K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of a claim on his car insurance policy.
background
On 26 June 2018, Mr M and his wife were involved in a serious accident that resulted in the 
total loss of his car.
Zurich valued  Mr Ms car and made  him a final settlement offer of £10,064. Mr M said that 
wasnt a fair amount. He said Zurichs valuation method was flawed and that they hadnt  
acted in accordance  with their policy terms. Mr M also complained about Zurichs poor 
service, in particular their claims handling  process.  He also said they lacked  compassion  and 
client care during his dealings with them. Zurich accepted there  were  service failings so they 
offered him £400 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience  he experienced.
Mr M remained unhappy so he complained  to our service. One of our investigators looked  
into the complaint.  She said that Zurichs valuation was fair and that their compensation for 
the poor service  was reasonable. As Mr M didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr M, but Im not going to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr M has made a number  of very detailed points and submissions,  and Ive 
considered all those  carefully. I am also aware of the detrimental affects the accident had on 
Mr M and his wife, and their personal  circumstances.  But, in this decision, I will focus  on 
what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if Zurich have dealt with Mr M in a 
fair and reasonable way, and in line with the policy. 
poor service
Mr M felt that the claims process should have been  better and he should  have been better 
supported throughout. He said: the claims process and next steps werent explained; a 
courtesy car wasnt provided  until a day after the accident; the personal  injury lawyers 
should have been instructed by Zurich  on the day of the accident, but that didnt happen until 
some weeks  after;  they sent him the settlement money by cheque which caused him 
inconvenience and delay and that he had asked for, and been told, it would be by bank 
transfer; and during  some calls he had with Zurichs staff, there was a lack of compassion 
towards him.
Unfortunately, the relevant calls between Mr M and Zurich in which he said they lacked 
compassion werent recorded. So Im unable to make a finding on this point. 
I can see that under the policy Mr M would have only been entitled to a small hatchback 
courtesy car during the period his car was being repaired by one of Zurichs approved  
repairs. The policy  specifically says a car wouldnt be offered in the event of a total loss. So 
Mr M wasnt entitled to a courtesy  car. But Zurich  did provide him with a like for like car a day 
after the accident and I think that was reasonable. The courtesy  car was also extended at 
Ref: DRN03712892various intervals. Mr M was waiting on the settlement  payment  to use towards the new car 
he wanted to buy. And when he told Zurich that by sending him a cheque delays would be 
caused because  he would  have to bank  it and wait for it to clear, Zurich  immediately offered 
to extend the courtesy car until the cheque cleared and was available  to him. I think that was 
reasonable.
In relation to the other service complaints, Zurich did accept  that things should have been 
dealt with better and they apologised.  They  also offered £400 compensation to address  
those shortcomings.  I think  that amount was reasonable and its in line with the kind of 
compensation our service  awards  for complaints of similar seriousness. So I wont  be asking  
Zurich to do anything  else.
valuation of the car
In valuing Mr Ms cars pre-accident market value,  Zurich used the industry  accepted method 
of considering a number  of trade  guides.  Two of the guides returned valuations  for Mr Ms 
car. Zurich initially offered  £9,340,  which was the average of the two guides. But Zurichs 
engineer increased  the valuation to £9,630. But Mr M wasnt happy  with that and he sent 
Zurich a number  of sales adverts of cars similar  to his. After  considering  those adverts 
Zurich found that they were on average 4.5%  higher than the valuations given by one of the 
trade guides. So Zurich increased their settlement offer to Mr M by 4.5%. Their final offer 
was £10,064.
Mr M didnt  think  the final offer was fair or accurate. He said he bought  a similar car for 
£15,000. His replacement  car was a year newer and had 60,000 fewer miles, yet it still 
wasnt in as good a condition as his original car. One of the reasons was that it did less miles 
to the gallon  which was an indicator that its condition wasnt  as good.
Mr M said Zurichs desk top valuation couldnt be accurate as no physical  inspection  had 
been done, nor had the on board diagnostics (OBD) been accessed which  would have 
shown the immaculate condition his cars engine was in and that he only used the best fuel.
The market  value definition in the policy says:  the cost, in the reasonable opinion  of our 
motor engineer, of replacing your car with a car of the same make, model and pre-loss  or 
damage condition,  specification, mileage and age. Mr M said:  the policy didnt say the trade  
guides would be used to value the car; the trade guides were  based on auction prices; and 
the word condition  wasnt defined in the policy so the ordinary dictionary meaning should 
be used, which included  the working condition  of the engine.  Mr M said that Zurich  had to 
value his car in accordance with the policy terms and conditions and not in line with the 
industry accepted  practice of looking at trade guides.
The policy says that where the car is a total loss, Zurich must pay Mr M the pre-accident market 
value of it to be assessed  by an engineer. The policy gives  discretion  to the engineer  in valuing the 
car. The engineer  is considered to be an expert in this field. While it doesnt  say the trade  guides  
must be used, I think its reasonable for the engineer to consider them given  they are widely  used 
and accepted in the insurance and motor  trade  industries. The guides  are based on extensive 
nationwide research  of likely retail selling prices, theyre not based  on auction prices.  The engineer 
can look at other information,  as he did in this case when he took account of the adverts  Mr M 
provided, which resulted  in the engineer increasing the valuation. And by using the trade  guides  as 
their starting point, I think Zurich ensure they are being consistent and treating all their customers  
in the same way.
Ref: DRN03712893I can see that initially Zurich offered a settlement valuation  based on the average of two of 
the guides. Averaging out in this way is an industry  practice that we think  is fair. But Zurich 
increased that valuation to take into account the adverts Mr M provided. I think  that shows 
they looked at information  other  than the trade guides, which  was reasonable.
Valuing cars is not an exact science, and with used cars there  are no two cars that are 
identical. For example,  the car Mr M bought  was a year newer and had 60,000 fewer miles 
when compared  to his original car. The adverts he provided also had variants. And on the 
basis of what Mr M has told us about  the condition of his car, in particular the engine, as a 
result of the fuel he used  and the care he took with it, its unlikely that there  would be an 
identical used car in that condition, with the same mileage and condition. So I think the 
valuation method used by Zurich was fair and reasonable. And the valuation of Mr Ms car 
was based on it being in good condition, which I understand to be the best possible 
condition of a car for valuation purposes. So as Zurichs  valuation  essentially valued the car 
as being in showroom condition I don't think it needed to adjust that valuation  because 
Mr M had looked after its engine.
I should say that we find the guides  reliable and find them more persuasive  than the asking 
price for a car advertised.  The advertised asking price for a car is not necessarily the price  it 
sold for, nor is it necessarily the true market value. And often the advertised price may be 
inflated to allow for negotiation. I know Mr M has said that things have changed in the motor 
trade industry where  asking prices are now nearer to actual selling prices.  But I understand 
its still common practice for car dealerships to price cars in anticipation of there  being  a 
reduction after negotiation.
I feel the settlement  offer Zurich made  was fair and reasonable, in accordance  with their 
policy terms and conditions, and that they followed the industry accepted  valuation  method 
that our service expects.  Im therefore  not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0371289