K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Ms L complain  about  how Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  dealt with 
their joint account. 
background
Mrs M and Ms L said that they had a joint account.  Ms L got into financial difficulties, and 
applied for an Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA). Halifax has since closed the joint 
account, and applied a default onto Mrs Ms credit file. 
Mrs M said that she had moved home before the default was applied. I understand that 
Mrs M and Ms Ls previous home  had been  sold as part of resolving Ms Ls financial 
problems. Mrs M said that her share of the sale money was available throughout this time, 
so she couldve paid the debt to Halifax if it had asked her to. But it didnt. Mrs M said that 
she only found out about the default  when  she applied for a mortgage for a new home. And 
she said that she still didnt know if the account  had been closed. 
Although this complaint is brought with the agreement of Ms L, its primarily concerned  with 
how Mrs M has been treated by Halifax. 
Mrs M told us that she got a letter from Halifax in May, which asked her to bring the joint 
account back within its agreed lending limits. There was an overdraft of £4,000 on the 
account, but the debt was a little more than £200 over that limit. This letter was sent to Mrs 
Ms old address. Shed already moved,  but had mail forwarding in place.
Mrs M gave  Halifax  her new address  in August. She asked about the joint account  then.  She 
said that at that time she was told to wait to be contacted about the debt. But the debt had 
already been defaulted,  so it was already affecting her credit file. Mrs M didnt find this out 
until she applied for a mortgage,  and was told she wouldnt be able to get one with a recent  
large default on her credit  file.
Mrs M said that Halifax had held her responsible for the whole debt, when it shouldve asked 
Ms L for some of the money. Mrs M showed us a breakdown of how Ms Ls assets  were  
divided between her creditors,  which appears to show that Halifax was allocated £772.86 
towards this debt. 
Mrs M said that she had paid the debt, although  shed faced some further difficulties in doing  
so, because Halifax hadnt updated  her address, and had told her that she couldnt make 
payments. 
Mrs M thought that it was wrong for Halifax to have placed the default on her account without 
telling her. She said that her mortgage had fallen through  because  of these problems, and 
provided confirmation of that from her mortgage broker. She told us that shed received £250 
for the wrong  information  that Halifax had given her, and for the problems making payments 
onto the debt. But she wanted us to look at everything that had gone  wrong,  to see if we 
could stop this from happening to other  people in future. 
Halifax said that it had sent a formal  demand  notice on 19 June 2018, about  the overdraft on 
the joint account, to the address it held for Mrs M. It showed us that letter,  and confirmed 
that Mrs M hadnt asked  Halifax to update  her address at that time.
Ref: DRN02933982The letter Halifax  sent asked  Mrs M to pay the amount  that the overdraft was over its limit by 
3 July to avoid further action. And it said that if Mrs M didnt pay, then after two months, 
Halifax would close this account and pass it to Halifaxs recoveries team.  Halifax  said it had 
written to Ms L in the same terms.
Halifax was then notified of Ms Ls IVA, so it arranged to close this account on 23 July and 
registered a default on Mrs Ms credit  file. 
Halifax accepted  that it gave Mrs M wrong advice when she came  into branch on 28 August. 
This account was already closed by then. Halifax said that she shouldve  been told that, and 
told about the default. 
Halifax said that it understood  Mrs M had been  in a position to pay the debt when the default  
was registered.  And it appreciated  that she hadnt been aware of the default before, because  
of a house move. So it wrote to Mrs M on 15 November, saying that it agreed to remove the 
default if Mrs M paid the debt within the next 60 days. Mrs M made that payment. And 
Halifax has shown us details of how this account  now shows  with credit reference  agencies, 
which demonstrate  that it has done  what it offered to do.
At first, our adjudicator upheld this complaint.  She thought that if Halifax had claimed the 
money from Ms Ls insolvency practitioner, then the default wouldnt have been registered.  
And she also said that Halifax had failed to advise Mrs M of the default and the appropriate 
next steps. Our adjudicator thought  Mrs M had faced a considerable loss while  going  
through her mortgage application. So our adjudicator thought that Halifax should pay Mrs M 
and Ms L a further  £200 in compensation. 
But then Halifax sent in more evidence, including call recordings,  and further  arguments.  
Halifax told us that it thinks  that closing this account was definitely  the right thing to do. It 
said that it had been in touch with both account holders earlier in the year,  to discuss 
problems on the account. And it had sent online  statements and messages notifying Mrs M 
of several items being refused because of insufficient funds. Halifax  said that it was sending 
these messages and statements online, because Mrs M had asked to receive her 
statements in this way. Halifax  said that Mrs M had also accepted,  when talking to Halifax,  
that she was responsible  for not having  updated her address details earlier. 
Halifax has also said that it hasnt  received  the payment from the insolvency practitioner.  It 
will update  Mrs M about this if it does receive that in future.
Our adjudicator then changed her mind.  She said that she was satisfied that Halifax  had 
written to Mrs M about  the debt, and told her that the account would be closed. Mrs M hadnt 
updated her address at that time. Our adjudicator thought that if Mrs M had been properly 
advised during  her branch  visit in August, then she wouldve been aware that there was a 
default registered against her before her mortgage application was made. But our 
adjudicator said that Halifax  had paid a total of £250 to Mrs M to make up for this. And she 
said that she thought that Halifax had followed the right process  when it said that it would 
default Mrs M and Ms Ls account. She said that the deadline  for doing this set out in 
Halifaxs letter had already run out by the time that Mrs M spoke  to the branch, at the end of 
August. And any payment  made out of the IVA wouldnt have stopped this account from 
closing. 
Our adjudicator said that shed reconsidered,  and now thought that Halifax had done enough 
to make up for what had gone wrong here. 
Ref: DRN02933983Mrs M didnt  agree with that. She said that she had mail redirection in place, but she hadnt  
received the default information  from Halifax. Mrs M said that it wasnt fair to put a default on 
someones credit file without speaking  to them. And she said that it was disgraceful that 
Halifax hadnt claimed the money it was owed  from the IVA. That was a lot of money for her. 
She said that she felt very let down by our service.  
Our adjudicator explained that our service doesnt take sides in resolving an issue,  we look 
to assess whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. And thats what  
she had done  here.  She said that letters about problems on the account  had been  sent to 
the address that Halifax held for Mrs M and Ms L, and they werent returned. So our 
adjudicator said that Halifax  didnt know Mrs M was no longer at the old address. And the 
default had now been removed. 
Our adjudicator said that Halifax doesnt chase  the money owed from an IVA, its the 
responsibility of the insolvency  practitioner  to make those payments. And Halifax  had told us 
that this hadnt  been  paid. Our adjudicator  said that if Mrs M had evidence that it had been 
paid, she should  let us know. 
Our adjudicator said that as Mrs M (on behalf  of both herself  and Ms L) hadnt  agreed with 
her, the case would now be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  This case  then 
came to me.
Mrs M said that she has since sought  further advice on a mortgage, and has been advised 
that as a default was registered  in the last two years, this was still likely to cause a problem 
with her credit score, even thought it had now been rectified  and paid in full. Mrs M said that 
she was concerned that she would now not be able to apply for a mortgage again.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Halifax did write to Mrs M and Ms L about  issues on their joint account before  it was 
defaulted. I can see that a letter was sent in May 2018 to each of them, asking  them to bring 
the account back within the agreed overdraft lending limits. Mrs M says that she did get this 
letter, but she doesnt seem to have made  a payment at that time. 
Another letter was sent on 19 June, saying  that the account would be defaulted and closed  if 
this payment wasnt made by early July. 
I dont know why Mrs M didnt get the second of these two letters,  warning of the risk that 
this debt would be defaulted. We know she had moved, and hadnt yet updated  her address, 
but Mrs M has told us she had mail redirection in place. But I do think  that the letter which  
warned Mrs M of upcoming account  closure was sent to the right address. So I dont think 
that it would  be Halifaxs fault if that letter wasnt received. 
Mrs M said that she thought Halifax shouldve spoken to her before it put a default on her 
credit file. But I dont agree with that. I think its enough that Halifax  wrote to Mrs M to warn  
her. I dont  think it also had to speak to either account holder in person, before  the account  
could be defaulted.
Ref: DRN02933984Halifax gave Mrs M and Ms L a deadline of two months from the issue of the 19 June letter, 
then it said the account would close. 
The account  was in fact closed and defaulted  much earlier  than this, when  Halifax  
discovered that Ms L had entered into an IVA. I think that it mightve been better if Halifax  
hadnt taken action which affected Mrs Ms credit file, significantly earlier than it said it would. 
But I note that the deadline for bringing the account back within  agreed lending  had already 
passed, when  Halifax took this step.  And, as Mrs M didnt contact Halifax until the end of 
August, it wouldnt have made any difference in this case if the default had been put on at 
the time Halifax originally  suggested. This account  would still have been  defaulted  by the 
time Mrs M spoke to the branch. 
When Mrs M spoke  to the branch, she was given incorrect  advice about the status of her 
account, and what to do. I think that Mrs Ms issues couldve been resolved at this point if 
Mrs M had been given correct advice then, and if Halifax had taken the steps  then that its 
taken now. I dont think that there was, in fact, any need for her to have been put in the 
position of making  an application for a mortgage,  while this default  was still on her credit file. 
I think, in the circumstances  of this case, that Halifax was right to remove  this default.  The 
point of warning a customer about  a default is to give that person  a last chance  to pay off the 
debt. Mrs M has told us she just didnt get the letter about this, so she didnt have that 
chance. And she has, in my view, convincingly  explained why she wouldve wanted to do 
that, and wouldve been able to do so. Although I dont  think  that this default was necessarily 
registered because  of anything Halifax did wrong, I do think  that it produced an unfair 
outcome in this case for Mrs M, and Im pleased to see that Halifax has already taken steps  
to put that right. 
Ive seen Mrs Ms credit score history, and I think that while this default was showing on her 
credit file, that is likely  to have been why she couldnt get a mortgage.  But Mrs M has also 
told us that shes  still unable to get a mortgage  now. I dont think  this is still likely to be 
because of the default that Halifax recorded  on Mrs Ms credit  file. I understand that this 
default hasnt  just been paid, its been removed altogether.  It looks  to me, from the history  of 
her credit score, as if her credit  score did then noticeably improve.  So I think  if there is still a 
problem now which means  that Mrs M is continuing  to have difficulty  finding  lending, then 
thats not likely to be as a result of this default.  So I dont think  that Halifax has to do 
anything more, because  of that. 
I know that Mrs M thinks that Halifax shouldve taken some of the money to pay off this debt 
from Ms Ls IVA. Halifax has also pointed out that its up to Ms Ls insolvency practitioner to 
make payments to Ms Ls creditors, not up to the creditors, like Halifax,  to claim those. But I 
think that the most important point here is that this overdraft  debt was jointly  held by Mrs M 
and Ms L. That means that Halifax can claim the whole sum from Mrs M. Its not wrong or 
unfair for Halifax to do this because that was the contractual basis on which the account 
operated. 
I do think that Halifax has made some mistakes  in this case. I think  it defaulted this debt a 
little early. But I dont  think that actually had any impact on Mrs M, on the facts  of this 
complaint as I understand them. I think that Mrs M was given wrong advice  in branch, which  
meant that this default was not removed promptly or cleared before Mrs Ms mortgage  
application was made. That clearly did affect Mrs M. But I think  that the £250 in 
Ref: DRN02933985compensation which Halifax tells us it has paid Mrs M provides a fair and reasonable 
resolution for that. 
Ive considered this case carefully, and I dont think that Halifax has to do more  now than it 
has done. Because it took the required steps  to put things right before Mrs M and Ms L 
complained to us, I dont  think  that this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0293398