K821x#15complaint
Mr R says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (PDL  Finance)  irresponsibly lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about 3 loans PDL Finance provided to Mr R between  June 2014 and 
August 2014.  Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 17/06/2014 04/07/2014 1 £250.00 £337.50
2 20/07/2014 01/08/2014 1 £100.00 £130.00
3 05/08/2014 Outstanding 2 £600.00 £480.00
Mr R complained that PDL Finance failed to carry out affordability  assessments. If it had 
done, he says it would  have seen the loans were unaffordable and that he was dependent 
on payday loans.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought  loan 3 shouldnt  have been 
given. PDL Finance  disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be 
looked at again. It added it could  not remove the adverse information  from Mr Rs file as it 
had not made any entries on his credit file. At this point,  I should say that our adjudicator had 
only asked PDL Finance  to remove any adverse  information it had recorded  there.  It also 
commented that our adjudicator had not considered the case properly.
None of the parties commented on loans 1 and 2 being rejected, so in this decision,  I only 
need to look at loan 3. However, I will look at all the loans generally and the full loan history 
to assess the case  fairly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL Finance  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL Finance should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
Ref: DRN06859642the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL Finance was required to 
establish whether  Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained  and I agree with our adjudicator - a proportionate check for 
loan 3 would  most  likely have shown that the highest monthly repayment was a significant 
proportion  around 40% - of Mr Rs declared income of £1,200.  So there was a significant  
risk he wouldnt have  been able to meet his existing commitments from his income without 
having to borrow  again or perhaps, without the account being defaulted. In my view,  Mr R 
was unlikely to be able to sustain loan 3. So I dont think PDL Finance should have given 
loan 3 to Mr R.
So  like our adjudicator - Im also upholding the complaint about loan 3 and PDL Finance 
should put things right.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
I understand PDL Finance  Limited has sold the outstanding debt. PDL Finance Limited 
should buy it back if able to do so and then take the following steps.  If they are not able to 
buy the debt back  then PDL Finance Limited  should liaise  with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results  outlined  below.
A) PDL Finance Limited should  add together  the total of the repayments  made  by Mr R 
towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding  balance, not 
including anything PDL Finance Limited has already refunded.
Ref: DRN06859643B) PDL Finance Limited should  calculate  8% per year simple interest* on the individual  
payments made by Mr R which were  considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr 
R originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) PDL Finance Limited should  remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  
on any upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mr R as though  they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr R having 
made overpayments  then PDL Finance Limited should refund these overpayments  with 8% 
per year simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. PDL Finance  Limited  should  then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr R. However if there is still an outstanding 
balance then PDL Finance Limited  should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr 
R. PDL Finance Limited  shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of the principal it 
has already written-off.
E) PDL Finance Limited should  remove any adverse information it has recorded  on Mr 
Rs credit  file in relation  to loan 3. If PDL Finance Limited has sold any of the loans,  it should  
ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to deduct  tax from this interest. PDL 
Finance Limited  should give Mr R a certificate  showing  how much tax it has deducted, if he 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
should put things right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0685964