K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. The PPI was added to the account  sometime after Mrs C took out the store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mrs C 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs C says it wasnt clear the PPI was optional.  Ive considered what shes said but Ive 
also looked at the other evidence available to come to a decision on what  I think  is more  
likely to have happened. The PPI was taken over the phone  some months after the store  
card account had been set up. Unfortunately due to the length  of time thats passed 
there is no longer  a call recording for me to listen to  so I cant  say what exactly was 
discussed at the time. But as Mrs C already had the credit in place I think  she wouldve 
known the PPI was an optional extra and not a condition of having the store  card. And 
without any evidence  to persuade  me otherwise, I think  its unlikely  FICL  wouldve added 
the PPI to her account without her permission. So based  on the evidence  Ive seen and 
without any stronger  evidence to the contrary,  I think FICL made it clear that Mrs C didnt  
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs C says the policy was unnecessary and unsuitable for her as she was entitled to 
generous sick pay from her employer. Upon  a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 
15% of Mrs Cs outstanding monthly  balance for up to 12 months  and in addition  to her 
sick pay. So these  funds couldve been  used for other expenses. And Mrs C told us that 
her sick pay reduced  to half after the initial  six months,  so I think  the PPI wouldve been  
especially useful if she was out of work for more  than six months.
Ref: DRN01972302my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019. 
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0197230