K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
Budgetcard. Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So 
Ill refer to Allianz as the seller to keep  things simple. Mr H says Allianz mis-sold him the PPI 
policy on his Budgetcard.  
Mr H bought the policy in 1992 at the same  time as taking out the card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Hs credit agreement. In it, there was a separate  section relating to 
PPI. I can see the box requesting cover has been  ticked and Mr Hs name and date of birth 
have been placed in the PPI section to confirm the cover  was for him. Hes then signed  this 
form. So with all Ive seen, I think Allianz  made it clear  Mr H had a choice about  taking  the 
PPI, and he chose  to take it, knowing  he didnt  have to.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Mr H so it didnt 
have to check it was right for him. But it did have to give him enough clear information so he 
could decide if he wanted to take it. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Mr H was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear  to have been affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Based on what I know about Mr Hs circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful to him. Mr H has said he wouldve been entitled to some sick pay from his employer at 
the time,  and that he didnt have any other means  available to help his meet  his repayments 
should he find himself  out of work  unexpectedly. This policy couldve paid out 15% of his 
monthly balance  on top of any sick pay until his balance was repaid  if he was off work due to 
accident or sickness. It wouldve paid the same if he was unable to work because of 
unemployment. So I think he couldve found  the policy to be useful. 
With this in mind, I dont think better information  wouldve  stopped him buying  it. And I dont 
think that Mr H has lost out as a result of anything Allianz mightve done wrong. 
Ref: DRN01092412my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0109241