K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Handepay Ltd mis-sold  an agreement for the hire of a card payment 
terminal for his business.
background
Mr R met with a representative  of Handepay  in February 2018. He says he signed a largely  
blank hire agreement  with a third party  provider  and was told that this would be filled in with 
the terminal type and minimum term and cost at a later point. He also expected a payment 
for the costs of him switching from a different provider. 
Mr R says he told the representative he was in a partnership.  But the agreement was never  
signed by his business partner who was away at the time (and who has since  passed away).  
And he says the bank  book details he provided  as part of the application for the partnership  
were fraudulently altered to show he was only a sole trader. As he does not believe the 
agreement reflects what he wanted, has never received a terminal and the agreement for the 
business is not valid he says he should not be responsible for any hire or termination  
payments.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-Handepay said Mr R would have  been given a copy of the agreement he signed and 
Mr R had not been able to provide a copy of an incomplete version. The agreement  
states that Mr R was signing to confirm  that the terms  and termination policy  had 
been explained to him and all his questions were answered. 
-There were  conflicting  accounts  of the discussion  between Mr R and the 
representative from Handepay. She did not think it reasonable to find that the terms 
of the agreement were to be negotiated  after an incomplete form was signed.
-The representative had said that there had been  discussions  about  different options 
but that Mr R had decided on a countertop terminal as it was the cheapest  option.
-He was later offered  the option of a mobile  terminal in April 2018 but had declined 
this on the basis  of the cost and this was consistent  with what  the representative had 
said about the meeting. Mr R then reported  he was in financial difficulty  and wanted 
to cancel the agreement.
-Handepay said that the cheque  to cover the costs of switching would only be sent 
when the new terminal had been activated and the old contract ended. Mr R had 
refused to accept  the terminal.
-Mr R had provided two copies of a paying in book page  for the partnership  bank 
account. The original  he says had his name and that of his partner included. The one 
that Handepay has used as evidence  for his bank details only had the trading name 
and the two partners names  had been  deleted and the words VOID THIS CHQ 
handwritten in that space.
-She did not think that this demonstrated  fraudulent activity. She also noted that in 
July 2018 Mr R had discussed with Handepay  whether his then partner could be 
added to the agreement. Documentation was sent out to enable  this but was not 
returned either by Mr R or his partner. She did not think it was fair to suggest that this 
was at Handepays instigation to correct  an error  as the request  had come  from Mr R.
-She could not see that Mr R had been  adversely affected  by the agreement not being 
set up for the partnership especially  as he had the opportunity  to change it.
-Given the financial difficulties he had described she recommended he contact the 
third party  provider  to discuss  his options.
Ref: DRN09749082Mr R is now represented in this complaint.  His representative emphasised  Mr Rs allegation 
that Handepay committed fraud to bypass the application  process.  And she said she did not 
think that this had been understood  and could explain this to the person reviewing the 
complaint. She did not think that the impact of what happened  for Mr R was relevant here.  
He just did not want to continue  with a business  that operated in this manner.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did not need to speak  to the representative  about this complaint as I understand the points 
that are being made in response  to the view of our investigator.
I am struggling to see why Mr R would  have signed  a largely  blank agreement  for his 
business. If the terms of the agreement were still being negotiated then I see no reason for 
him to commit to this agreement until these were clear. And thats especially as on his 
account he considered that the agreement would not be valid unless his business partner 
signed it. I think it reasonable  to expect him to review the terms of any agreement  for the 
business carefully and the information he says was missing was fundamental to the contract 
 being the terminal model,  hire term and amount. 
Mr R is effectively saying that the extent  of the fraud by Handepay was much more  than 
altering a paying in book. He says that it filled the form in incorrectly stating  that he was a 
sole trader. Even if I was to accept that the key financial terms of the contract  were  not 
settled I see no reason why he would not have reasonably ensured that the business details 
including his partner  were documented especially if as he says he provided details of a bank 
account book  in both partners names.
I note that after he initially complained  about the terms of the agreement a solicitor then 
wrote on his behalf to the third party hire business on 24 April 2018.  Notably that letter made  
no mention of the agreement not including his business partner. And as the investigator says 
Handepays contact  notes state  that in July 2018 he asked whether  that partner could be 
added to the agreement.  The notes from Handepay  also record that it only became aware  of 
the dispute regarding whether the other  partner should have signed in December 2018 and 
about the altered bank book after that.
This service provides informal dispute  resolution,  we are not a court and we are not going  to 
be deciding  whether a criminal offence has been  committed. If Mr R thinks that it has then 
this is something he can decide to report  to the authorities.  
Im looking  at what is most likely and Im afraid that Im not persuaded that Mr R only signed 
an incomplete contract as he says for the reasons I gave  above. I dont think that the paying 
in book makes a difference to the outcome even if I could fairly  resolve  how and when that 
was altered. I cant see that in any event this was to Mr Rs disadvantage given the nature of 
his application  as a sole trader. It does though mean  that Handepay has nothing  to show 
that there  is an agreement other than with Mr R. But it is not claiming as I understand it that 
it ever sold an agreement  to a partnership. It did seem prepared later on to change  the 
agreement into the partners names  to reflect what Mr R said he wanted.
I dont doubt that there were discussions with Mr R about the costs and terms of the terminal  
hire both before and after the agreement was signed.  Handepay  offered to make later 
Ref: DRN09749083changes, even though  in my view Mr R was fairly bound by what  he had signed.  I dont see 
any evidence that it accepted it had made  a mistake. These  revised terms were  still not 
acceptable to him. Hes said he did not accept  delivery of the terminal.  But there  were  no 
cancellation rights  and in my view he was still fairly  due to make the payments in the 
contract to the third party.  And I accept  that he would not be compensated for changing 
provider unless he could  show  hed done so.
In my view Mr R freely entered  into the agreement as a sole trader  and bears the 
responsibility for it. I do not find that the agreement was mis-sold.  He would need to speak to 
the third party  hire company about  his payment difficulties.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0974908