K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms H bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below:
 I think Bank of Scotland made Ms H aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because  Ms Hs credit card application  form was completed 
to show that she wanted  the cover. I note there were other  forms of cover on the 
application form that Ms H also chose  to take.
Ms H says she thinks the form was completed  in a Bank of Scotland  branch, and that 
she doesnt remember PPI being discussed. She also says she didnt make  a claim on 
the policy when  she was experiencing a period of financial difficulty, which  
demonstrates she didnt know she had the cover.  Ive noted everything Ms H has said.
But from what Ive seen,  I cant safely say that Ms H applied  for her credit card with 
assistance from a bank adviser. And even if she did, I think the application form she 
signed was clear enough to make her aware  she had a choice about buying  the PPI. 
The period  of financial difficulty Ms H has told me about occurred a few years  after she 
took out the credit card. So I think its possible she might have forgotten shed taken 
out the PPI  which is understandable. 
Overall, without anything  else to support what Ms H has told me, I dont think  it would 
be fair or reasonable  for me to say that Bank  of Scotland didnt make it clear  that the 
PPI was optional.
 Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. That means  Bank  of Scotland didnt  have to ask about  any other 
means Ms H mightve had to cover her credit card repayments.
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it should have been. But its unlikely  Ms H would have been affected by any of the 
Ref: DRN05499392main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms H about  that. Because  Bank  of Scotland didnt 
tell Ms H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms H any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0549939