K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say they were mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) when they took 
out a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with Santander UK Plc (Santander), at the 
time trading as Alliance & Leicester, in October 2000.The  PPI was a stand-alone policy that 
was to be used  with a mortgage that completed in December 2000.
background
Mr and Mrs B applied  for the PPI at a meeting  with Santanders representative. The policy 
only covered Mr B.
Mr and Mrs B say they were told if they bought PPI it would increase their chances  of being 
approved for the mortgage. Mr and Mrs B also say the PPI wasnt suitable their financial and 
work circumstances.  In particular, Mr B says he was about  to start work overseas and wasnt  
told this would prevent  him from making a successful claim on the policy.  
The initial cost of the PPI was £90.00 per month, covering Mr and Mrs Bs monthly mortgage 
payments of around  £1800.00. It would  pay out if Mr B wasnt  able to work  due to accident or 
sickness, or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because it looked as if Santander  had 
failed to consider  the fact the Mr B had accepted an offer of work overseas that meant hed 
be starting his new job in January 2001.  Because of the policy  terms, Mr B wouldnt be 
eligible to make a claim on the policy.
Santander disagreed with our adjudicators finding, saying Mr and Mrs B had not made it 
aware that he would  be moving overseas for his job. 
Following our adjudicators finding, Mr and Mrs B have provided  us with evidence  of his job 
offer. 
In my provisional decision dated13 September 2019, I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint.  I set out an extract below:
Ive seen  that Mr and Mrs B were quoted for PPI to go with their mortgage, and received 
their mortgage offer including  PPI, on the same day - 16 October 2000. Obviously Ive no 
way of knowing what may or may not have been  said at the meeting. There  are no records 
of what was said at the meeting, given that the sale happened so many  years ago. So I have  
to make my finding based on what I think is likely to have happened at the time.  From  what  
Ive seen so far, I havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was presented as 
something that Mr and Mrs B had to take to get the mortgage they wanted. I should  add that 
being told that its a good idea to have PPI  which often happens when PPI is discussed   
is quite different from someone being  told that they have to or must take out PPI.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us they made Santanders  representative aware that Mr B would 
shortly be moving overseas for his work.  Santander has no record of that and theres  no 
reference of their being about to move  overseas  in the sale documentation. And from what  
Ive seen Santander didnt have a record to show that Mr and Mrs B had moved  overseas, 
such as a new contact  address.
 
Ref: DRN00023142Mr B has given  us a copy of his job offer letter, dated 22 October  2000   that is, after the 
date of the meeting when he decided to take the policy. I can appreciate  that Mr and Mrs B 
may have  been  aware at this point  of at least the possibility  that they would be moving 
overseas. So its something they could have mentioned at the time if theyd wanted to. And it 
was of course open to them to cancel the policy once Mr B had received his job offer.
 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I think Mr and Mrs B made  a definite decision to buy the PPI 
cover. And so far I dont  think theres any evidence or information that suggests to me they 
took steps to make  Santander aware  that Mr B could soon be moving overseas for his job. 
Having considered Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time  and what  they told Santander 
when they applied for the policy  in all other respects it doesnt look like they would have 
been adversely  affected by the main policy terms and exclusions.  
Mr B has told us about his work benefits,  as well as having life insurance and private health 
insurance. He also told us he had a significant level of savings. In the event of a successful  
claim, the PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months and in addition  to Mr Bs sick pay 
benefits and savings. So I think he most  likely would have regarded the policy  as being 
useful for him, avoiding  the necessity of depleting  savings which had been set aside for 
future use.
 
I can see its possible there  may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold but, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs B would still have decided to 
buy the policy even  if theyd received more information about  the policy.  And I havent  seen 
anything to make me think that the policy premiums  were too expensive  for them.  
I also see that Mr and Mrs B have already received a refund  of commission and profit share 
from Santander in relation  to the cost of the PPI so I dont need  to consider that aspect of 
their complaint any further.  
As things  currently stand, I dont think the PPI cover was mis-sold.
Although Mr and Mrs B and Santander  confirmed receiving a copy  of my provisional  
decision, neither  has provided us with any further information or evidence. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
As none of the parties have given me any further  information or evidence to consider about 
the possible mis-sale of the PPI, I wont be changing the conclusion I reached  in my 
provisional decision. 
It follows that I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN00023143my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0002314