K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The credit agreement  completed at the time, which Mr S signed, had a separate  box for 
the PPI, in which Mr S needed to tick a box and sign separately to confirm if he wished to 
take out the PPI  and the box was ticked and signed.  And I havent seen enough other  
evidence to make me think  Bank of Scotland didnt  give Mr S a choice. So overall I think 
its most likely that Bank of Scotland made  it clear  that Mr S didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why he cant  remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said  including what  hes said about his sick pay 
entitlement, but I still think he wouldve  thought  the policy could be useful,  and Im not 
persuaded this would have changed his mind.  So for this reason, and the reasons  explained 
above, these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr S paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr S back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Ref: DRN06886732my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0688673