K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Coventry Building  Society mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms S bought the policy  in 1993 at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms S for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £480 a month towards Ms Ss mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £28.80  a month.  
At the time,  Ms S was employed  as a lecturer. She has told us she was entitled to full sick 
pay, but was unsure how long for, and savings worth six months  salary.  Ms S has said she 
was in good health. 
Coventry Building Society has sent us screenshots  to show  that the mortgage account  
closed in 1997. 
Ms Ss representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ss representative says:
Coventry Building Society  failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the 
time. In those circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for 
businesses on handling PPI complaints under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed  
Ms S wouldnt have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ss 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Coventry Building 
Society should have  told Ms S about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Coventry Building Society 
should have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover  to 
Ms S and the impact they would  have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN01097562Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ss. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1997 when Ms S remortgaged with another lender 
(the policy continued,  covering that and subsequent mortgages, until it was cancelled in 
2007). That means  the unfair  relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN01097563I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Coventry Building  Society at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the 
ABI Code and these other publications  into account  when deciding,  what is in my opinion,  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ss case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Coventry Building Society was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as 
if they were guidance  when  considering Ms Ss complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Coventry Building Society  gave advice, whether  it advised  Ms S with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, 
given her needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Coventry Building  Society  gave  Ms S sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms S and 
Coventry Building Society,  Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN01097564did Ms S know she had a choice?
Coventry Building Society had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
While there  is limited  evidence of exactly how Ms Ss PPI was sold, Ive seen  samples of 
mortgage and PPI application  documents in use by Coventry Building Society at the time. I 
think its likely that similar documents  wouldve been used when PPI was sold to Ms S. 
A section  on the mortgage application  briefly  described the PPI as scheme  which  will help 
to cover your mortgage related payments if you are unable to work due to accident,  sickness  
or unemployment and gave yes and no boxes  to be ticked to indicate if Ms S wanted the 
PPI. A separate PPI application would also have been completed.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms S knew  the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Coventry Building Society provide advice?
Both Coventry Building Society and Ms S agree  that advice was provided  during this sale.  
This means  Coventry Building Society  had to advise  Ms S with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Coventry Building  Society  took to establish  whether the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Ms S. It seems  Ms S cant remember clearly what happened 
and there  is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy.  This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited information 
about Ms Ss financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence to show the adviser  
took steps to establish whether Ms S would have been caught by the significant exclusions 
and limitations which  might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Coventry  Building  Society considered whether Ms S had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Coventry Building Society did all it 
should have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Ms S given her 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Coventry  Building Society advised with reasonable 
care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Coventry Building  Society  did all it should have done to make sure 
the policy was suitable for Ms S, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms S met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Ms S had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Ms Ss ability  to continue  to meet 
her mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Ms S was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for sick pay and savings] she says 
she would have  been entitled to.
Ref: DRN01097565-Ms S had a need for the policy  seems  likely  Ms Ss finances would be put under 
strain if she were  not working   even allowing for the sick pay and savings she had 
available to her. The policy would have  helped Ms S manage the consequences 
were she unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms S. There was 
nothing about  Ms Ss employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Ms S be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Ms Ss 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to her 
home and the potential  consequences should  Ms S be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Coventry  Building  Society  gave Ms S 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable her to understand 
what Coventry Building Society was recommending to her and make an informed  decision  
about whether  to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms S was given a broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms S was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms S would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. 
The sample mortgage application  also mentioned this, as Ive set out above.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Coventry  Building  Society  
gave sufficient information about  the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Ms S agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms S Im not persuaded Coventry 
Building Society did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in 
a way that was fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded  Coventry Building Society gave 
Ms S all of the information she needed about the policy  to make an informed  decision about  
whether to follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ss representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN01097566PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ss representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms S about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ss representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms S has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Coventry  Building Society ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Coventry Building Societys shortcomings  have  on Ms S? To what 
extent did Ms S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Coventry Building  Society didnt do all it should have done when it sold this 
policy to Ms S. So, I have  gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Ms S suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Ms S would have  still taken out the policy, had Coventry Building Society done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Coventry Building  Society  took the steps it should have done to 
establish whether  the policy it recommended was suitable for Ms S, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms S has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Coventry Building Society  had 
explained things  properly, Ms S would have acted  differently, or whether  she would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Ms S says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Coventry  Building Society  advised  her that there  
was a suitable product she could buy that would protect her mortgage payments in the event 
Ref: DRN01097567she was unable to work  because  of accident, sickness  and unemployment, she concluded  
she wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete information, 
meaning what she thought she was getting is not exactly  what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Ss circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms S knew she would  have to pay something 
for the policy, theres insufficient evidence to show that Coventry Building Society told her 
the exact premium  at the point Ms S applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely 
Ms S would  have been told the cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy  for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with her expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible she might have  raised  that with Coventry Building Society at the time or 
reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms S would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Coventry Building Society made clear exactly  what Ms S 
would get back  in return in the event she made  a successful  claim. But I think its unlikely 
Ms Ss expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet her mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  defect, infirmity or 
recurring disease for which  you received  treatment or advice during the 12 months  
immediately preceding the start date or which recurs during the first 12 months;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms S pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms S from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ms S was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Ms S wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms S didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms S would have 
Ref: DRN01097568expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Ms S needed to be totally unable  to do her normal  job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what she would have  
expected to make a claim. After  all, the mortgage  application form says the policy  provides 
cover if you are unable to work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment  So it seems  
unlikely she would have  thought shed  be able to make a successful claim if she was still 
working.
Coventry Building Society may not have told Ms S that any claim she made  would be limited 
to a 12-month period. This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped  
for  but she had limited other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms S would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms S be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Ms Ss sick pay or savings for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms S would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Ms S was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms S 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms S would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms S 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN01097569proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Coventry  Building  Society should  pay Ms S compensation, as 
that would  put her in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Ms S thinks  Coventry Building Society misrepresented the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI.  While  I accept  there is a possibility a court might 
conclude some of Coventry Building Societys statements misrepresented  the contract, in my 
opinion the reason why Coventry  Building  Society  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not 
because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  but because the overall 
information Coventry Building Society gave Ms S, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  
the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1993  when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ss representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Coventry Building Society negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Ms S and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Coventry Building Society had been in 
breach of its duty of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what  I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Ms S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0109756