K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about delay  by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) in 
putting her SIPP into drawdown. This meant  she missed out on using all her income tax 
allowance for the relevant tax year.
Background
Mrs W said she made clear to HL that she wanted  to use her unused income tax allowance  
for the 2017/18  tax year of around £9,000. She therefore wanted to draw  down this amount 
from her SIPP  before  the tax year end. She felt there was enough time to do this but they 
waited to clear a very small transfer in and didnt meet the deadline. She had therefore lost 
the benefit of tax on £9,000 which at 20% was around £1,800. It then made  the payment of 
£9,000 in April 2018 which adversely affected  her tax position for that year. She felt the offer 
of about £100 for this was derisory. 
HL said it had processed her application in line with its normal approach and on the basis 
she had been  informed of. It said an income  payment could only be made  once all relevant 
transfers have  completed. As the transfer  in didnt complete until 29 March it was too late for 
the cut off point  for payment of 28 March. It said it had informed her of the process  in its 
letter of 21 March so there was no need to contact her further  at the time.  At the time it 
received the income request she had not made  a transfer instruction. When it later received  
the transfer forms there was no accompanying letter to refer to the drawdown  timing. It had 
accepted the valid instructions and there was no need to query them.  It didnt expect its 
transfer processing team to query what appeared to be valid instructions  when  they were  an 
execution only provider.  Mrs W was notified  all money would  remain in cash until all 
transfers in were complete. This was clear in their letter of 21 March and on the drawdown 
form, but she didnt  follow up. HL had never  confirmed an income  payment  would  be made 
in the 2017/18 tax year. It warned that a transfer  can take 10 days  but may take longer. It 
said it wasnt clear to them that she wanted to cancel her April 2018 income payment  but, 
offered to reverse this if she wished.  It offered  a payment of £100 by way of apology.
The adjudicator initially thought HL hadnt acted fairly but then changed  her view in the light 
of further information from HL. She said she needed to consider that HL had made  Mrs W 
aware of the process and that any transfers  needed to be completed before payment 
started. She thought their communication was clear  and the fact drawdown before the tax 
year end might be at risk. She felt this gave Mrs W time to raise  concerns had she wanted 
to. She also thought the transfer  had taken place in a timely manner as it was done within 8 
working days. She couldnt therefore  conclude that HL had caused any delay. She also 
didnt think there was any way the transfer couldve been done after drawdown started.
Mrs W didnt agree. She felt HL was hiding behind cleverly worded terms and conditions and 
felt her intentions and wishes were always clear.  She didnt think  it was reasonable to expect  
she should repeat her requirement at every  exchange.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint I need  to consider whether HL has done anything  wrong.  It 
seems to me the transfer in and the drawdown  requests were executed in a timely  manner.  I 
Ref: DRN04340612think this complaint now rests on what it was reasonable to expect HL to do in response to 
the communications sent by Mrs W. She believes she was very clear  about the need to have 
a first income payment of £9,000 within the 2017/18 tax year and not to allow  the transfer to 
delay this. She also points  out that HL said that if there are any issues whilst processing  the 
application our drawdown team will contact you directly. As she says they didnt make 
contact and HL says that is because there  werent any issues.
I have considered the communication.  I see she contacted HL to ask for forms to start 
accessing her pension. She mentions  that she had £9,000 tax free income tax allowance 
remaining. At this point she has made HL aware  of her objective for that tax year
Mrs W also mentions  she had a small pension worth around  £300 that she wanted to 
transfer in but didnt  want this to delay her drawdown. She is sent and completed the transfer  
forms and the transfer is then completed  in a timely  fashion but not so as to allow the 
drawdown.
I have considered that HL is an execution only service and wasnt providing Mrs W with 
advice about the transfer.  I have also considered the communications  from HL about the 
transfer made clear  they needed  to be completed  before  any drawdown started and the 
timescale for the transfer in couldnt be guaranteed. So Mrs W might reasonably have  been  
aware that there was a risk delay might happen  and have raised queries.
On balance it seems that Mrs W assumed her statement that the transfer shouldnt delay 
drawdown shouldve  been enough.  It also seems that HL acted on her instructions without 
question and didnt  engage with her timing objective.  While their letters  make  clear that the 
transfer must be completed  first they dont directly deal with her objective nor ask her 
whether she still wants to go ahead given the risk this created.
This is an execution only relationship so HL wasnt advising  on the transaction and wasnt 
obliged to do so. Its terms also make clear it will not provide  any personalised advice. I think  
HL provided enough information  for Mrs W to be aware the transfer could cause a delay. So 
I think HL did what might reasonably have  been expected in the circumstances. 
While Mrs W mightve  wished theyd take on her objective and assist her in ensuring it was 
met, I cant reasonable  say that HL was under a duty to do so. So I cannot  hold it 
responsible for her loss of opportunity to use her unused tax allowance for the year in 
question.
Mrs W says that HL is hiding behind  their terms and conditions. I am sorry to disappoint Mrs 
W. I understand that she feels  she has lost out but as I have  explained I cant  hold HL 
responsible for the reasons given above.
Ref: DRN04340613On 4 April 2018  she also requested they didnt make  payment in April 218. This was 
because it would make  her a tax payer  and mean that the married  persons tax allowance 
was lost costing  £238. In mid May 2018, at the suggestion of HL, Mrs W returned the 9,000 
net of tax payment made to her on 28 April 2018.  HL said it would reverse  the transaction 
and deal with HMRC to do this. Mrs W believed this would mean she didnt adversely affect 
her husbands  tax liability. She has made  clear that she doesnt wish to pursue this aspect of 
her complaint so I have  not considered it further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0434061