K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way NFU Mutual Insurance Society Limited  has 
handled a claim  under their buildings insurance policy after a car crashed into the front of 
their home.
background
In January 2016 someone crashed their car into Mr and Mrs Cs property damaging their 
front door, porch, steps and part of their garden wall. They contacted  NFU and it accepted 
the claim.  It appointed one supplier to secure the door and another to clear the debris.  It said 
the first supplier  attended the property on the same  day but by the time theyd  reached the 
property the police had already arranged  for the door to be secured. The second supplier  
didnt  attend  the property that day to remove the debris.
NFU appointed a loss adjuster to manage  the claim.  The loss adjuster visited  the day after 
the crash. It arranged  for a contractor to reinstate the property. Mr and Mrs C werent happy 
for any work  to start before a chartered engineer had inspected the damage. At first NFU 
said there was no need  for this as there was no structural damage  to the property but it later 
agreed to this. This was arranged and then repairs started.
About two weeks after the crash, Mr and Mrs C complained to NFU. They were  unhappy with the 
delay in replacing their front door. NFU said the door could have been  replaced sooner but it 
had been instructed to put the job on hold until the structural engineers  visit. It said 
Mr and Mrs C hadnt let its contractor  continue as they didnt want to deal with that firm 
again. NFU agreed  that the porch and door could be completed  by Mr and Mrs Cs 
contractor.
Mr and Mrs C were also unhappy with the delay in carrying out works  and NFUs  emergency  
helpline not keeping them  updated. NFU apologised for this and paid them a total of £350 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs Cs contractor started  work  but then refused to continue. In August 2016 NFU 
arranged for a schedule of outstanding  works to be prepared. In October  2016  it offered a 
cash settlement of £5,166.76. It said this was the cost of carrying out the works listed  in the 
schedule. It said it would  be prepared  to re-consider its offer if Mr and Mrs C obtained  a 
reasonable quotation for the remaining repairs.  It also offered to meet the cost of an 
independent expert  to determine the amount  it should pay to settle the claim.  
Mr and Mrs C complained  to this service. Theyre unhappy that their property still hasnt 
been fully reinstated by NFU. Our investigator  didnt uphold the complaint. She thought NFU 
had made  some errors  in the handling of the claim, but that the compensation it had paid to 
Mr and Mrs C was fair. She also thought NFUs decision  to make a cash settlement was 
reasonable.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01411502My role is to decide whether NFU has handled and settled the claim in a fair and reasonable 
way.
On the whole I think this claim has been  handled  well by NFU and its tried to accommodate  
Mr and Mrs Cs requests  within reason.  For example, it replaced its original loss adjuster, it 
paid for a structural engineer even though it didnt think  there was any structural damage 
(which was correct) and it agreed that Mr and Mrs C could use their own contractor even 
though its contractor had already started work.  But there were some avoidable delays in the 
early stages- in particular  NFU should  have arranged for the debris  to be removed from the 
garden sooner  than it did. It also should  have kept Mr and Mrs C better updated in the first 
few weeks of their claim. NFU paid £350 compensation for this. I think that was reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Under the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy NFU can decide how to go about  settling the claim.  
It can carry out the repairs itself using its own suppliers or it can pay the cost of the repairs. 
Theres nothing unreasonable about  that in principle   the insurer is the one paying for the 
claim, so its only fair that it decides  how the claim will be settled. But once an insurer  has 
commenced repairs, I usually think its entered into a repair  contract with the policyholder.  In 
essence, an agreement  has been reached where the claim will be settled by repairing the 
damage and its effectively stuck with the choice it made to repair  however much  it might 
regret it later.
But there are rare occasions when I think its fair for the insurer to refuse  to carry on with 
repairs. That will usually  only happen if the relationship  between  the insurer  and policyholder 
has irretrievably broken  down.
Thats what  I think has happened  in this case. From  NFUs perspective  it had sent its 
contractor to carry out repairs but Mr and Mrs C sent them away and didnt want  them to 
return because they were unhappy with several aspects of how the work  was being carried  
out. At that point NFU offered to appoint  another contractor or to pay for them  to have the 
work carried out by their contractor. They chose to appoint their own contractor. Issues arose  
with that contractor who left the property without completing the repair works. NFU also 
changed the loss adjuster after Mr and Mrs C accused the first loss adjuster of harassing  
them. They were also unhappy  with various members of NFUs  staff.  Eventually relations 
reached the stage  where NFU asked Mr and Mrs C to communicate with it through  its 
solicitors.
Bearing in mind the difficulties leading up to this stage and time spent on the claim I think  it 
was reasonable  of NFU to seek to settle  the claim in this way.
Mr and Mrs C have shown theyre  capable of appointing a contractor themselves since  thats 
what theyve already done at one stage of the claim. They also appointed a structural 
engineer. So I see no reason  why they shouldnt be able to do the same again. 
With regard to the settlement amount, in an attempt to resolve the matter NFU sent an 
independent surveyor  to the property  to prepare a detailed  schedule of works  which  was 
submitted to Mr and Mrs C for their approval.  The works are itemised and have been 
professionally costed at market rates.  I think NFU has tried hard to be transparent and fair in 
reaching a calculation of the cash settlement. It also suggested Mr and Mrs C get a builder 
or a surveyor to review  the figures and let it know if they had any queries. It offered to pay for 
an independent expert to review the settlement. Overall I think NFU has acted  reasonably in 
making its cash settlement offer.
Ref: DRN01411503I understand Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed  and that they were innocent  victims of an 
accident that caused a lot of damage  to their property. But Im not persuaded that NFUs 
treated them  unfairly.
There are certain things I cant look into. Of relevance here, I can only look into things that 
are regulated activities. Complaint handling isnt something thats  regulated. So, regardless 
of how well or badly  NFU might have  handled Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, thats not 
something I can investigate or make  a decision on. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0141150