K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  about the handling of a claim hes made under a warranty  provided by 
Prestige Cars Berkshire Ltd (Prestige). 
background 
Mr F bought  a used  car on finance  in November 2016. At the same time, he purchased  a 
Silver Warranty from Prestige which was designed to provide  cover should the car suffer 
from mechanical issues in the first year after the sale. Mr F experienced numerous problems 
with the car and complained to the finance company about  the quality of it. In November 
2017, he made a claim on the warranty to Prestige for problems with a number of 
components.
The car was inspected by a total of six different engineers at various times from February 
2017 to November 2017. The final inspection was instructed by Prestige after the claim was 
made.
The results  of these  inspections are well known to both parties to this complaint, so Ill not go 
into much  detail here. In summary: 
Some found the car was in reasonable condition overall bearing in mind  its age and 
mileage.
Others commented in more detail on a number  of issues  raised by Mr F and found 
the car to be largely satisfactory. 
Four engineers commented on potential  problems with the clutch and / or flywheel 
such as excess vibration through the clutch pedal  and / or gear stick. 
Two said they felt the clutch and flywheel should be replaced. 
The inspection report completed  for Prestige in November 2017 found  no issues, so Mr Fs 
claim under the warranty was rejected.  Mr F was unhappy with their decision and said there 
were numerous problems with the car. He referred his complaint to us and one of our 
adjudicators looked into it. 
Our adjudicator said that the number  of reports on the vehicle that highlighted issues with 
the clutch and flywheel led him to conclude there was a problem with these components. 
Problems with the clutch and flywheel are covered by the terms of warranty.  He 
recommended that Prestige should  replace the parts, or reimburse Mr F for doing  so. He 
said the evidence  of the other faults Mr F complained of was inconclusive, so Prestige 
should arrange for a further inspection  to be carried out focussing  them.  Both Prestige and 
Mr F agreed  with that recommendation  and the complaint  was closed. It was agreed that any 
faults identified  from that inspection  would  be considered as a new complaint.
Unfortunately however,  there were  problems setting up the inspection and replacement of 
the clutch and flywheel. When the inspection  took place sometime after the closure of the 
complaint, it found  no faults with the car bearing in mind its age and mileage. Prestige 
however, remained  happy to replace the clutch and flywheel. But Mr F was concerned that 
the parts only came  with a six month guarantee and questioned whether the parts were 
brand new or reconditioned. Our adjudicator contacted Prestige and received evidence  and 
assurances that the parts were brand new. Mr F remained unconvinced and asked for the 
complaint to be reopened and passed to an ombudsman to decide. 
Ref: DRN02018142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs complaint about the overall quality of the car was correctly brought against his finance  
provider. That has been investigated by our service and another  ombudsman  reached a final 
decision on it, so Ill not be commenting  further on that. 
Furthermore, as it was agreed  that any issues arising from the further inspection the 
adjudicator recommended  would be considered separately from this case, so theres nothing 
I can add to that. If I were  I to do so, I could cause problems  for the separate investigation. 
So Ive restricted my comments to the findings made  in this complaint concerning  the clutch 
and flywheel.  
I know that Mr F has concerns about  the mechanical  condition  of his car and numerous 
components. However, a number of inspections have been carried  out by engineers who 
have found the car to be satisfactory  in the main bearing in mind its age and mileage. But as 
our adjudicator noted, many highlighted potential issues  with the clutch and flywheel. So its 
my view that, on balance, there  were  problems with those components  and they should be 
replaced by Prestige. While they dont think there are issues with those parts  which would be 
covered by the terms of the warranty, they have agreed to replace them. 
After this agreement  was reached, Mr F raised concerns about the quality of the 
replacement parts. Ive seen the invoice paid by Prestige for the clutch  and flywheel kit and 
Im satisfied the components ordered  by Prestige were brand new.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part. Prestige Cars Berkshire Limited  
should replace  the clutch and dual mass flywheel on his car if they havent  already. Im 
aware that the further inspection has already been carried out and both parties have a copy  
of the report  I make no further comment on that.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0201814