K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of car he acquired  under a hire purchase  (HP) agreement  
with FirstRand Bank  Limited  (FirstRand).
background
Mr H acquired  a car costing £17,995 in March 2018. He part exchanged an existing car for 
£4,000 and paid a further cash deposit  of £6,000.  The balance of £7,995  was financed by 
way of an HP agreement  with FirstRand repayable  by 23 monthly instalments of £389.22 
followed by 1 monthly instalment (in month 24) of £548.22.
At time of acquisition  the car was seven years  old and had travelled approximately 84,000 
miles. It was acquired with a valid MOT certificate  with eleven months left to expiry.
Mr H says that when he acquired the car some  work  needed to be done  to it, but the 
dealership said that he could get this done  himself, at a garage and time of his own 
choosing, and it would reimburse him the cost.
Mr H says that on the day he acquired the car he was advised by another garage that he 
shouldnt drive it due to issues and problems with the tyres  and suspension.
Mr H says that he got various  work  undertaken on the car, but the dealership  refused to 
reimburse him the costs he incurred in doing so. Furthermore, he says the car quickly 
developed further faults which  led him to ask the dealership to take it back.
Unhappy with the dealerships decision to not reimburse him the costs he incurred for 
various work  undertaken,  and for its refusal  to take the car back,  Mr H complained to it.
In November 2018 the dealership, via its legal representative, responded to Mr H to say that 
it didnt believe there was anything wrong with the car when Mr H acquired it. It also added 
that many  of the costs claimed by Mr H were for MOT items and any damage to the 
wheels, tyres and bodywork should  have  been  apparent to Mr H on/or before acquisition.
Following receipt of the above Mr H complained to FirstRand.
In January 2019 Mr H complained to FirstRand again.
In February 2019  FirstRand issued Mr H with a final response letter  (FRL). In this letter  
FirstRand said that given  Mr H had been  in possession of the car for more than six months 
it [was]  necessary for [him] to provide evidence thefaults were either present or 
developing at point  of sale or as a result of a failed repair.
FirstRand then went on to explain that Mr H should  obtain an independent engineers report.  
And if this report confirmed the faults  were  present or developing at point of sale, [it would] 
reimburse up to £200 for this report and reopen [his] complaint to continue [its] 
investigation.
In March 2019 Mr H provided our service with several invoices and quotes  for parts,  work  
undertaken on the car and work required on the car. Amongst other things  this included an 
estimate for repairs, dated 8 October  2018, for €14,558.34.
Ref: DRN08348742In March 2019 FirstRand sent Mr H an arrears  notice  followed by a default  notice.
In May 2019  our service asked Mr H to get an independent report undertaken on the car. At 
this point in time the car was at a garage in Germany. The car was in Germany  because  
Mr Hs work  had taken him there.
In June 2019 Mr H provided a letter  from the garage in Germany  that had provided him, in 
October 2018, an estimate of required works  totalling €14,558.34.  This letter  reiterated  the 
required works and that:
The defects we found  on [the] car are definitely older than the date of purchaseWe  can 
assure you of this, because it cant be explained in mechanical or electronic terms how so 
much damage [could] have happened  to a car within one year (translated from German)
Following receipt of the above Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators  
who concluded that Mr H had indeed acquired a car that wasnt  of satisfactory quality and 
that his complaint in this respect  should be upheld. The adjudicator then went on to outline  
what, in his view,  FirstRand  should  have to do to fairly compensate Mr H.
First Rand responded to say that it disagreed with the adjudicators  conclusion.  In summary 
it said:
Its Mr Hs responsibility to evidence that faults were present,  or developing, at the 
time he acquired the car given he first complained about  the same more than six 
months after acquisition.
Mr H has provided an invoice/quote for various faults with the car, but this doesnt 
confirm who is liable  for these.
Mr H had undertaken repairs to the car without  its authority.
Its complaint acknowledgment letter  states  that Mr H shouldnt instruct  any repairs.
Mr H has breached  the terms and conditions of his HP agreement by taking the car 
outside of the UK. Section 6.2.2 and 6.2.3  states:
6.2.2- You will not take the Vehicle out of the UK without our written consent for more  
than 3 consecutive  weeks to another country  within the European Union.
6.2.3- You will not take the Vehicle out of the UK to another country outside the 
European Union
The adjudicator considered FirstRands response  but wasnt  persuaded to change  his mind. 
In summary  he said:
Mr H had provided enough evidence that faults  were present, or developing, at the 
time he acquired the car.
Mr H acted entirely reasonably in committing to the repairs that he did and at the cost 
that he did.
Its unfair and unreasonable to say Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld  on the 
grounds he took the car out of the country for more than 3 consecutive weeks  given 
that this fact appears to have been known for some  time by all the parties and not 
raised earlier.
FirstRand remained dissatisfied with the adjudicators conclusion, so the complaint was 
passed to me for review  and decision.
Ref: DRN08348743I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Its clear that both parties have very strong  feelings  about this complaint. They have 
provided detailed  submissions in support of their respective views which  I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  However, I trust that the parties  will 
not take the fact that my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also add that where  the parties disagree,  Ive made  my findings  on the 
balance of probabilities - in other  words,  what I think is most likely based on the 
evidence Ive seen  and the wider  circumstances.
In response to the adjudicators view FirstRand submitted that Mr H, by taking the car 
out of the UK for more than three consecutive weeks, had breached the terms and 
conditions of his HP agreement. Now I dont disagree, but in my view this breach isnt 
material to the outcome  of this complaint. I say this because  Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that had Mr H sought FirstRands written  permission  to take the car out of 
the UK, this permission  would have been  refused.  Or that the taking  of the car out of 
the UK has caused  or contributed to the faults  about  which  Mr H is now complaining.
Mr H submits that the car he acquired  in March 2018 was of unsatisfactory  quality.
As I say above, Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance  and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate)  what I consider was good  industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under 
this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is 
satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of 
them, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a 
case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances  a court  would take into 
account might include  things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the 
cars history.
Ref: DRN08348744FirstRand supplied Mr H with a car that was seven years old and had travelled 
approximately 84,000 miles.  And the price of the car was lower than it would have 
been if it had been supplied new. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
would expect that parts of the car might  have already suffered some wear and tear. 
And theres  a greater  risk this car might need  repair and/or maintenance sooner than 
a car which wasnt as road-worn when  it was supplied.
But despite  the age of the car, the miles it had travelled  and its price  Im satisfied that 
it wasnt of satisfactory quality when first supplied to Mr H.
Mr H has supplied our service  with an estimate of works dated  8 October 2018, 
works that in the opinion of the issuing garage   based in Germany  were required 
to bring the car up to a satisfactory standard. These works included,  amongst other  
things;
supply and fit of new steering  gear
supply and fit of a new rear differential
supply and fit of new brakes
Mr H has also suppled our service  with follow up correspondence from the garage in 
Germany, dated June 2019, which states  
The defects we found  on [the] car are definitely older than the date of purchaseWe  
can assure you of this, because it cant be explained  in mechanical or electronic  
terms how so much damage [could] have  happened  to a car within one year
Now I find the above to be very persuasive. So, with the above in mind,  and having  
regard to various other submissions and evidence provided by Mr H, Im satisfied that 
Mr H did indeed acquire  a car on 30 March 2018 that was of unsatisfactory quality.
Having decided that Mr H acquired a car that was of unsatisfactory quality what I now 
need to decide is what, if anything,  FirstRand should have to do to fairly compensate 
Mr H. 
From the evidence Ive seen its my understanding that Mr H has, understandably,  
lost confidence  in the car. Furthermore, it appears  that the repairs identified  as being 
needed by the garage  in Germany substantially exceed the value of the car. So, and 
in line with what the adjudicator recommended, its my view Mr H should  be able to 
reject the car. However, that isnt the end of matters.
Mr H paid a cash deposit of £6,000 and traded in his previous car for £4,000.  Now 
given that I think  its fair to assume  that Mr Hs part exchanged  car, given the 
passage of time, cant be returned to him I think its fair and reasonable that 
FirstRand should have  to pay Mr H £10,000 together with simple interest (calculated 
at 8% a year from the date payment was made to the date of settlement).
Ref: DRN08348745I also think its entirely appropriate that Mr H should be compensated for the time he 
was without the car because it was off the road (loss of use) and for the time he was 
with the car, but it wasnt performing as it should  (impaired use). Now its my 
understanding that Mr H has made ten monthly  payments under his HP agreement  
totalling £3,892.20 (last payment being made in February 2019). And that between  
March 2018 and February 2019  he suffered both impaired use and loss of use.
Having considered everything  the parties have said and submitted  I think that to fairly 
compensate Mr H in respect  of the above  FirstRand should refund  the last two 
monthly payments  made under the HP agreement (£389.22  in January 2019 and 
£389.22 in February  2019) to Mr H together with simple interest (calculated at 8% a 
year from the date each  HP agreement payment was made to the date of 
settlement).
Like the adjudicator  Im also satisfied that this whole matter has caused Mr H both 
distress and inconvenience. But having  taken  everything into account, including  
amongst other things   the extent  of repairs identified as being  required and Mr Hs 
need for a reliable  car for his work, I think that to fairly compensate Mr H in this 
respect FirstRand should have to pay Mr H £350 rather  than the £200.
I will now turn to the various  costs Mr H says he has incurred, or he is being held 
liable for, and to what extent (if any) FirstRand should refund or pay these.
Mr H submits that when he acquired  the car certain repairs were  needed, but the 
dealership advised him that he could  and should  get these done himself  and it would 
reimburse him the cost. 
Now Ive considered  this submission (in conjunction  with many others made  by Mr H) 
very carefully and I find it to be both plausible and persuasive. Im also satisfied, on 
the balance of probabilities, that Mr H wouldnt have acquired the car, or entered  into 
the HP agreement, had he not been advised by the dealership what he says he was. 
I would also remind FirstRand that under  section  56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
its responsible for anything the dealership does, or says, in its capacity as a credit 
broker during antecedent  negotiations.
And because of this I think  it was entirely  appropriate for Mr H to have incurred the 
following costs and for these to be now refunded by FirstRand together with simple 
interest (calculated at 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date 
of settlement). 
Ref: DRN08348746date description £ paid (*1) € paid (*2)
03/04/18 purchase of brake discs  and pads £259.37
04/04/18 purchase of anti-roll  bar bushes £43.39
23/04/18 discs and brake replacement €500.00
20/05/18 inspection of wheels  and suspension  (*3) €250.00
01/06/18 new wheels £1,214.00
13/06/18 purchase of tyres €600.00
23/08/18 suspension arms front bottom £105.95
23/08/18 suspension arms rear bottom £165.95
total £1,788.66 €1,350.00
*(1) costs  incurred  in the UK *(2) costs incurred in Germany
*(3) this report  identified a number of longstanding issues with the wheels and suspension
As well as incurring the above, Mr H also spent  €288.94 on a new battery. But in my 
view, it would be unfair to direct FirstRand to refund this cost given that replacing  a 
battery after several months,  especially on a car of the age and mileage  acquired  by 
Mr H, isnt unusual and should be expected.
Mr H says he has also incurred the following costs.
date description € paid € unpaid
tow costs €250.00
29/03/19 new pump and diagnostics €1,038.79
Now I dont dispute that Mr H required his car to be towed. But as Mr H has been 
unable to provide  our service with an invoice for this, or documentary evidence  that 
such an invoice was paid  for example  a bank statement  I dont think I can 
reasonably direct FirstRand to refund this cost.
I will now turn to the unpaid cost of €1,038.79. Now I appreciate that this cost was 
incurred after Mr H was advised  by FirstRand that he shouldnt have any repairs  
undertaken. But at the same time, I note that:
Mr H was in Germany and needed  a car that worked.
Mr H capped the work undertaken on the car to €1,038.79.
A large  part of the €1,038.79 invoice was to replace  a pump  because  the 
existing pump was of the wrong fuel type which made the car unsatisfactory.
So, I think that its only fair and reasonable that FirstRand pay (direct to the garage in 
Germany) the unpaid invoice of €1,038.79.
Ref: DRN08348747However, €1,038.79  isnt the only sum being sought from Mr H by the garage in 
Germany. As well as seeking  €1,038.79  for work undertaken, the garage is seeking 
(as at 16 June 2020):
€284.25 in costs and fees in trying to seek recovery of the invoiced sum of 
€1,038.79
€48.38 in interest (accruing at €0.12 a day)
€1,190.00  in storage costs
Now Ive considered  the above costs very carefully  and in all the circumstances  I 
think that its only fair and reasonable that these costs (plus any further  accrual in 
respect of the same)  be met by FirstRand. I say this in part because  had FirstRand 
upheld Mr Hs complaint  at the outset and settled the invoice for €1,038.79 then the 
above costs of €1,552.63  wouldnt have accrued. Im also satisfied, based  on what  
Mr H has said and provided, that he wasnt in the financial position to arrange  the 
release of the car back  into his custody  to prevent the above costs from accruing.
As well as the above I think its only fair that FirstRand ends Mr Hs HP agreement 
with nothing further to pay and that it ensures Mr Hs credit file has no adverse  
information recorded against it. And that it should  also arrange for the car to be 
collected from Germany at no cost to Mr H or ensure that it comes to some other 
arrangement with the garage for the cars disposal.  But whatever it decides to do, 
FirstRand should ensure that Mr H is no longer  pursued by the garage for anything in 
respect of the car subject  to this complaint.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say that although  he was prepared  to accept it, 
he wondered if he should  get back his private registration  plate and whether he should be 
refunded for other costs  he has incurred, including the cost of acquiring a second  car.
FirstRand responded to say:
It hadnt seen  a copy of the garage  report, in German or English.
It assumes the writer of the report doesnt  hold a qualification  equivalent to that 
offered/granted by the Institute of Automotive Engineer  Assessors.
Many  of the claimed part costs from Mr H are for serviceable parts for a used  car.
It was unable to complete  an investigation  as unauthorised repairs had been  carried  
out.
The best indicator of a car being fit for purpose is a MOT certificate  and the car was 
issued with a recent  one.
On receipt of the above the adjudicator  contacted FirstRand to say that I was minded to 
award Mr H up to £80 for the retention of his cherished plate and to provide it with a copy of 
the estimate of works dated 8 October 2018  and the follow up correspondence dated  
June 2019 (in both English and German).
Following the receipt of the above  FirstRand responded to reiterate  what it had said 
previously and to say that the estimate  of works didnt have a recorded  odometer reading to 
confirm how far the car had travelled since Mr H had taken possession of it and that this 
document is dated seven months  after Mr H acquired the car.
Ref: DRN08348748my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H asks whether he should be compensated for the cost of retaining his cherished plate 
and for various  other costs  including the cost of securing a second car.
Now having considered what both parties have said and submitted  I dont think it would be 
fair for Mr H to have  to bear the cost of retaining his cherished plate.  So, I find that FirstRand  
should have to refund any costs Mr H incurs in this respect up to £80. However,  I would 
remind Mr H that its for him to arrange retention of the cherished  plate and that he should do 
so before FirstRand recover the car or otherwise arrange for its disposal.
However, I dont think it would be appropriate  for me to direct FirstRand to meet any other 
costs Mr H might be seeking. And in respect of securing a second car I would add that had it 
not been for the car subject to this complaint  its my view that Mr H would have had to, on 
the balance of probabilities, secure another car in any event.
I will now turn to FirstRands  submissions to my provisional decision.
First, I would like to confirm that regardless of the qualification of the writer Im satisfied that 
in the particular circumstances of this complaint the estimate of works dated  
8 October 2018 and the follow up correspondence  dated June  2019  can be relied  upon.  I 
would also add that I find both these documents to be plausible  and persuasive.
Secondly, and for the avoidance of any doubt, I would like to make it clear that in coming to 
my provisional findings I had regard to the fact that many of the claimed  costs  from Mr H 
were in respect of serviceable parts, that some  repairs had been undertaken without 
FirstRands authority, that the car was issued with a recent MOT certificate  and the date of 
the estimate of works document.
Finally, Mr H has confirmed that the odometer reading of the car in October 2018 was 
approximately 87,000 miles.  Ive considered this reading and Im satisfied  it has no bearing,  
or certainly  has no material bearing,  on my provisional findings.  Furthermore,  I would add 
that Ive no reason to question the accuracy of the reading provided by Mr H.
So, given what I say above, I see no reason to depart form my provisional findings except to 
say that FirstRand should  have to refund any costs Mr H incurs in retaining  his cherished 
plate up to £80.
Ref: DRN08348749my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that FirstRand  Bank Limited must:
End the HP agreement with nothing further  to pay. 
Remove any adverse  information about the HP agreement from Mr Hs credit file. 
Collect the car, at no cost to Mr H, or otherwise arrange for its disposal.  But whatever 
FirstRand decides to do it should ensure Mr H is no longer pursued by the garage in 
Germany for anything in respect of the car.
Pay Mr H £10,000 in respect of his deposit (cash and trade in). *(1)
Refund repair costs  of £1,788.66. *(1)
Refund repair costs  of €1,350.00. *(1) *(2)
Pay invoice costs  of €1,038.79 (direct  to the garage in Germany).
Pay additional costs  of €1,522.63 (direct to the garage in Germany)
Pay any additional  costs that accrue  from the garage in Germany after 16 June  2020.  
Refund Mr H his last two HP agreement payments of £389.22 each. *(1)
Pay £350.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Pay any costs incurred by Mr H (up to £80) for the retention of his cherished plate.
*(1) simple  interest should be added to the above  amounts,  at a rate of 8% per year simple, 
from the date the payments were made, to the date of settlement *(3)
*(2) FirstRand Bank Limited  should use the Bank  of England opening €/£ exchange rate on 
the day of settlement
*(3) HMRC requires  FirstRand  Bank  Limited to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks for 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should be provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2021.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0834874