K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Advantage Finance Ltd gave  him a hire purchase agreement which was 
unaffordable. 
background
Mr T acquired a used car in November 2016  by entering into a hire purchase  agreement with 
Advantage. The cash price of the car was £5,400 and the total repayable under the 
agreement was £9,545.08. The duration  of the agreement was for 54 months with monthly 
repayments of £173.52  with a final repayment of £348.52.
Mr T missed the first payment under the agreement but kept up with the repayments on the 
agreement after this and eventually settled the agreement  early in July 2018. But he 
complained to Advantage to say the agreement shouldnt have been given to him because 
he couldnt afford it. He said Advantage should  have seen he was already over committed  
with other  debts at the time. He said he was only able to keep up with the repayments  on the 
agreement by taking  out further borrowing elsewhere. 
Advantage didnt  think  it had done  anything wrong.  It said there were no concerning  entries 
on Mr Ts credit file that might  have indicated he was struggling financially. It said Mr T had 
declared he was living  with his parents at the time which  would indicate he had low costs for 
living expenses. It said he was employed full-time and earning nearly £2,000  per month.  It 
said its assessment of Mr Ts ability to repay the borrowing was adequate and proportionate. 
I sent Mr T and Advantage my provisional decision on 15 September  2020. I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld. I said:
I think there are two overarching questions  I need to consider in order to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr T would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr T 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I think Mr T has been disadvantaged in any way by Advantages actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Ref: DRN07666202Did Advantage complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The regulatory framework  required Advantage to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether Mr T could afford to sustainably repay the proposed  borrowing. This 
is often referred to as an affordability check. 
This check had to be borrower-focused.  Meaning  that instead of focusing on how statistically  
likely Mr T was to repay the borrowing (which  is the risk posed to Advantage as a lender, or 
credit risk), it needed to be concerned with whether Mr T could afford and sustainably repay 
the borrowing   considering his specific circumstances. It needed  to ensure the borrowing  
wouldnt have a significant adverse impact on Mr Ts financial situation. 
What is considered proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors  such as (but 
not limited to): 
The consumers individual circumstances, including their financial circumstances;
The amount  of credit;
The total repayable;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The size of the regular repayments.
This means  whats considered proportionate could look different for two different consumers 
looking to borrow exactly the same amount, on the same terms. And whats  considered 
proportionate could be different for the same consumer depending on what the terms of the 
proposed agreement are. In summary, there  is no one-size-fits all approach to what is 
considered proportionate.  
Mr T was required to repay around £9,500  in four and a half years, which I think is quite a 
significant financial commitment. It follows that a proportionate and reasonable borrower-
focused affordability check ought  to have been relatively  thorough. 
Advantage says it has a two-tier system  for assessing whether to grant  someone  credit.  The 
first is its creditworthiness assessment.  Advantage  says this assesses how statistically  likely 
Mr T would be to repay the borrowing. It did this by looking at Mr Ts financial circumstances 
taken from his credit file and information obtained from him during the application process.  
Advantage says around 80% of its applicants fail at this stage of their assessment  but the 
score returned from Mr Ts information  indicated  he was statistically  very unlikely to default 
on the agreement. It says for this reason the decision  to grant him credit was the right 
decision. 
Advantage says the fact Mr T did repay the agreement without any difficulty,  including  
making a large  early  settlement  payment  shows its creditworthiness assessment was 
accurate and it generated the right outcome. Although Mr T did repay  the agreement, that 
doesnt mean the lending  was affordable or sustainable for him. He may have, for example, 
had to borrow further or neglected to pay other debts instead. And as Ive set out above, 
Advantage was required  to carry  out a borrower-focussed affordability assessment, which  
I dont think is what its creditworthiness assessment was. 
After passing  its creditworthiness check, Advantage  says Mr Ts application  then had an 
affordability assessment  carried out on it. It says of all the applicants each month that apply, 
only around 2% are granted credit  (80% dont pass creditworthiness  and the remaining 18% 
Ref: DRN07666203dont pass affordability).  It says everything it knew  about Mr T indicated  he could comfortably 
afford the borrowing. This is because his income was around £1,900  a month  and he lived at 
home with his parents with no significant  outgoings.  Despite this, Advantage says it still 
estimated what his likely living costs would be if he lived alone.  
It did this using ONS data and publicly available information about  council  tax and rental  
costs. It says this indicated Mr T had well over £1,000 per month  in disposable income.  For 
this reason, it says there was no need  to carry out further checks or ask for further  evidence  
about Mr Ts income or expenditure. 
It says from the copy it saw of Mr Ts payslip it was able to take an average of Mr Ts salary 
over the first seven months of the tax year and this indicated the bonus he got paid was 
likely to be a regular  feature of his income. Looking  at the information  Mr T supplied, I dont 
think Advantage acted  unreasonably in using Mr Ts bonus payments  as regular income. 
This is because it did appear  Mr T received a similar bonus payment each month and had 
done so for a considerable period  of time.
But even taking into account this higher income, Advantage had information available  to it 
already that was inconsistent with its assumption that he had over £1,000  in disposable  
income. So it wasnt reasonable to rely on estimates  of his expenditure. 
Advantage says the FCA considers the use of ONS and statistical data to be a reasonable 
way to assess creditworthiness  and affordability. Although the FCA has said this might be 
reasonable in some  circumstances,  it has also said it isnt reasonable if the firm knows or 
ought reasonably  to suspect that the statistical data is unlikely to be representative of the 
consumers specific circumstances1.  
Im not suggesting that Mr Ts rent or utility bills were necessarily significantly higher than the 
average in his local area or that Advantage should  have thought that was the case.  Instead,  
Im saying it was clear it was very unlikely his overall expenditure and financial situation 
could be accurately estimated based on what Advantage already knew. 
I say this because  Advantage carried out a credit check which  showed  amongst other 
things  that Mr T had:
Defaulted on a credit card in February 2016  with an outstanding balance  of around 
£2,000. Since the default the balance had only reduced by about  £30. 
Defaulted on a communications  account in February 2016 with an outstanding 
balance of around £197. But the debt did appear to have  since been cleared. 
He was currently six months in arrears  on another communications  account. 
He was currently over his overdraft limit of £200  on a current  account.
I find it surprising that Advantage thinks the information it saw about Mr Ts financial situation 
meant he was unlikely to be in financial  difficulty.  This is because I think  the information  
above clearly showed  he was very likely to have been struggling with his debts  recently as 
he had defaulted  on two accounts.  But it also showed his situation was unlikely to have 
improved since then.  The information ought  to have raised several concerns and questions 
for Advantage about Mr Ts ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. 
1 FCA Policy Statement PS18/19  Assessing creditworthiness in consumer credit
Ref: DRN07666204For these reasons I dont  think  Advantage carried out a reasonable or proportionate check 
on Mr Ts ability to sustainably  repay  the borrowing. It ought to have realised the estimates 
and information  it had gathered were very unlikely to be a reliable indication  of Mr Ts actual 
circumstances. 
Advantage doesnt agree it needed to carry out further checks. It says that if it had to do so 
here it would  need to do it with all other similar applicants. But it says these applicants 
generally turn out to be good  credit risks  just like Mr T was. It says it couldnt apply this 
level of scrutiny to every  applicant as it doesnt have the resources  to do so. 
Advantage has appeared to focus  on its credit risk, lending  model  and viability  of its 
business as a reason why it shouldnt have done more, rather  than what it was required to 
do by the regulatory framework.  And its not considered what the impact and risk was to Mr T 
in being able to sustainably repay the borrowing. 
Advantage says its lending  model  means it lends to people with poorer credit histories. And 
Im not suggesting it shouldnt do that. There will be people who have struggled financially in 
the past but their circumstances have since improved meaning they might be able to 
sustainably repay  borrowing now. I think in this particular case Advantage should  have  
realised the information it had about Mr Ts circumstances  was likely to be inaccurate and 
unreliable and therefore prompted it to ask more  questions  and seek  further clarity. 
Advantage has also said the FCA recently provided it with positive  feedback about its 
affordability assessment  processes. It says the FCA didnt recommend any remedial action 
be undertaken following its review in 2019.  It says that its affordability process hasnt 
significantly changed since  Mr Ts lending  was approved in 2016. 
It seems  Advantage are saying that because the FCA recently agreed that its processes are 
broadly in line with the regulators expectations (as set out in Policy Statement 18/19), it 
must follow that the assessment  of affordability carried  out at the time of Mr Ts application 
was reasonable  and proportionate. But I disagree. 
Just because Advantages  processes  might  be broadly in line with the regulators 
expectations now, it doesnt mean  that Advantage cant  or wont make an irresponsible  
lending decision in some  cases  either  previously or in the future.  In any event, in determining 
the outcome of Mr Ts case,  Im required to consider whats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  Thats  a different question to whether  the current  regulator thinks 
Advantages affordability processes needed remedial action in 2019.
The assessment Advantage carried out needed  to be proportionate to Mr Ts circumstances 
as well as the circumstances  of the borrowing itself. For the reasons Ive set out above,  I 
dont think Advantage  did carry out reasonable or proportionate checks in this particular 
case. Ive therefore  gone  onto consider what I think reasonable  and proportionate  checks  
would likely  have revealed. 
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr T could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
As Ive set out above, I dont think it was reasonable for Advantage to rely on the estimated 
disposable income figure of over £1,000 per month.  So I think  a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to have  included a more thorough review of Mr Ts expenditure. 
Ref: DRN07666205I think in the circumstances it ought to have done  something  to try to verify what actual non-
discretionary regular expenditure Mr T had. 
I dont know what questions Advantage would  have asked or what  further  information  or 
evidence they would  have requested from Mr T had they done this. But Ive reviewed Mr Ts 
current account statements (for both of his current accounts) to assess  what  his financial 
situation was at the time. In the absence of anything  else,  and bearing in mind  the further 
investigation required into what was shown on the credit file, I think these  are a good 
indication of what information Advantage would have likely discovered  if it had carried  out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Ive seen that Mr T took out a number of high-cost-short-term loans (payday loans)  in the 
months leading  up to taking out the agreement with Advantage as well as some longer term 
high cost loans.  Many of these werent  necessarily visible to Advantage when it carried out 
its credit  check. But I think its likely  it would have discovered these had it done more  to 
verify Mr Ts expenditure. So Mr Ts other  credit  commitments were significantly greater than 
Advantage had estimated and his credit commitments were also high cost. 
Mr T was regularly  overdrawn on both current accounts. He was receiving regular  charges  
for going overdrawn and for various  direct  debits failing to collect  for insufficient  funds. There  
were also a large amount of ad-hoc gambling  transactions each month. Mr T has explained  
he turned  to gambling as a way to try and pay back his creditors.
Mr T has told us he lived at home  with his parents  and his expenditure consisted of £200 per 
month for child maintenance, his various  credit commitments,  fuel and food. As Ive set out 
above it appears there were a number of credit commitments Advantage wouldnt have 
necessarily been  aware  of from the credit check it did. But from everything Ive seen, it 
seems Mr Ts monthly commitment to his creditors was around  £700 per month. This 
included paying  money back to some  debt collection firms,  which presumably were for the 
outstanding balances on his defaulted accounts.  
Mr T earned  a salary  of around £1,900 per month and taking into account his other  
committed expenditure, it seems Mr T would have had in excess  of £900 in disposable 
income each month. While this might  seem similar to the figure Advantage came to, it 
doesnt include the estimated living costs Advantage added on. 
Despite Mr T living with his parents, Advantage still estimated what  costs  Mr T might 
ordinarily incur if he lived by himself. Given Advantage  also needed to consider the ongoing 
sustainability of the finance, I think its appropriate to also consider what future  costs  Mr T 
may have  had if hed moved to his own accommodation. Advantage used  a figure of £550 
per month and I see no reason why this isnt a reasonable estimate. 
The monthly repayments on the finance agreement with Advantage were £173.52 so it 
seems had Advantage carried  out reasonable and proportionate  checks  on Mr Ts ability  to 
sustainably repay  the borrowing it would likely have lent to him anyway. This is because 
even with those  additional living costs of £550  (which Mr T didnt currently  have)  and the 
cost of the car finance agreement, Mr T would still be left with around £200  in disposable 
income each month.
Ref: DRN07666206I recognise Mr T was consistently  using  his overdraft on his current accounts and on many  
occasions exceeding his overdraft limit. He had also defaulted on credit  relatively  recently 
and was continuing to take out further  borrowing. However, it seems  that despite  this, Mr T 
did have enough  disposable income  to cover these credit commitments.
It might be that had Advantage carried out a reasonable check  for affordability,  it would have 
seen how Mr T had been managing his finances and decided  against lending to him 
because it didnt wish to take on that level of risk. But it seems Advantage was already 
aware of the defaults, many of the outstanding balances and the current account usage  and 
was satisfied with this level of lending risk, so I dont think it would have acted differently. 
And because it appears Mr T could afford  the repayments from his disposable income, 
Advantage hasnt  acted  unfairly in lending  to him.  
Therefore, although  I dont think Advantage did carry  out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, had it done  so, it would have discovered  the lending was likely to be affordable  to 
Mr T and would have granted him the finance anyway.  For that reason, I dont think  
Advantage needs to do anything to put things right. 
Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably  in some  other way?
Ive not seen anything to suggest Advantage acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in 
any other way. 
Advantage accepted my provisional  decision, but Mr T didnt. In summary,  he said he had 
taken out a number of high cost loans and payday  loans in the months  leading  up to the hire 
purchase agreement.  He said he wasnt able to afford to pay one of the payday loans which  
was for £500  and had set up a repayment plan for it. He said Advantage didnt investigate 
his financial circumstances appropriately and should  have asked to see his bank statements, 
which would have shown  the additional borrowing and gambling. 
Mr T provided his own figures  for his outgoings  which he said showed that he only had £77 
in disposable  income before he took out the hire purchase agreement. 
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. However, Ill 
address the additional points Mr T has raised. 
Ive thought about the additional borrowing Mr T says he took out just before the hire 
purchase agreement.  This was in addition  to the circa £700  per month credit commitments 
Id calculated in my provisional decision.  Some of the loans Mr T mentions  I had already 
taken into consideration, such as his monthly  payment  of £123 to a particular lender. 
However, there were  some I hadnt  seen  any evidence of before.  There isnt, for example, 
any indication from his bank statements  that he was repaying the particular payday loan 
provider he has mentioned being in a repayment plan with. So, Im not persuaded further 
robust questioning  would have revealed that additional borrowing. Overall,  I think  had 
Advantage carried out reasonable and proportionate  checks it would have likely discovered 
that Mr Ts monthly  credit  commitments appeared to be around  £700. 
Ref: DRN07666207Ive reviewed Mr Ts income and expenditure  figures that hes provided following my 
provisional decision. As well as his credit commitments (which  hes listed as £700, being  the 
same as I indicated in my provisional decision) and child maintenance payment, hes 
included costs for clothing, travel,  food,  insurance, personal care and mobile. I dont think  
any of the costs Mr T has included are unreasonable, although the cost of his mobile  
contract was included in my calculation of his credit  commitments.  
Mr T has also said his housing  costs  were £550,  which is the figure Advantage estimated it 
to be if he were to move  into his own apartment. These werent  costs  Mr T had at the time 
he took the borrowing out. So, it follows that Mr Ts monthly disposable income wasnt  £77, it 
was £627  if I accept  the figures  hes now provided  me with. This means even using Mr Ts 
own calculations, the finance agreement Advantage gave him did appear to be affordable, at 
least while he continued living at home.  
While Advantage did calculate an estimated living cost if Mr T were to move  out to his own 
place, it did so as its told me it estimates  living costs for all its applicants, even if theyve 
said they live with their parents. However, Ive already  explained that I dont think  the checks  
Advantage carried out were reasonable and proportionate. Had it done more  it would have 
likely gathered a much  more accurate picture  of Mr Ts living costs and disposable income. 
And as Ive set out above, this would have likely shown that it appeared Mr T could afford 
the borrowing. 
From everything Mr T has said and provided  it is clear he was struggling with his debts and 
continued to borrow  from other lenders in order to meet his credit commitments. However,  
I dont think reasonable and proportionate  checks ought to have  revealed  to Advantage that 
he couldnt afford the hire purchase agreement. For these reasons I dont think Advantage 
acted unreasonably in providing  Mr T with the finance.
Apart from Mr T missing his first monthly  repayment,  which  he quickly repaid, I dont think  
Advantage ought to have realised Mr T was struggling or in financial difficulty. This is 
because he didnt tell them,  nor did he fail to meet any of his future  repayments.  Overall, 
while Mr T clearly  did struggle, I dont think Advantage  acted unfairly as I dont think  it could  
have reasonably known this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0766620