K821x#15Complaint
Miss A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has refused to refund a 
transaction (made using  her Tesco  credit card) to a fraudulent company (the merchant).
Background
I recently  issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve  it. Ive attached  a copy of my provisional  
decision, which forms part of this final decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished  to make  in response  
to my provisional conclusions. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Response to my provisional findings
Miss A responded to my provisional conclusions accepting them in full. 
On 13 October 2020, Tesco requested  that the Financial Ombudsman Service  provide it with 
the contract or invoice and terms and conditions that Miss A had supplied  for the provisional 
decision to have been reached. Our investigator contacted Tesco and said Miss A hadnt 
supplied this service with any additional  information that Tesco hadnt already seen, 
including her testimony and complaint letter. 
On 28 October 2020, Tesco responded to the provisional decision and in summary said:
My provisional conclusions represented a significant departure from many previously 
published decisions. 
Tescos response to Chargeback:
Chargeback rights were not available to it through the Mastercard scheme  because  
Miss As complaint related to withdrawals. It was satisfied Miss As funds were 
credited to her account and she was able to make some withdrawals suggesting the 
account was being traded satisfactorily.  
Bank B considerations ought  to be considered differently because  it was subject to a 
different chargeback scheme that handles these  types of claims differently to 
Mastercard. 
It doesnt think  that it is advisable for the Financial Ombudsman  Service  to say that 
chargebacks should  be processed on the chance  it may not be disputed by the 
merchant and merchant  acquirer and such approach could amount to an abuse of 
the scheme rules  which  could have serious implications. 
Tescos response to section 75:
Ref: DRN06368572It didnt think it possible to analyse either a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
claim without a copy of the contract  or terms and conditions and without  knowing 
what Miss A agreed to or was told at the time of contracting.  
There may have been legitimate restrictions placed on the withdrawal of funds. 
It would  be grateful if the Financial  Ombudsman Service  could request documents  
from Miss A, and that it will take these into account  when  making a final decision as it 
did not request such documents  from Miss A when  it considered her claim as it 
thought there was no basis  for section 75 at all. 
Our investigator contacted Miss A to confirm  whether she had any documents from the 
merchant, she confirmed and reiterated that she hadnt received anything relating to the 
deposit transaction with Tesco. Our investigator confirmed  this with Tesco  before this case 
was returned to me to make a final decision. 
Tesco says my provisional decision is inconsistent with some ombudsman  decisions issued 
in the past. However, I cannot comment on other cases. My role here is to decide  the case 
before me by reference  to what  is, in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, and that is what I have done.
Chargeback 
I agree that chargeback rights are limited through  the Mastercard chargeback scheme, but I 
dont agree they are prohibited altogether.  I consider there are chargeback rights available  
where; the merchant has disappeared, or access  to a platform is blocked whereby a 
cardholder cannot use their available  funds. In this case, whilst Miss A did receive credits 
back to her Tesco account, she has explained that she was not given  access to her 
investment with the merchant. Miss A further  explained the merchant disappeared  when she 
asked for her money  back. So, Im satisfied chargeback was an option.   
I had highlighted  in my provisional  decision that Bank B considerations were  subject to a 
different chargeback  scheme.  That scheme  did not make  the final decision on liability in the 
Bank B case. Miss A succeeded in her chargeback claim on the basis  that the merchant or 
merchant acquirer did not respond to Bank Bs presentment. And that claim was made with 
the same evidence  presented to Tesco. So, I consider  that had Tesco attempted a 
chargeback, the merchant or merchant  acquirer would  more  than likely, have not responded, 
which would have resulted in Miss A recovering the deposit transaction.  
Tescos suggestion that a chargeback  shouldnt be attempted where a consumer has been 
the victim of fraud on the grounds that such an approach could result in abuse  of the scheme 
rules is unusual.  I do not consider it would be an abuse of the scheme rules for Tesco to 
pursue a claim through a scheme set up to resolve disputes between card issuers and 
merchant acquirers. Tesco may consider which claims it takes forward to arbitration based 
on the strength of the case before it. But I consider it to be a matter of good practice  to 
process a chargeback claim, where  rights exist and there is some prospect of success.   
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
My provisional decision set out why I was satisfied  Miss A could recover  her money through  
a claim  for misrepresentation and breach  of contract under section 75 based on the available  
evidence. 
Ref: DRN06368573Tesco hasnt disputed  Miss As testimony  of her interactions with the merchant. I found  
Miss As testimony  to be both detailed and compelling. Tesco hasnt disputed that the 
merchant was likely  not operating a legitimate enterprise. Tesco has suggested there may 
have been legitimate reasons for the merchant placing restrictions on withdrawals but has 
not expanded  on whether  it believes  that to have applied in Miss As case or why such  terms 
would be legitimate.  I dont dispute the merchant may have restricted  withdrawals but what 
Ive concluded is whether  such terms were made clear, at the point of sale and in exchange 
for Miss As deposit. 
Im not persuaded that Miss A would have proceeded with the deposit  transaction,  had the 
merchant explained, at the point of sale, that she would not be able to access  her full deposit  
transaction again.
Putting things  right
Ive established  three  grounds Miss A could have recovered her deposit-transaction:
Chargeback: Im satisfied that Miss A wouldve had recourse to recover her deposit- 
transaction through  the chargeback scheme had Tesco processed a chargeback  
claim. But this would limit the amount Miss A could  recover to the deposit alone, less 
the amounts credited to her by the merchant.
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Miss A has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that the merchant made a series  of misrepresentations, namely that it was 
operating a legitimate  enterprise and that Miss A could access  her money  freely and 
earn a profit from her deposit-transaction. Im also satisfied that the deposit- 
transaction fee meets  the test for consequential loss in misrepresentation as it 
wouldnt have been incurred but for the deposit-transaction. It was also a direct  and 
foreseeable loss as a result of the deposit-transaction.
Breach of contract: Im satisfied Miss A also has a claim for breach of contract as the 
merchant breached  the verbal promises to Miss A. Namely  that she would be able to 
use the funds  from her deposit-transaction on an investment platform and access  
them freely   when  she wished.  This provides another  basis for recovery of the 
deposit but not the deposit-transaction fee.
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, Tesco bank should put Miss A back 
into the position she would have been had the deposit-transaction of £3,903.87 had not 
been entered  into and transaction fee of £107.35  had not been  charged by Tesco. So, she 
should receive refunds of these amounts, less the amounts credited to her by the merchant.
My final decision
My final decision  is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  refund Miss A the deposit-
transaction and transaction fee, plus interest.  It should:
Refund the deposit-transaction, less the amounts credited by the merchant;
Refund the transaction fee;
Pay 8% interest on those sums  from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Tesco deducts tax in relation to the interest  element  of this award it should provide 
Miss A with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Ref: DRN06368574Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
Dolores Njemanze 
ombudsman
Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Miss A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has refused to refund a transaction  
(made using her Tesco  credit card) to a fraudulent company (the merchant).
Background
Ref: DRN06368575Miss A saw an advert on her social media  platform for a company offering investment products - 
endorsed by well-known celebrities. She left her contact details on the merchants webform and was 
subsequently contacted by a broker working for the merchant.
Miss A says the broker conducted himself professionally and appeared to have a good financial 
background  stemming from working  in the banking industry. The broker guaranteed profits and high 
returns if Miss A invested with the merchant.
The broker  said that Miss As initial lump sum payment  would be used as a deposit to open the 
account and shed be able to freely access her funds. She was never  given access  to an investment 
platform and the broker took complete  control over what would  happen with the funds but made it 
clear hed return funds to her credit card account.  The transaction below came from Miss As Tesco 
credit card:
Date Supplier Payment method Amount
29 May 2017 the merchant Mastercard Credit card £3,903.87
(Transaction fee
£107.35)
Total £4,011.22
Miss A was verbally told by the broker that her investment was doing well and her account with Tesco 
was credited with the following transactions:
-1 June 2017  Miss A receives  a credit onto her Tesco  credit card of 194.75 from the 
merchant. A separate  foreign exchange fee of £5.35 was also credited  to her account;
-13 June  2017  Miss A receives a credit onto her Tesco credit card of £395.49 from the 
merchant. A separate  foreign exchange fee of £10.87 was also credited to her account.
Some months went  by and the broker told Miss A that his mother was unwell which was why he had 
not been  in regular contact  with her.
The broker gave Miss A assurances that her investment was still doing very well and encouraged her 
to apply for credit to make further deposits towards a new investment as a way of obtaining higher  
returns. Miss A did apply for credit with another banking provider (bank B) and made a new series  of 
payments towards a different merchant  (merchant 2). Ive set out the subsequent  sequence  of events 
below:
-13 September 2017  Miss A draws down a loan of £9,600 from bank B and the loan funds 
credit her account with bank  B
-14 September 2017  Miss A pays £5,000 from her bank account with bank B using her VISA 
debit card to merchant  2
-15 September 2017  Miss A pays £4,800 from her bank account with bank B using her VISA 
debit card to merchant  2
-20 September  2017  Miss A receives  a credit into her bank B account  from merchant 2 of 
£400
-25 September  2017  Miss A receives  a credit into her bank B account  from merchant 2 of 
£303.57
-29 September 2017  Miss A pays £1,000 from her Mastercard credit card account with bank 
B to merchant  2
-In November 2017  Miss A draws  down an overdraft of £2,400 from bank B  which was an 
increase to her existing limit of £700
-8 November 2017   Miss A pays £2,000 from her newly increased overdraft limit with bank B 
via an online international  bank transfer to merchant 2
Ref: DRN06368576The broker told Miss A the payments to merchant 2 would be linked to her original investment  with the 
merchant. He also advised  she would  be able to access her funds  freely. This time,  Miss A was given  
access to an investment platform but was unable  to see the investment made  to the merchant.
Miss A realised there was a problem  when she asked to withdraw her funds  and the broker stopped 
taking her calls. She was then blocked from accessing her platform. As she had only spoken with the 
broker by phone  which appeared  to be a London based telephone number  she had no alternative 
way to get in touch  with him or the merchant.
In January 2018, Miss A told Tesco and bank B that she had fallen victim to investment  fraud and 
asked them to refund her money.
Bank B processed chargebacks for the debit card payments  of 14 September 2017 and 15 
September 2017. The chargeback claims  succeeded  due to merchant 2 or the merchant acquirer  not 
defending the claim. Bank B did not process a chargeback for the credit card transaction of 29 
September 2017 and were  unable to recover the international payment of 8 November 2017 from the 
recipient bank. Tesco informed  Miss A that it didnt  have any chargeback rights through the 
Mastercard chargeback  scheme.
It told Miss A that because she had gambled her money in binary options,  it was unable to help. 
Tesco said that since April 2017 Mastercard had denied chargeback rights in cases involving binary 
options.
Tesco acknowledged a chargeback could be attempted but as the decision  to attempt  a chargeback 
was discretionary on its part, it decided  not to on the grounds that the claim would likely  fail. Tesco  
also said that Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75) didnt apply  to Miss As transaction 
or indeed  transactions  to trading accounts in general.
Tesco acknowledged Miss A was given some  incorrect information about  how she could complain 
and offered her £25 compensation  to recognise  this.
Miss A says she was never told the merchant  would be gambling  her money in binary options and 
believed it had safely invested it at the time. She acknowledged the limitations within the chargeback 
scheme but felt more could  be done because she had been defrauded.  Miss A referred  her complaint 
to this service.
One of our investigators felt that Section 75 liability extended to Miss As deposit transaction  and 
thought there were  strong grounds for a claim under misrepresentation. This was on the basis that the 
merchant was likely operating  fraudulently. He suggested  that Miss As money  be returned, along with 
any interest and charges implications.
Tesco disagreed. It said our investigator had misunderstood Section 75. It also said binary trading  
isnt the securing of goods and rather its the beginning  of speculating in trading markets. Tesco said 
our investigators view departed from previous  decisions issued by our service  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case.
My provisional findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done  so, Ive reached much of the same  conclusions of our investigator but Ive included 
some further reasoning. I did want to make it clear that I cannot comment on other cases. My role 
here is to decide the case before me by reference to what is, in my opinion fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, and that is what I have done.
In this decision Ill explore  whether any credit card protection options  were  available to Miss A in order 
to bring a claim against  the merchant and specifically:
Ref: DRN06368577Whether a chargeback ought to have been processed by Tesco in relation  to the disputed  
transaction.
Whether Miss A has any rights to bring a claim under section 75 dealing in turn with:
oBreach  of contract in relation to the disputed  transaction  and whether  the transaction  fee 
and bank  B loss could  be claimed as recoverable  losses.
oMisrepresentation in relation to the disputed transaction  and whether the transaction fee 
and bank  B loss could  be claimed as consequential losses.
As Miss A has raised no further  concern as to Tesco misinforming her about  how she could complain  
following its offer of £25 compensation, Ive made no finding on this point.
Chargeback
The chargeback process is relevant here. A chargeback is the process  by which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between  card issuers and merchants, under  the relevant scheme rules. What 
this means is that Tesco can in certain circumstances  ask for a payment made to be refunded. One of 
those circumstances  is where  the goods or services arent supplied  or as described by the merchant.
A chargeback  isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. There needs to be a right to a chargeback under 
the scheme  rules. And under those  rules  the merchant or merchant acquirer can defend a chargeback  
if it doesnt  agree with the request. If a chargeback is defended, the card issuer (in this case  Tesco) 
can make a second presentment of the chargeback by providing further supporting evidence. If it is 
still defended  by the merchant, it can ask the card scheme provider  to decide  whether  a refund should 
be given. This final part of the chargeback process is called arbitration.
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. But we 
would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where  the rights exist and there is 
some prospect of success.
The Mastercard  chargeback  rules relevant to the date of Miss As transaction  state  that chargebacks 
are available to the card issuer (Tesco) for transactions in which any value is purchased for gambling, 
investment or similar purposes.  However, issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of 
these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such  value, or on any winnings,  gains or losses 
resulting from the use of such chips or value.
Im satisfied  that chargeback  rights are limited through the Mastercard  scheme  rules  when it comes to 
claims relating to gambling, investment or similar.  But they arent excluded altogether. Having clarified  
this point with Mastercard, Im satisfied there would be an appropriate chargeback route if a merchant 
does not make  funds  transferred to it available  for use in the type of transactions  for which  it received  
them.
So, I disagree with Tescos assertion that there was no prospect of success  through the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme.  I think it should have attempted a chargeback  based on Miss As claim that the 
broker had disappeared and she was provided  no access to her investment with the merchant.
Based on Miss As claim, Im satisfied Tesco had grounds to process  a chargeback on the basis that 
Miss A was unable to use the funds  credited to her investment platform  as she was never provided 
access to one. Ive also considered that chargebacks  were successfully processed by bank B in 
relation to the debit card transactions - with the same broker representing both the merchant and 
merchant 2. Whilst bank B operated under a different  card scheme, the chargebacks  succeeded 
because neither  the merchant or merchant acquirer defended  them. Had Tesco properly pursued a 
chargeback claim for Miss A, Im satisfied  (on balance) it wouldve  succeeded  on a similar basis.  Im 
persuaded Miss A wouldve been able to recover the full amount paid to the merchant.
Im not satisfied the Transaction fee of £107.35 could  be recoverable through the chargeback scheme  
because this was the cost Tesco applied to converting Miss As transaction  into its intended currency.
Ref: DRN06368578Section 75 Consumer  Credit Act 1974
Ive also considered whether it would  be fair and reasonable to uphold Miss As complaint on the 
basis that Tesco is liable to her under section  75, because  this might give her additional rights. As a 
starting point,  its useful  to set out what the Act actually  says:
75(1) If the debtor  under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed  by the agreement, any claim  against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor
(3) Subsection (1) does  not apply to a claim  
(a) under a non-commercial agreement,  
(b) so far as the claim relates to any single  item to which the supplier  has attached  a cash  price not 
exceeding £100 or more  than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1.a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2.a transaction financed  by the agreement; and
3.a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4.but not a claim  which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a cash price  
below £100 or in excess  of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem  to be any dispute that a 
credit card account  is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the act. And, Im satisfied 
here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  insomuch as there are three 
parties involved:
1.Miss A (the debtor)
2.Tesco  (the creditor);  and
3.The merchant  (the supplier)  as shown on Miss As paperwork and Tescos business file 
submissions.
The second  consideration  is whether the transaction  is financed by the agreement. Transaction 
isnt defined  by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by the courts   to include 
whatever bilateral  exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Miss A has deposited funds  to open an 
account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an investment platform  and being able to 
withdraw them as and when she wished.  Given the exchange of money in return for certain  
contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a transaction (which Ill call the deposit-transaction) as 
defined by section 75.
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would  be to provide funds to do 
something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds  TSB Bank  plc [2004] Miss Justice Gloster  said in a 
passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance approaching the matter in a 
common sense way must mean provide  financial accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer  
clearly provides financial  accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from suppliers, 
because he is given time to pay for his purchase under  the terms of the credit card agreement.
Applying that ordinary  definition  here, if Miss A had not used her credit card,  she would have had to 
find the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit and obtain the investment account  this 
supposedly entitled her to. So, its clear that the deposit-transaction  was financed by the agreement.
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what  Miss As claim is here. 
Its evident  from her testimony and the correspondence  she provided that she feels  she was tricked 
into depositing the initial payment with the merchant  for the dual purpose of:
Ref: DRN06368579a)Stealing the deposit money; and
b)Encouraging Miss A to deposit  larger amounts.
Miss A does not believe  that the merchant was operating legitimately and believes she was misled 
into thinking  it was.
This claim  that Miss A was misled  into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation  to the deposit-
transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach  of contract. In this case, if 
Miss A was told by the merchant matters that were factually untrue in order to trick her into entering 
into the deposit-transaction,  her claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if the merchant made 
binding promises to her as part of that transaction and went  on to breach  these that would  make her 
claim one for breach of contract.
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which  the seller  has attached a cash price of less 
than £100 or more  than £30,000. Here, the cash price  of the deposit-transaction is the value of that 
deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the contract.
Tesco has declined the claim  under Section 75 because it says that the deposit was a step to 
speculating and didnt  secure any goods. I take this to mean that the deposit was nothing more than 
transferring money  onto another account,  opened for the purpose of speculating with the money, 
rather than being a payment that was used  to purchase  goods. When funds  are deposited  onto a 
trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of money between  accounts, it may also have 
been paid in return for something. In this case the broker has made  contractual promises  in exchange  
for the deposit. Tesco  in its refusal to accept liability  under Section 75 havent quoted the Act itself. It 
is important  to note that Section 75 doesnt  use the term purchase  of goods or services nor is there 
anything within the Act that would exclude the present type of transaction.
For the reasons  set out above, Im satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transaction.
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Miss A has a valid claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Miss A has made a claim  of misrepresentation by the merchant  that claim  being  that it 
represented to her it was a legitimate enterprise  when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false statement of 
fact but also that the statement induced  Miss A into entering into an agreement.
A false statement  of fact
If Im satisfied  that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  - one in which 
Miss A could have ever received back more money than she deposited, then it follows that any 
statements made  by the merchant to the contrary are likely to be a misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Miss A could  make money  from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a legitimate 
business, i.e. a legitimate  trading platform on which investors  could profitably trade. And, Im satisfied 
that based on Miss As account of events and the nature of the situation,  the merchant did claim that 
Miss A could have made money from the trading platform.
That induced her into entering  the agreement
Again, had Miss A known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed  to relieve 
investors of their money, rather  than a legitimate service,  theres really little question of her not 
investing with the merchant.  Consequently, should I be satisfied that the merchant  isnt operating a 
legitimate enterprise then inducement  will also be demonstrated.
Ref: DRN063685710Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail,  I should mention  that Ive found  Miss As account of events  both 
detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated not just by other complaints of this 
nature but specific complaints against this particular merchant. Because  of this Im minded to find her 
account to be truthful.
So, turning to her account, I note that shes mentioned coming into contact with the merchant after 
clicking on an advert  apparently supported by well-known celebrities. Ive seen what  I think  is likely to 
be the same  advert and it is a fake endorsement   for which there has been significant recent press 
coverage, specifically by one of the celebrities  appearing to endorse the merchant explicitly stating 
that these  firms are scammers and that he has no connection  with them  whatsoever. The matter was 
also subject to a legal battle over the unauthorised  use of the celebritys  face and name. So, the fact 
the merchant  was using a faked celebrity endorsement to advertise  its website immediately gives me 
cause for concern.
I note Miss As description  of the tactics used by the merchant. Miss A was told by the merchant that 
her investment had made profits whilst  she was compliant and happy for it to keep investing  her 
money but when she grew impatient  and asked for her funds  to be returned, the merchant 
disappeared.
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government  agencies, press  cuttings and the card schemes  that repeat the tactics  used by 
the merchant. Which  does lead me to seriously  question whether any actual trades were being  placed  
on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the merchant is offering little more than a 
video game  or simulation.
I did find it curious that Miss A was given  small refunds  from the merchant and merchant 2 and Ive 
considered this very carefully  as it does complete the story of Miss As overall agreement  with the 
merchant.
I find this is a common way of merchants providing  assurances  to consumers that they will see 
returns on their investments  and acts as an inducement to deposit more  money. And in Miss As case, 
a way of persuading her the merchant and merchant 2 were legitimate   in turn delaying any attempt 
Miss A should  make  in taking action against the merchant and merchant 2.
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into applying for 
credit - as the broker did here - to invest in products that could lose money. Next, is the refusal to 
allow withdrawals from the platform  again an issue repeated  across many complaints against similar 
firms. Seemingly the merchant  has simply  stopped responding to Miss A despite a verbal  agreement 
to return  the funds.
So, within Miss As account of events and the evidence shes provided theres  a strong basis for 
concluding that the merchant is not operating  a legitimate  enterprise.
There is further evidence in the form of a warning on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website, dated 
4 July 2017, which suggests the merchant may not be acting legitimately. It says:
We believe  this firm has been providing financial services  or products in the UK without our 
authorisation. Find out why to be especially  wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and how to 
protect yourself from scammers.
The merchant  is no longer operating  and has not operated for some time. There  are also several 
online reviews from victims that share very similar  experiences to that of Miss A.
Ref: DRN063685711Taking all of this together, I dont think  its likely  the merchant  was operating a legitimate  enterprise. 
This means that I think  it has made misrepresentations  to Miss A  specifically  that the merchant was 
running a genuine  enterprise through which she could ever have got back more  than her deposits 
from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Miss A had known this, she wouldnt have deposited  any 
money, so she was induced into the contract on the basis of these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation
Whilst this complaint centres on the transaction Miss A made using her Tesco  credit card.  Ive also 
considered whether Miss A has a valid claim against  Tesco for the loss incurred  with bank B and 
whether this loss can be considered as recoverable  damages or consequential loss flowing from the 
misrepresentation and/or  breach of contract in relation to the Tesco deposit-transaction. Bank B was 
able to recover the majority  of Miss As loss with it, so when I later refer to the bank  B contribution Im 
referring only to the unrecoverable loss and to be specific - £2,675.43.
There are three issues  to be considered here:
1.Did Miss A lose the deposit as a direct result of having entered  into the deposit-  transaction?
2.Was that loss mitigated?
3.Did Miss A lose the transaction fee attached to the deposit-transaction and her subsequent 
bank B contribution because of the deposit transaction?
Miss A did receive  two credits from the merchant  but was unable to recover the remaining loss on her 
Tesco credit card through the merchant, and its reasonable to conclude  that the loss of the remainder 
of this deposit was a result of having entered into the deposit- transaction  with the merchant.
In relation to mitigation, Miss A did also receive  two credits from merchant 2 and recovered  most of 
the losses incurred with bank B. But this was in relation to her subsequent  transactions with bank B. 
Theres no direct  link between any recoveries made and the deposit-transaction with Tesco. So, there 
was a small mitigation of the loss in question with Tesco  as a result of the credits from the merchant.
In relation to the transaction fee and the bank B contribution, Ill need to set out the test for 
establishing consequential loss in misrepresentation.
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been fraudulently 
induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer all the damage 
directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset 
Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies  two hurdles that must  be surmounted  before  any item of 
loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a)The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been  entered into 
between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b)The loss must be the direct  consequence  of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence  of the transaction.
Transaction fee
The transaction fee linked to the deposit-transaction  is somewhat straight forward to cover off. Had 
the deposit-transaction  not have occurred the transaction fee couldnt have occurred. The transaction 
fee was a direct consequence of the deposit-transaction.
As the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable  that a bank used by Miss A to make the 
deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment.  So, Im satisfied Miss As payment of the 
transaction fee was consequential loss in misrepresentation.
Bank B contribution
Ref: DRN063685712In relation  to the but for test, if Miss A had not made the initial deposit and had therefore  not entered  
into the transaction relating  to that deposit, it is conceivable that she wouldnt have made  the bank B 
contribution.
The key question Ive considered is whether; if the initial deposit-transaction hadnt taken  place, would 
that have meant that Miss A would  never have opened the supposed  binary  options  account  (and 
therefore not have gone on to lose the bank B contribution).
The bank  B contribution occurred several  months after the deposit-transaction and from the evidence 
Ive considered, was made off the basis of a set of new misrepresentations  made by the broker to 
induce Miss A into opening a new account with merchant  2. So, I dont find it likely that the bank B 
contribution occurred  as a result of the misrepresentations made  at the initial deposit-transaction.
I find that but for Miss As entry  into the initial  deposit-transaction, Miss A was likely still to have 
fallen victim to the fraud with merchant  2. So, this test for causation  isnt met.
Even if I were to be satisfied that the but for test for causation  has been met, Id also need to be 
satisfied that the bank  B contribution was a direct  (foreseeable) consequence of the Tesco deposit-
transaction.
Im not persuaded  that the bank B contribution was a direct consequence of the deposit-  transaction. 
I say this because:
At the time of the deposit-transaction there was no discussion of Miss A applying  for credit 
with bank  B;
There was no discussion of the merchant investing with merchant 2.
I think the bank B contribution occurred as a result of an elaborate  course of deceptive  conduct (on 
the part of the merchant), subsequent to the initial  deposit-transaction. This was aimed at convincing 
Miss A that she was profiting from her investment  and had reason to expect even better returns if only 
she contributed more money.
As both strands of the test for consequential loss havent been met, Im unable  to agree  that Tesco 
should be liable for the bank B contribution  caused by the misrepresentation of the merchant.
Breach of contract
Here, Miss A has deposited  funds to open an account in exchange  for being  able to use those  funds 
on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. Given  the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a transaction  
(the deposit-transaction) as defined  by section 75.
It follows, I think, that the merchant had contractual obligations:
a)To enable Miss A to use the funds from the initial deposit on an investment  platform; and
b)To enable Miss A to withdraw  the funds  deposited  as and when she wished.
Miss A was not given access to the credit balance  created by her Tesco deposit-transaction, so Im 
satisfied both terms  were  breached by the merchant. She might have made losses or profits from her 
investment  so a breach  of the former term has not  on the balance of probabilities  caused her to 
lose trading profits and she would (on balance) been left no better or worse off than when  she made 
the deposit.
It follows that as a breach  of contract can be identified, Miss As loss amounts to the full amount of the 
deposit-transaction.
Ref: DRN063685713But the question again arises as to whether the transaction fee and the bank B contribution can be 
considered as recoverable losses under a breach of contract  claim.
Transaction fee
I need to consider how much better off Miss A would have been if the merchant had fulfilled its 
contractual obligations to her. Applying  that test to the deposit-transaction, its clear that the 
transaction fee was not a recoverable consequence of the deposit-transaction. I say this because 
allowing Miss A to trade on the account and withdraw  the deposit as and when she wished would not 
have prevented her from having to pay the transaction fee.
So, the transaction fee should  not be held as a recoverable loss in connection with the breach  of 
contract claim relating  to the deposit-transaction.
Bank B contribution
Turning to the loss of the Bank B contribution, the question is whether  this loss was too remote a 
consequence of the merchants  breaches to be recoverable.
The leading textbook, Chitty on Contracts, defines the test for remoteness of loss in cases  of breach 
of contract (i.e. limits of which losses are recoverable  from a contract-breaker) as follows:
A type or kind of loss is not too remote a consequence of a breach  of contract if, at the time of 
contracting (and on the assumption that the parties actually foresaw the breach  in question), it was 
within their reasonable contemplation  as a not likely result  of that breach.  [paragraph 26-121]
Applying that test to the deposit-transaction,  its unlikely  the loss of the bank B contribution was a 
recoverable consequence  of the breach of the deposit-transaction. I say this because:
a)At the time of the deposit-transaction the bank B contribution seems not to have been in Miss 
As contemplation. So, the deposit-transactions terms must  have been  silent about Miss As 
rights in respect of any subsequent deposit.
b)If, at the time of the initial deposit, Miss A had foreseen  that the merchant would breach the 
deposit transaction,  as it did, she would  certainly  have contemplated losing  the initial deposit; 
but I cant  see it would  have  been in her contemplation that she wouldve  made, and lost, 
further deposits. They  arose from subsequent dealings.
So, I find that under  her claims for breach  of contract Miss A cannot claim  the transaction  fee or the 
bank B contribution.
Putting things right
Ive established three grounds Miss A could have recovered her deposit-transaction:
Chargeback:  Im satisfied that Miss A wouldve had recourse to recover her deposit- 
transaction through the chargeback  scheme had Tesco  processed a chargeback
claim. But this would  limit the amount Miss A could  recover to the deposit alone, less the 
amounts credited to her by the merchant.
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Miss A has a claim  for misrepresentation on the grounds that 
the merchant  made a series  of misrepresentations, namely that it was operating a legitimate 
enterprise and that Miss A could  access her money freely and earn a profit  from her deposit-
transaction. Im also satisfied that the deposit-  transaction fee meets the test for 
consequential loss in misrepresentation as it wouldnt  have been incurred but for the 
deposit-transaction. It was also a direct  and foreseeable loss as a result of the deposit-
transaction.
Ref: DRN063685714Breach  of contract: Im satisfied Miss A also has a claim for breach of contract  as the 
merchant breached  the verbal  promises  to Miss A. Namely that she would be able to use the 
funds from her deposit-transaction on an investment platform and access them freely  when 
she wished. This provides another basis for recovery of the deposit but not the deposit-
transaction fee.
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum,  Tesco bank should put Miss A back  into the 
position she would have been had the deposit-transaction  of £3,903.87 had not been entered  into and 
transaction fee of £107.35  had not been charged by Tesco. So, she should receive refunds of these  
amounts, less the amounts  credited to her by the merchant.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision  is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  refund Miss A the deposit-
transaction and transaction fee, plus interest. It should:
Refund the deposit-transaction, less the amounts  credited  by the merchant;
Refund the transaction fee;
Pay 8% interest  on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
If Tesco  deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should  provide Miss A 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Dolores Njemanze 
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0636857