K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL)  has unfairly declined a claim, under his motor
insurance policy, to pay his legal defence costs following a charge of death by dangerous
driving.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I was not minded to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Both parties  have accepted my 
provisional findings.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add Ive reached the same conclusions  as set 
out in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr K complains that Society of Lloyds  (SoL) has unfairly declined a claim, under his motor  
insurance policy, to pay his legal defence costs  following a charge of death  by dangerous driving.
background
Mr K has been charged with death by dangerous driving  and is due to face trial for this.
Its alleged  that Mr K was racing  with a third party vehicle. The third party vehicle lost control  and 
left the road, sadly  one of the passengers  was killed. Mr K denies  racing or any liability in this 
matter.
Ref: DRN09927692Mr K made  a claim with SoL for his defence costs to be covered. This is made  specifically under  
the following part of the policy:
section 1 Liability to others:
1.5 Legal defence costs
Provided that an incident occurs which is covered by this policy and we agree  in writing 
first, we will pay for the legal representation of you or any other  person  we insure under 
this policy:
I. At a coroners inquest, fatal accident inquiry or court of summary jurisdiction;  II.
Against prosecution for manslaughter  or for causing death by careless or
dangerous driving.
SoL declined this and relied on the following  exclusion contained within the policy:
We will not pay for any loss, damage, injury, death or any other liability caused in any of 
the following circumstances whilst your vehicle is being used, driven or in the charge  of for 
that purpose:
I.    [] II. 
[] III. 
[]
IV. for racing, formally or informally, against another  motorist whether  on a road or track;
Mr K was unhappy with this as he denies racing and so brought  his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that, on balance, she was satisfied that
the evidence showed  Mr K to have been racing  and so it was ok for SoL to rely on the exclusion 
mentioned above. She also said that she didnt  think there was a valid claim under the policy as Mr 
Ks vehicle had not made contact with any other party or object and so no insurable event  had 
occurred.
Mr K disagreed and so the matter has been referred to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what happened,  Ive based my 
decision on what I thinks most  likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially  relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to 
all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr K that I reached the same outcome as the investigator and
Ill explain why.
In order for me to decide whether its fair and reasonable to require SoL to cover Mr Ks 
defence costs under the policy there are two main  issues I need to decide. These are:
1.  Whether there is an eligible claim; and
2.   If there  is, whether SoL is entitled to rely on the exclusion above to decline  it.
Ref: DRN09927693is there an eligible claim
The policy provides cover for legal defence costs where an incident  has occurred which  is 
covered by the policy. I think this a key point in answering  this question.
Mr K is facing  trial in criminal  proceedings as a result  of his alleged dangerous  driving. On the 
information provided  there has been no claim  against his policy from a third party. And in addition Mr 
Ks vehicle hasnt suffered any damage so he isnt claiming for something covered by the policy.
Im persuaded by the information there hasnt been  an actual or intimated claim against Mr Ks 
policy at this time. So Im satisfied there has been no qualifying incident that is covered  under  the 
policy, and SoL has acted  fairly in declining Mr Ks claim for his defence costs to be covered.
So I dont  uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint.
As the first main issue hasnt  been met, the need for me to consider if SoL was reasonable in 
relying on the racing  exclusion  the second issue I have referred to above  - falls away. Even so, I 
have gone on to explain why, even if I was minded to find in Mr Ks favour on the first issue  Im 
satisfied it would remain  fair for SoL to decline his claim.  Ive addressed this for the sake of 
completeness, and because I know a great deal of time has been focused on the exclusion  by both 
parties. I also want to demonstrate that I recognise  the importance of this matter.
The exclusion  referred to above is clear  that racing of any kind,  informal or formal  will mean  a claim 
will be rejected under the policy. Mr K denies that he was racing and has given  a statement to the 
Police to that effect. He is intending to rely on his testimony in court to show he wasnt racing.  
Whether he was racing and if that constitutes dangerous driving are questions  for the court to 
decide. And in the criminal  court  Im mindful that the standard  of proof is beyond reasonable doubt.
The standard  of proof I have  to apply  in my decisions is the balance of probabilities   in
other words what  is more  likely than not. And Im deciding  whether SoL was entitled to reach  the 
decision it did and, importantly, if I consider this fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I have seen the evidence that SoL relied  upon when  making its decision to apply the exclusion.  The 
evidence contains  various independent witness statements; all of them support the allegation  that 
Mr K was racing. As a result  of this, I dont think SoL has acted  unreasonably in relying on the 
evidence available to it to apply the racing exclusion. Again, to be clear, this is quite different from 
deciding whether  or not Mr K was actually racing.
Im satisfied there is no actual or intimated claim  against or under Mr Ks policy  and SoL has acted  
fairly in declining cover  for legal defence costs. And even if there was, Im persuaded that SoL 
would be acting fairly  in applying  the racing  exclusion. It follows  that I dont uphold  Mr Ks 
complaint so theres nothing more that SoL needs to do.
I know that Mr K will be disappointed with this outcome  but my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to resolve his dispute informally  with SoL  can do for him.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, my provisional decision  is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Amber Mortimer
Ref: DRN09927694ombudsman
Ref: DRN0992769