K820x#14complaint
Miss P and Mr P complain that Legal  & General  Insurance Limited (L&G) have provided poor 
service during a claim they made under  their home  insurance for damage caused by a water 
leak,
background
Miss P has been dealing  with this claim and the subsequent complaints to L&G. Ill refer 
mainly to Miss P throughout  this decision for ease of reading.  
In November 2017 Miss P noticed water  coming through  the hall ceiling.  A plumber 
confirmed this was because there  was a leak in pipework below a bathroom sink in an 
upstairs room, and the leak was fixed.  Miss P then contacted L&G and explained what  had 
happened. L&G agreed to consider  the claim and sent a surveyor out to look at the damage. 
He concluded  that there  was damage and L&G agreed it would pay for the repairs. This was 
a couple of weeks after the leak had occurred. 
Miss P told the surveyor that some of her contents were damaged too  she said the hall 
carpet and a rug had been soaked  and needed  either replacement or cleaning. He agreed  to 
let L&G know about this.
L&G sent a second company to look at the contents. Miss P wasnt happy with the way the 
contractor behaved   she felt some  of his comments were  dismissive. By this time about five 
weeks had passed  since the leak had been  repaired. The contractor thought the stains  to the 
back of the carpet might  not have been  from the leak in November and that werent  any 
signs of damage to the rug.
Miss P then complained, in mid January 2018,  that a promised scope of works hadnt been 
sent to her as agreed with the surveyor. And she was unhappy that shed not been  told to 
clear the hallway before the contractor  arrived to look at the damage to the carpet and rug. 
She also complained  about the contractors  attitude and that he hadnt known to inspect the 
rug.
L&G acknowledged things  hadnt gone  as they should and offered Miss P £100 to make  up 
for this. It said it would pass her comments about  the contractor on to his employers so it 
could be dealt with.
A few days  later L&G said it wouldnt pay for the carpet or rug as the assessment suggested 
neither had been damaged by the leak in November. Miss P complained  again  and pointed  
out that it was so long since the leak that the carpet and rug had dried  largely through  her 
own efforts  to heat the house  and the time that had passed.
L&G reconsidered its decision  and said then as it didnt know  when the damage had 
occurred it would meet this part of Miss Ps claim.  It also acknowledged  the service  that had 
been provided wasnt as it should  have been and offered £50 for this and the delays. 
Miss P remains unhappy that she wasnt to be told the outcome of her complaint about the 
contractor. L&G explained that it wasnt able to share this sort of information.  Miss P also 
told us she thought L&G should pay for the cost of additional electricity and gas used  to dry 
the house, and for the cost of her phone calls and her time. We asked L&G to consider this. 
It said it would pay for the calls if she provided  some evidence of the cost, but that it wouldnt 
Ref: DRN09939462pay for her time. It didnt agree to pay for the fuel, as there had been no recommendation for 
extra drying from either report it had received from the visits.
Miss P hasnt accepted this and she and Mr P brought  their complaint to us.
Our investigator thought L&G had done  enough.  She thought the compensation was fair, 
and that as there had been no recommendation by either the surveyor or the contractor  that 
additional drying was needed  in the house L&G need not pay for this. 
Miss P and Mr P remain unhappy so Ive been asked to conclude  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to comment on every point Miss P has made, and instead Ill concentrate  on 
the main points shes raised. I can assure  Miss P Ive read everything  weve  been sent.
Miss Ps main  concern appears  to be delays in dealing with the claim and communication  
issues, the attitude of one contractor and the fact that L&G wont pay for some additional 
heating she and Mr P used to dry the house after the leak.
Miss P made two separate complaints to L&G. One was in mid January 2018  as detailed in 
the background section above. L&G offered some compensation for the problems it had 
caused which Miss P accepted. L&G passed her comments on about the contractor   which  
is what Id expect it to do when a complaint is made about someone it doesnt employ. I think  
L&G handled this part of Miss Ps complaint fairly.
When Miss P said she didnt think L&G had fairly rejected her claim in February, it did 
reconsider its decision. Again thats the right thing for L&G to do. I accept that this took a 
little time, but I dont  think thats unreasonable.
Miss P hadnt asked  L&G to pay any extra costs shes  had  thats gas, electricity,  phone 
bills and for some towels  until shed brought the complaint to us. We asked it to look at 
these points, and I think L&Gs  response was reasonable when it said it would pay for phone  
calls if Miss P can provide  sends some evidence that these were an additional cost. Theres 
been no suggestion the house needed  extra drying,  which would normally  be contained in a 
surveyors report, so I think it fair for L&G to not pay for this. And it is unfortunately the case  
that dealing with an insurance  claim  does take time. Id only ask L&G to compensate Miss P 
and Mr P for any additional inconvenience  it caused, and Im satisfied its done  that within 
the extra compensation it offered.
Miss P also complained  about the way L&G handled the complaint she made to it. But as our 
investigator already  explained, this service isnt able to look at how complaints themselves 
are handled.  So this decision is only about the way the claim was dealt with and whether 
L&G has treated  Miss P and Mr P fairly.
Overall Im satisfied L&G have acted reasonably, in that the compensation offered and offer 
to cover phone  costs is fair.
Ref: DRN09939463my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0993946