K821x#15Complaint
Ms R complains about advice she received from Harrington  Wood Bath Limited  (Harrington 
Wood) to switch her existing Personal  Pension Plan (PPP) to a new Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). She considers that the advice was unsuitable.
Background
In August  2011  Harrington  Woods  Confidential Questionnaire recorded that Ms R:
Was 48 years old. This was incorrect however, she was aged  50. She was also 
divorced
Was a Grocery/Newsagent shop owner with a turnover between  £400,000-500,000
Had a mortgage  on her own home
Held a Standard Life PPP 
Had an aggressive attitude to risk (ATR)
Harrington Wood received  information about Ms Rs existing PPP in November 2011. 
Amongst other things, this confirmed  that:
Ms Rs current  fund value was £113,308.95; 52.8%  of which  was invested in 
Standard Lifes  Pension With Profits  Fund , with the remaining  47.18%  invested in its 
Pension Millennium With Profits Fund
Ms R was making monthly  contributions of £40. Her plan included Contribution 
Protection Benefit  
Ms Rs plans selected retirement  age was 55 years old
Ms Rs transfer value was £122,193.51
In April 2012 Harrington Wood  sent Ms R its recommendation. In summary its letter said:
It understood Ms R wanted to investigate  the possibility of converting [her PPP] into 
a [SIPP  for] more investment choice and freedom
Ms R already had plans for how she wanted to invest money within  a SIPP  and didnt 
require any advice  from it regarding this. She merely needed advice  on the pros and 
cons of this course of action and assistance establishing the SIPP
Ms R anticipated working  to age 65. Other than her state pension entitlement,  her 
PPP was her only pension provision
Ms Rs PPP had no explicit  annual  management  charge  (AMC)  and was invested  in 
a variety of different  assets. Most of the value of her fund was guaranteed not to fall 
at her chosen retirement age and bonuses, once added, were guaranteed. A final 
bonus, which wasnt guaranteed, would be earned on maturity
Standard Lifes Pension With Profits  Fund  was guaranteed to attract  a minimum 
bonus of 4% per annum.  There  was no such minimum  guarantee with the Pension  
Millennium With Profits Fund
Ms Rs plan didnt appear to contain  guaranteed  annuities or any other  special 
features which  would make [Harrington Wood] suggest maintaining it in its current 
form
If Ms R switched  out of her PPP, shed lose the capital guarantees she was 
benefitting from; shed  also lose the 4% annual  growth rate guaranteed  on nearly half 
Ref: DRN03617712her fund. But if Ms R was happy to accept this Harrington Wood  was happy to 
recommend that [she] proceed and transfer
It recommended the Lifetime SIPP as it would permit a very wide range of 
investments which [would] suit [Ms Rs] requirements
It enclosed information  about Lifetimes  fee structure which was very competitive. 
The annual fee was £600 before  any investment charges. Harrington Woods fee for 
executing the transaction  would be £600
The running costs  of the SIPP  would  be cheaper  than the total cost of Ms Rs existing 
plan. However, this didnt include any investment management costs
It cautioned that some investments available to SIPP investors might be illiquid,  
unregulated and therefore outside  of the scope of the Financial Services  Authority 
(FSA), the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and Ombudsman.
It provided the necessary forms if Ms R wished  to proceed with the transaction and 
enclosed a Lifetime SIPP illustration
In May 2012  Harrington Wood  sent Ms Rs completed SIPP application  forms to Lifetime. A 
new SIPP  was set up on 30 May 2015, to which Ms Rs PPP funds were transferred.
Several months later and following the involvement of two unregulated parties,  £60,000 of 
Ms Rs SIPP  funds  were invested in Argentinian farmland. A further £60,000 was later 
invested in store pods.
In January 2018 Ms R complained (via a claims management company) to Harrington Wood  
about the 2012 advice  she received.  The following points were  made:
Harrington Wood failed to discuss, record and address Ms Rs investment objectives 
Harrington Woods fact find lacked information  and didnt demonstrate it met the 
regulators requirement to know your client
Ms R had received  bad advice to switch; the SIPP had only been used to facilitate 
unregulated investments
Harrington Wood responded to the complaint in March 2018.  In summary it said:
Ms R wanted to transfer her PPP to a SIPP to satisfy her investment requirements
It was engaged to look at whether there were any penalties  or guaranteed benefits  
associated with Ms Rs PPP that would be lost if she transferred and if there werent 
any, it was to facilitate  the transfer
Ms R didnt  want any advice on her future investment plans, and these werent 
disclosed to it. She instructed it to facilitate the switch  to a SIPP and Harrington 
Wood complied with these instructions
Based  on the questionnaire she completed, Ms R had an aggressive ATR, meaning 
she was prepared to accept high levels of risk with security being a secondary  
consideration. This was consistent with the investments Ms R later made
It noted Ms R had received a distribution  payment in November 2013 for her 
farmland investment, but nothing  since. Her store  pod investment had produced 
rental income up until January 2018
Although it understood Ms Rs farmland investment  was unlikely to realise any value 
in the future, her SIPP  had valid title of the storage pods which  were  producing  a 
rental income. So, there  was no financial loss as a result of the latter investment
Without any admission of liability, it was prepared to offer Ms R £42,998  to settle  her 
complaint
Ref: DRN03617713Ms R rejected Harrington Woods offer. She disagreed that placing a full value on her store  
pod investment was fair and noted  that Lifetime, along with other  SIPP providers, had valued 
it at £1. She also commented on the fact the investment was illiquid.
Harrington Wood responded and put forward a new offer. It acknowledged the store pod 
investment was illiquid but said this was a normal characteristic of commercial  property 
investments. It didnt accept the investment had no value but was prepared to make a cash  
offer to compensate for its lack of liquidity. The offer was £25,000 (less 20% tax), giving a 
total net offer of £62,998. 
Unhappy with Harrington Woods  response, Ms R referred her complaint to our service.  One 
of our adjudicators considered the complaint and said it should be upheld. She didnt think 
Harrington Woods advice to switch  to a SIPP was suitable and considered that as well as 
the switch, it shouldve also considered where  Ms Rs funds were to be invested.  
Ms R agreed with our adjudicator, however Harrington Wood  disagreed. It accepted  that 
pension switching advice  should now consider the overall investment strategy  but said this 
wasnt mainstream practice at the time of its advice.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
My findings
I apologise to both parties for the length of time weve had this complaint and thank them for 
their patience. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding Ms 
Rs complaint. Ill explain  why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note 
of the extensive  arguments made,  Ive limited my response to the issue  I consider to be 
central to this complaint. That is to say, whether the advice Harrington  Wood  gave Ms R was 
suitable.
The regulators position  
Harrington Wood recorded that Ms R wanted  to investigate the possibility of switching from 
her existing PPP to a new SIPP for more investment choice and freedom. It noted Ms R had 
her own plans for how she wanted to invest her SIPP funds and therefore said she didnt 
require advice from Harrington Wood regarding this. Harrington Wood  says Ms R 
instructed it to arrange the SIPP and facilitate the transfer of her PPP funds to it, subject to 
there being no penalties incurred or special features worthy of retention. It considers its 
recommendation suitable on the basis that it met Ms Rs objectives and advice 
requirements.
Further to Harrington Woods advice, a Lifetime  SIPP was set up for Ms R and her PPP 
funds transferred and made available for investment. Subsequent  to this and following the 
involvement of two unregulated parties, almost  50% of Ms Rs SIPP funds  were  invested in 
South American farmland,  with most of the remaining  funds being  invested in store pods.
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Harrington Woods advice 
to switch was suitable.  And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it 
sought to. Harrington  Woods recommendation had to take into account the suitability of the 
investments intended  to be held within the SIPP. Without this Im not satisfied it could make 
Ref: DRN03617714a reasonable determination about  whether the switch  was in Ms Rs best interests. Alerts 
issued by the regulator in 2013 and 2014 demonstrated it took the same  view. Its position 
was clear in the 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
The regulators 2014 alert added:  
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will () switch 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying  
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Harrington Wood appears to have been  under the impression that, as Ms R seemingly had 
her own plans regarding  the investment of her SIPP funds and because it may have  told her 
it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide 
advice on a restricted basis. But this wasnt right.  It couldnt separate  out the two elements. 
Its advice on the suitability of the switch had to include  the suitability  of the underlying  
investments. I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding  the regulators position  on the 
matter.
Harrington Wood says it accepts pension  switching advice should now consider  the 
intended investment  strategy but argues that this wasnt mainstream practice  at the time. I 
acknowledge Harrington Woods position on the matter but Im afraid I dont accept  this 
negated its duty to assess  the appropriateness  of the investments the SIPP it recommended  
was intended  to hold. 
Im aware the regulators alerts Ive referred  to above were  published  after Harrington 
Woods 2012 advice,  however they didnt reflect any changes  to existing regulations. They  
simply restated principles that already applied and were in place. Both alerts  specifically 
referred to the regulators overarching  Principles  for Businesses (PRIN)  and Conduct  of 
Business Rules  (COBS) which existed prior to and at the time of Harrington Woods advice. 
And with reference  to PRIN and COBS  the alerts  said a firm would fall short of its obligations 
under these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy  and 
that it wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Ref: DRN03617715Under COBS 2.1.2 Harrington Wood also couldnt  seek to exclude or restrict its duty or 
liability to Ms R under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating  under a limited 
retainer didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure  the advice it was providing  was suitable 
 again, this had to include  consideration of how her funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Harrington Wood to take reasonable steps to make sure its 
recommendation was suitable for Ms R. To achieve this, COBS  9.2.2R said Harrington 
Wood had to obtain enough information from Ms R to ensure its recommendation met her 
objectives, that she could bear the related investment risks consistent with these objectives  
and that she had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved 
in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Harrington  Wood had to understand Ms Rs objectives  
(two of which were recorded  as more investment choice and freedom) and the related risks. 
It wasnt free to ignore how Ms Rs funds  were going  to be invested irrespective of her 
having her own investment plans. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be 
the risks related  to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a switch without knowing 
what a customer would  invest within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind  seem reasonably 
possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Harrington Woods advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting  business  
with integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Harrington  Woods advice  with these in mind.  
 
Where Ms Rs funds were invested
Having followed Harrington Woods advice to switch  to a SIPP,  £60,000 of Ms Rs SIPP 
funds were invested in Argentinian farmland, with a further £60,000 invested in store pods. 
The farmland investment involved purchasing cultivated land with the option  of selling it back 
over a period  of five years. For the five-year investment  investors would receive a fixed  
annual payment rising  from 9% to 15%, ending with the return of their original investment 
plus 66% profit. The store  pods investment allowed investors to buy storage  units  in a facility 
and like the farmland  investment offered  high guaranteed levels of income for a set period. 
After that, investors  could  either take whatever income the units provided or, assuming there  
was a market, sell them. 
Risk and reward are inextricably linked, and in my view, schemes offering the level of return  
Ms Rs investments did can reasonably be assumed to be high risk. Especially at a time 
when interest rates  were generally  quite low  in 2012 the Bank  of England  base rate was 
0.5% a year.  The investments  also shared enough  of the characteristics of unregulated 
collective investment schemes  (UCIS), for the regulators  2010  alert to be relevant. As well 
as saying these  types of investments were  only eligible for promotion  to certain customers  
(generally sophisticated, high net worth investors), the report, as an example, said that, even 
Ref: DRN03617716when a customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved 
limiting a clients exposure to these  investments  to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In 
Ms Rs case,  almost all her private retirement provision was invested in farmland and store 
pods. I dont think either investment was suitable  for Ms R, let alone in the proportion  
invested. 
In addition to being unregulated, both investments also strike me as being non-mainstream,  
speculative and not readily realisable. And given that a substantial proportion  of Ms Rs 
pension money  was tied up in just two schemes,  in one asset  class  liable to fluctuate, there 
was very little diversification and therefore  increased  risk.
Although Harrington  Wood didnt specifically advise Ms R to make her farmland or store  pod 
investments, it doesnt consider they were unsuitable. Indeed, it says the investments Ms R 
made following its advice  matched  her ATR, which it said was aggressive.  But based on 
what was known of Ms R in 2012,  I dont agree. And I dont think describing Ms R as an 
aggressive investor, which Harrington Wood defined as someone prepared to accept  a 
higher degree  of risk for whom security  of benefits [was a] secondary consideration and 
who could tolerate higher levels of volatility,  was an accurate characterisation  of the level of 
risk she was prepared  or able to take.  
I appreciate Harrington  Wood determined Ms R had an aggressive ATR by posing  several  
questions to her, but I dont think the ATR assessment shouldve  been based solely on this. 
Other factors  also needed  to be taken  into account, including  an analysis of Ms Rs overall 
circumstances and existing investments.  Harrington  Wood  shouldve  also questioned why 
Ms R suddenly wanted to use her only private pension to invest with more freedom and 
choice, compared  to the options available under her existing arrangement.
Its also worth noting that Harrington Woods ATR questionnaire said, The following 
questions are designed to help you identify  the level of risk that you are prepared  to accept. 
The level of risk you are prepared  to accept is very important, as this will enable your 
consultant to provide advice on the investments that suit your  own circumstances 
[emphasis added]. I consider that from statements like this, it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable for Ms R to believe Harrington Wood had borne in mind where she might  
invest as part of its overall advice. 
Ms R was a standard retail investor and aside from her state pension entitlement,  the value 
of her PPP appeared to represent her sole retirement provision. There  was no record of Ms 
R having any other savings or investments and although she was a shop  owner, the shop 
had been purchased with a mortgage against her own home. The turnover of the shop was 
recorded as £400,00-500,000, however  no indication was given about the level of profit 
generated from this. Harrington  Wood also failed to gather any information  about Ms Rs 
existing or anticipated  income and expenditure. 
Overall, there was nothing  about Ms Rs circumstances to suggest she was the type of 
investor non-mainstream investments  might be deemed appropriate for or that subjecting  her 
only retirement provision  arguably  one of, if not her most valuable  asset   to illiquid, 
narrowly concentrated assets, could reasonably be justified or deemed  anything but 
unsuitable. Theres nothing to indicate  Ms R had the requisite knowledge or experience  to 
accept or understand the risks associated with the types of investment in question.  And Im 
mindful that Ms Rs PPP was invested  wholly in With Profits  funds. This doesnt suggest to 
me Ms R was an aggressive investor.
Ref: DRN03617717In my view, had Harrington Wood considered where  Ms Rs SIPP funds were to be invested 
within the context  of her overall circumstances, I think it wouldve been apparent the switch 
was unsuitable  and would lead to Ms R being  exposed to more risk than she could afford  to 
accept. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Harrington Woods  advice 
turns solely on where Ms Rs funds were ultimately invested. Harrington Woods  
recommendation that Ms R switch to a new SIPP in the first place  is an important 
consideration. And were it not for the switch and Harrington Woods  incomplete  advice 
regarding this, Im not persuaded  Ms R wouldve gone on to invest as she did.
Was the advice to switch suitable?
I accept that Ms R seeking  advice may indicate she was open to switching,  however  I dont  
think this meant switching was automatically the best route  to go down. I believe the fact she 
was seeking financial  advice more likely demonstrates Ms R was only willing to switch  if it 
was appropriate.  And thats what I think she wanted  from Harrington Wood  confirmation  of 
what was in her best interests with regards to her PPP funds.  As Ms Rs regulated financial 
adviser, Harrington Wood had the significant and overriding responsibility to provide suitable 
advice. She clearly wasnt a pension  expert  and understandably she was wholly reliant  on 
Harrington Woods expertise. She had the right to expect  it to act accordingly.
Ms Rs objectives
Harrington Woods suitability letter stated Ms Rs objectives were to investigate the 
possibility of switching  to a SIPP for more investment choice and freedom. It said Ms R 
wanted advice  on the pros and cons of switching and its assistance  establishing  a new 
SIPP. Harrington Wood says Ms R instructed it to arrange the SIPP  subject to there being no 
penalties or guaranteed benefits, worthy of retention. It also says Ms R specifically wanted 
to transfer to the Lifetime SIPP to satisfy  her predetermined  investment  requirements. 
Im not satisfied the way Harrington Wood has sought to characterise  how it was engaged  by 
Ms R is a fair reflection of the circumstances. In particular, Ive seen no evidence  which  
shows Ms R gave Harrington  Wood the specific instructions it says she did. The suitability 
letter said Ms R wanted to investigate the possibility of a switch.  But to me, investigating a 
potential switch is very different to giving specific instructions to switch.  And with regards to 
Harrington Woods suggestion  Ms R had made  up her mind about switching and only 
needed to know  whether  she was giving up worthwhile guarantees, I think this shows a lack 
of understanding  on Harrington  Woods part about what was required of it. It had a duty to 
consider the suitability of the overall  transaction taking into account  Ms Rs circumstances, 
objectives, needs and what it shouldve reasonably determined her ATR and capacity  for 
loss were  the latter  of which Harrington Wood didnt appear to consider at all. It couldnt 
limit its advice to just finding  a suitable  SIPP, saying that as Ms R had already decided what  
she wanted to do, it simply carried out her wishes regardless of whether it was in her best 
interests. I should also say that Ive seen nothing  to indicate Ms R specifically wanted to 
switch to a Lifetime  SIPP as it says she did.
Very little detail  appears  to have been  collected  by Harrington Wood regarding Ms Rs 
objectives and what these meant  for her in real terms.  For example,  Harrington Wood  didnt 
identify what more  investment choice and freedom looked like for Ms R in practice, in 
comparison to the options she had under her existing PPP. And without seeming to know 
where Ms Rs funds would be invested, its not clear  to me how Harrington Wood  could 
Ref: DRN03617718determine the new SIPP would afford Ms R the greater choice and freedom she was seeking 
or that this lined up with what was appropriate for her. There was nothing  to suggest Ms R 
was experienced  in making specific investment decisions, such  that shed  be well placed to 
do this without any advice.
Although I appreciate retirement planning  may have regard for an individuals general 
preferences, its primary focus  should  be a consumers personal  circumstances with a view to 
putting them  in the best possible  position at retirement, with the appropriate income 
provision in place  long-term. So, it wasnt Harrington Woods  role to simply justify  and make  
the switch happen because it appeared to cater to Ms Rs purported  objectives. To meet the 
regulators requirement to know your customer, Harrington Wood  had to collect  information  
regarding Ms Rs specific objectives, rather than relying on the generic ones she may have 
put forward. It also needed to determine which of Ms Rs objectives were pressing  
requirements, such that taking additional risks with her only pension  provision  was 
worthwhile and identify  those which were nice to haves and didnt make taking a gamble 
advisable. 
I consider that if, as it says it did, Harrington Wood learned Ms R intended  to transfer her 
entire private  pension  provision to a SIPP to invest with more freedom, it shouldve  made  it 
clear that taking such a risk was inadvisable; or, if it had made enquiries  as it shouldve 
done  and discovered exactly  where Ms R intended  to invest via the SIPP,  it shouldve  
advised her against  it  on the basis there was a reasonably foreseeable risk of large or total 
losses.
Harrington Wood couldnt provide Ms R with comprehensive advice about the merits and 
drawbacks of switching  without first investigating and gathering  information  about Ms Rs 
ceding arrangement. It seemed to at least partly recognise the importance  of this as some 
information about Ms Rs PPP and where  she was invested was provided in Harrington 
Woods suitability letter. However,  Im not satisfied Harrington Wood went far enough in 
terms of ensuring Ms R was in possession of enough relevant information to put her in a 
position to make an informed decision about  whether to switch or not.
Information Harrington Woods suitability  letter  did capture included the current value  of Ms 
Rs PPP; where her funds were invested; guarantees associated with this and the plans 
costs. Although recorded correctly, Harrington Wood failed to draw  or set out any meaningful  
conclusions from the information it gathered. For example, it didnt make any substantive  
comments about the features of Ms Rs plan in relation to her needs and objectives; the 
extent to which these  were being  met; or if they werent, what the potential  options were to 
ensure her PPP, or other  alternatives did. Thus potentially  avoiding the additional  costs  and 
charges associated with switching  to a new SIPP arrangement.
Theres nothing to indicate Harrington Wood explored or recorded important factors  such as 
how Ms Rs existing SIPP had been performing; what her anticipated income  requirements  
in retirement were likely  to be; whether  her existing scheme (as it was currently invested) 
was likely to meet this or the investment  returns shed possibly be targeting  from any 
replacement scheme. Without exploring and addressing these  key issues, Harrington Wood, 
in my view,  ended up falling considerably short of its aim to provide  Ms R with a balanced 
assessment of whether transferring was in her best interests. And in doing so it couldnt 
realistically meet its obligations under COBS 9.
In the circumstances, I wouldve also expected Harrington Wood to produce 
projections/illustrations to retirement for Ms Rs existing PPP and the recommended SIPP. 
Ref: DRN03617719These wouldve  helped  it to determine and Ms R understand whether  her objectives were 
realistic and if switching  was likely to be worthwhile in the long-term.  But from what  Ive 
seen, Harrington Wood failed to carry out any such analysis or collate  enough information  to 
do so. 
Although an illustration was produced by the SIPP provider it advised  Ms R to switch to, 
Harrington Wood made no commentary  about  what  the illustration showed or the information 
it was based on. Im also mindful that the illustration  didnt  appear to factor in things which 
Ive already said Harrington Wood shouldve been aware of, such as where Ms Rs SIPP  
funds would be invested or the associated costs of this. Without this information, the 
illustration gave a distorted picture of the sustainability and financial viability  of the switch 
Harrington Wood was recommending. And the lack of any relevant corresponding 
projection/illustration for Ms Rs ceding  scheme  prevented any useful comparison being  
made between the two schemes. The illustration for the new SIPP  was based on a 
retirement age of 65, whereas the retirement projections for Ms Rs ceding  scheme  were  
based on a retirement  age of 55. 
Harrington Woods suitability letter recorded  that Ms R was at the time contributing £40 per 
month to her PPP. However,  no reference  was made  about  whether this was likely to 
continue at the same rate or stop going  forward; what  the impact  of this might  be and the 
extent to which it had been factored into Harrington Woods recommendation. Harrington 
Wood also appeared to completely ignore the value  of the Contribution Protection Benefit Ms 
R had on her PPP which wouldve covered payment of future regular payments if illness or 
disability prevented her from working.
While Harrington  Woods suitability letter did refer to the capital guarantees and guaranteed 
4% annual growth rate Ms R was entitled  to on over 48% of her PPP fund,  it failed to offer 
any view about the value of these guarantees (potentially in monetary terms to retirement  
age) or the level of growth any new scheme without such  guarantees would need to achieve 
to at least match the projected returns  of the ceding  scheme. Harrington Woods  only 
comment to Ms R regarding the loss of the guarantees was, If you are happy  to accept this 
then () I am () happy to recommend that you proceed and transfer ().  But I dont think 
this was right. Ms R apparently being happy to accept the loss of guarantees wasnt a 
legitimate basis for Harrington Woods satisfaction  or advice she should switch.  
Consideration also needed  to be given to whether Ms R was in a position  to give up such 
guarantees  which wouldve provided a degree of security to her retirement planning  for a 
gamble. Im not persuaded she was. Notwithstanding Ms R apparently wanting to switch for 
greater investment choice  and freedom, I dont think this meant Harrington Wood  didnt need 
to give any consideration to what  Ms Rs future  position in retirement might be if she 
switched and what the loss of her guarantees could mean. In this respect Harrington Wood 
didnt do what it said it set out to do  i.e. to inform Ms R of what, if any, features  or 
guarantees were  (or werent) worthy  of retention. It failed to outline the specifics  of what 
these all were or provide  any reason for why, given  Ms Rs circumstances and objectives,  
none of these were  worth  preserving.
While Harrington  Wood said it was engaged  to advise Ms R on the pros and cons of 
switching  to be clear, I think its responsibility went further than this  its not clear to me 
how this could reasonably be achieved without  tangible  evidence. The fact find and 
suitability letter lacked  key information and in my view this resulted in Harrington Woods 
advice to switch  being made on a rather precarious basis. This was a significant  transaction, 
the importance of which  I think the basis and content of Harrington Woods  advice failed to 
reflect. 
Ref: DRN036177110Harrington Wood didnt set out in any detail, the alternative options  (under  Ms Rs PPP or 
those available  elsewhere) it considered before determining switching to a SIPP was the 
most suitable action  for Ms R to take.  And judging by the narrow  focus of Harrington Woods  
suitability letter and its belief  without any evident  justification  that a new SIPP  would suit 
her requirements, it seems to me Harrington Wood approached the matter of providing 
advice with a preconceived  agenda  that Ms R switching to a new arrangement to make 
certain investments  was the best possible solution for her. I dont think this was correct. 
If the primary driver  for its switching advice was so Ms R could invest  her only private  
pension assets  in a specific way, Harrington Wood needed to fully understand, assess  and 
clearly outline the benefits (and drawbacks)  of taking such action. It wasnt  appropriate for 
Harrington Wood to just rely on what Ms R apparently said she was interested in doing and 
make it happen. Its not also not clear to me how Harrington  Wood  was able to say the new 
SIPP it was recommending and the wide range of investments it permitted would suit Ms 
Rs requirements when  it clearly made no effort to identify what  her investment needs  or 
preferences were.
Ive considered the information Harrington Wood provided Ms R with regarding the costs of 
her ceding  scheme  and those associated with the arrangement it was recommending. And 
again, I think this lacked the detail  and clarity required.   
Harrington Wood confirmed its one-off fee for arranging the new SIPP would be £600. It said 
the annual SIPP administration fee would also be £600 and that this represented an annual  
running cost of 0.40% before any investment charges. In conclusion  Harrington Wood  said, 
at this level the running costs of the SIPP would be cheaper than the total cost of your 
existing plans. However, this does not include any investment management costs and 
therefore any future investments the SIPP makes  will most likely add to this cost and 
therefore it will [be] necessary for them to grow by more than the existing funds  order [in] to 
match the returns from your current arrangement [sic].
While Harrington  Wood was right to say investment charges would likely increase the cost of 
the SIPP, I think it was misleading for it to say, in the first instance, that the cost of running 
the SIPP would be cheaper than the total cost of Ms Rs PPP.  Ms Rs PPP had no explicit 
running costs or additional expenses. When the PPP with profit value was calculated,  
deductions for costs  (including for the funds Ms R was invested in) were already taken into 
account. Conversely,  Harrington  Wood hadnt considered any of the costs  of Ms Rs 
intended investments  made via the SIPP. So merely setting out the costs  of the investment 
wrapper and comparing this to the cost of another investment wrapper  plus the investments 
it would  hold was deceptive. After  all, the main  purpose of a wrapper  is to hold an 
investment. To make a finding on the cost of the wrapper alone only served  to present a 
partial and inaccurate  picture of the cost of the overall arrangement. 
In my view, not properly  taking into account the impact (potentially in the form of projections 
to retirement) of the costs  of the new SIPP and intended investment strategy, meant 
Harrington Wood didnt take appropriate steps  to ensure the suitability of its 
recommendation. It needed  to justify any potential costs as a result  of the switch in light of 
Ms Rs needs and objectives and present this in a way Ms R was likely to understand. The 
cost of the switch  along with SIPP and investment charges would all play a role in 
determining what Ms Rs investment returns would  ultimately be. So, weighing  up the costs 
associated with its recommendation was a crucial part of Harrington Woods consideration of 
Ref: DRN036177111the suitability of its advice. Any additional costs needed to be acceptable in terms of the 
specific benefit Ms R needed.  Harrington Wood made no attempt to do this.
Harrington Wood had a responsibility to challenge Ms Rs objectives and not accept them  at 
face value. I cant  see that it did this and I dont think Ms R was provided with a clear picture 
of the extent of what was already available  under  her existing plan compared to the 
perceived benefit of switching  to meet her objectives. So overall, Im not satisfied it was 
appropriate for Harrington Woods reasons for the switch, which  in my view werent  
compelling justifications, to be the basis for its recommendation. 
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Harrington Wood  
covered some of these.  However, disclosure  isnt the same  as suitability and in my view 
Harrington Wood shouldnt have gone on to recommend the switch. What  Harrington Wood  
did share about the risks was brief and vague at best when it shouldve been  extensive and 
explicit. For example, it cautioned  Ms R that some  investments available to SIPP investors  
could be unregulated and therefore  outside the scope  of this service,  the regulator  and the 
FSCS. However, Harrington Wood failed to go any further, either in terms of identifying 
exactly where Ms Rs funds would be invested  before advising on the switch or explaining  
what its warning could  really mean  for Ms R in practice. 
Im not satisfied theres sufficient evidence of adequate due diligence by Harrington Wood  on 
this occasion.  In my view,  it failed to take reasonable steps to collect, record  and assess 
essential information in order to ensure the advice it was providing to Ms R was suitable. 
Unfortunately, this subjected Ms R to real risks and had serious consequences.  I think  the 
losses shes experienced couldve largely been avoided had Harrington Wood  carried  out an 
appropriate investigation at the outset.
Harrington Wood had a responsibility to act in her best interests. I dont think it did this when, 
in addition to other  shortcomings, it helped facilitate the transfer all of Ms Rs private pension 
provision to a new SIPP.  In particular, I have to question  how Harrington Wood  could 
consider whether a switch to a SIPP was a more suitable alternative to Ms Rs existing plan 
when it didnt seek to establish what the intended investments were. Im not satisfied it 
exercised the reasonable skill and care required regarding  the transaction  that took place or 
that it fulfilled  its duties under COBS.  
Ms R was reliant on professional and suitable advice. If this had been  given,  I think it more 
likely than not that it wouldve been followed, and Ms R wouldnt be in the position  she is 
now. If Harrington Wood made  further  enquiries  and uncovered  Ms Rs investment plans, it 
shouldve advised  her against  such a course of action as clearly  unsuitable. As a 
professional adviser,  Harrington  Woods recommendation wouldve carried  significant  weight 
and could, I believe, have dissuaded  her from proceeding with the switch  and subsequent  
investments. I accept its possible Ms R may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I 
think, at the very least, if Harrington Wood had advised against,  that wouldve  made  Ms R 
think about things.  Alternatively, had Ms R proceeded  against such advice, Harrington Wood  
couldve discharged  its professional responsibility  to her appropriately. For example, it 
couldve treated her as an insistent  client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Ms R was 
acting against  the advice  shed been given.
I recognise the switch  to the new SIPP was completed in May 2015 and the investments 
werent made until August and November 2012. So, it can perhaps be argued that Ms R did 
have time to change her mind. But I dont think she had any reason not to go ahead. After 
all, Harrington Wood had recommended  the switch on the basis Ms R was going  to invest 
Ref: DRN036177112more widely. It then dealt  with the switch  which put Ms R in the position  to proceed as shed  
apparently planned. So, I dont see why Ms R wouldve thought  again about  the switch  or 
investments. I cant see that anything  occurred which wouldve given her pause for thought.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Ms R are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided  by Harrington Wood.  And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont 
believe Ms R wouldve gone ahead with the pension switch or invested almost all of her 
transfer value  in commercial property.  
I recognise that it can be argued third parties actions may have also separately caused 
some of Ms Rs losses. So Ive considered whether I should apportion  only part of the 
responsibility for compensating the loss to Harrington Wood. In the circumstances, though,  I 
think apportioning  responsibility to Harrington  Wood for the whole of the loss represents fair 
compensation in this case. The third parties who appeared  to arrange for Ms Rs fund to be 
invested in the unsuitable investments  were unregulated businesses. This service  has no 
jurisdiction over the unregulated businesses, so their responsibility isnt something Im able 
to determine here.  This shouldnt impact on Ms Rs right to compensation from Harrington 
Wood for the full amount of her loss. And taking into account the greater responsibilities 
which fell on it as the regulated business,  I dont think  it would be fair to reduce what  it has to 
pay in respect of Ms Rs losses  to take into account the involvement of the unregulated 
businesses. I should however say that if Harrington Wood  wants to pursue the third parties 
for contributory losses having compensated Ms R in full, then its free to do so.
Despite the potential influence of third parties over Ms R, I consider it more likely  than not 
that, had Harrington  Wood warned  Ms R against  the switch and commercial  property 
investments, properly explained the associated risks and ensured she understood there was 
a real chance she could lose all her pension and shouldnt categorically be doing this, she 
wouldve listened. I dont  accept that anything  a third party  did was an intervening  act which  
completely absolves  Harrington  Wood of its liability for Ms Rs losses.  
Im upholding Ms Rs complaint. I think the redress the adjudicator suggested was in the 
main fair and reasonable so, largely,  Ive adopted  it. 
Fair compensation
My aim is to, as far as possible, put Ms R back in the position she would probably  now be in, 
if Harrington Wood, as her financial adviser, had met its responsibilities to act in her best 
interests, treat her fairly and reasonably  and provide suitable  advice. 
I think Ms R would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable.
What should Harrington Wood  do?
To compensate Ms R fairly,  Harrington Wood must:
Compare the performance of Ms Rs investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Harrington Wood should add interest  as set out below.
If there is a loss, Harrington Wood should pay into Ms Rs pension  plan to increase its value 
Ref: DRN036177113by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If Harrington Wood is unable to pay the compensation  into Ms Rs pension plan, it should 
pay that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms Rs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. 
For example, if Ms R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms R would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Ms R £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the failings that occurred.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Harrington Wood deducts  income  tax 
from the interest, it should tell Ms R how much  has been taken off. Harrington Wood  should  
give Ms R a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP Still existsFTSE UK Private  
Investors  Income 
Total Return  
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of my final 
decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market). Where this 
applies, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. 
Harrington Wood should take ownership of any illiquid investments by paying a commercial  
value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Harrington Wood is unable to purchase  the investment  the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of the calculation. Harrington Wood may require that Ms R 
provides an undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive  from the investment in the 
Ref: DRN036177114future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Harrington  Wood will need to meet any costs  in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Harrington Wood totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.  
SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should 
Ms R wish to move  her investment portfolio) and further SIPP  fees to be prevented,  the 
investments need  to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Harrington Wood  taking  over the investments,  or this is something that Ms R 
can discuss with her SIPP provider  directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties,  I think its fair that Harrington 
Wood pay Ms R an upfront lump sum equivalent  to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated 
using the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable period  for the parties to 
arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Compensation for seeking further advice
Our adjudicator originally  proposed that Harrington Wood  should also pay Ms R £600 for 
advice on whether to set up a new personal pension. I dont agree. Generally, the purpose of 
redress in situations  like this is to put the consumer, as far as possible,  back  in the position 
they would  probably now be in but for unsuitable advice. Part of this means the consumer 
gets back the original  fee they paid for the advice. This is taken into account in the loss 
calculation Im directing  Harrington  Wood to carry out along with the five years worth of 
SIPP fees it will need to pay if the SIPP cannot  be closed as a result of the investments held.
As I consider this to be a fair and reasonable remedy, I wouldnt expect Harrington Wood to 
pay the cost of fees in the event  Ms R chooses to seek further  advice following the payment 
of the redress. So the award  Im making doesnt  include payment  for the cost of seeking 
further advice  as the adjudicator originally  suggested. Ms R has accepted this.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ms R wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
Ref: DRN036177115with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms Rs circumstances  and risk attitude.  
My final decision  
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Harrington 
Wood Bath Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should  
be calculated as set out above.  My decision is that Harrington Wood  Bath Limited should 
pay Ms R the amount  produced  by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or  inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above. 
If Harrington Wood Bath Limited does not pay the recommended  amount, then any 
investments currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Ms R. This is until any future  benefit  that 
she may receive from the investments  together with the compensation paid by Harrington 
Wood Bath Limited (excluding any interest) equates  to the full fair compensation as set out 
above. 
Harrington Wood Bath Limited may request an undertaking from Ms R that either she repays 
to Harrington Wood Bath Limited  the net amount she may receive  from the investment 
thereafter, or if possible, transfers the investment at that point.
Ms R should  be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension  plan so she 
may have  to realise  other  assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Harrington Wood Bath Limited pays  Ms R the balance plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Harrington 
Wood Bath Limited. It is unlikely Ms R can accept my decision and go to court  to ask for the 
balance. Ms R may want to consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding  
whether to accept  this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0361771