K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain they were wrongly told by Santander UK Plc their mortgage would 
be portable and they wouldnt  have to pay an early redemption charge  when  they moved 
house.
 
background
In late 2015 Mr and Mrs D took out a repayment  mortgage with Santander for a term of 33 
years.
Mrs D rang Santander in November 2017  before their initial fixed  interest rate product was 
due to end. Mr and Mrs D were thinking of moving house the following year and were  likely 
to want to borrow more  than the amount of their existing mortgage.  Before taking  out another  
fixed interest rate product,  Mr and Mrs D wanted to know whether porting a fixed  or variable 
rate mortgage would be best and whether an ERC would  be payable in either case.  
Santander told Mrs D all its mortgages  were  portable without any fees being charged.
Following the call Mr and Mrs D applied for a new two year fixed interest  rate product for 
their existing mortgage. When they wanted to port their mortgage  in 2018, Mr and Mrs D 
thought they couldnt  pass Santanders affordability assessment and didnt go ahead with an 
application. They decided  to take out a new mortgage with another  lender and had to pay an 
early redemption charge  (ERC)  of over £6,500 to Santander. They  say they wouldnt have 
gone ahead  with the application for the new fixed interest rate product with Santander if 
theyd known this would  happen.
 
Mr and Mrs D want Santander to waive the ERC. Their  complaint to Santander theyd been 
badly advised  in November 2017  wasnt upheld so they brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs D 
were unhappy  with our investigators opinion so Ive reviewed everything afresh.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs D spoke to Santander on 3 November 2017 she explained Mr and Mrs Ds fixed  
interest rate product  was coming to an end the following February. She said they were 
looking to fix the rate again. Mrs D explained  they were planning to move house the 
following year. She mentioned shed looked at some of the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage about porting if they wanted  to borrow the same  or less money. But she said it was 
likely Mr and Mrs D would want to borrow more as they wanted to move to a bigger house. 
And she asked whether,  in that case, it was better to have a fixed  or variable rate or whether 
both of them came  with an ERC. 
The Santander representative Mrs D spoke to said if Mr and Mrs D were borrowing more, 
theyd be able to port their existing mortgage  on the same rate and borrow  an additional 
amount at a rate to be decided. She said no penalties whatsoever would be payable  and 
Mrs D shouldnt worry about  being  tied into a fixed rate as all Santanders  products were  
portable. 
Ref: DRN06280022Mr and Mrs D say the reason for ringing Santander was to check  if theyd have to pay any 
fees if they did want to port their mortgage before going ahead  with the application for a new 
fixed rate. Theyre unhappy  the Santander representative didnt mention on the call theyd 
need to go through an affordability  check to borrow more money. And they say if theyd  
known theyd have  to pay an ERC  they wouldnt have tied themselves  into another fixed  
interest rate product.
Santander argues  Mrs Ds enquiry was a general  one and there was no discussion about Mr 
and Mrs Ds account. 
I can understand why Mrs D was reassured by her conversation  with the Santander  
representative that she and her husband wouldnt have to pay an ERC  if they chose to port 
their mortgage given the language the representative used. But I can also understand why 
the Santander representatives  answer to Mrs Ds questions focussed  on what  would happen  
if Mr and Mrs D borrowed more money.  Mrs D asked a specific  question about that. On 
balance, I think the Santander representative shouldve  mentioned  Mr and Mrs D would 
need to meet Santanders lending and affordability  requirements to port their mortgage 
whether or not they borrowed more  money, and an ERC  would be payable if they didnt meet  
those requirements and paid off the mortgage.
But, I think its important to look at what happened after the call to decide if Mr and Mrs D 
have been treated fairly.
Mr and Mrs D went ahead  with an on-line application for a new fixed interest rate product  
with Santander.  They received a Conversion Offer (the offer) from Santander which set 
out clearly the ERC theyd have to pay if the mortgage was repaid before February 2020. 
It also said:
What happens if you move  house?
If you move  house, you may be able to transfer  this mortgage to another  property as long as 
you meet  the conditions  set out in the mortgage  conditions booklet under Transferring your 
loan to a new mortgage.  You must also meet our lending criteria and pass  our affordability 
assessment at that time.
I think the offer made it clear enough  Mr and Mrs D might be able to port the mortgage but 
only if they met Santanders lending and affordability requirements at the time they made 
their application  to port. And it also made  clear the terms and conditions could be read on-
line which  I think Mr and Mrs D would have found  convenient  since they made  their 
application in that way.
The offer gave Mr and Mrs D 14 days to decide whether or not to go ahead.  So they had 
time to think  about whether theyd be able to satisfy the requirements when they came to 
move the following year and whether they wanted  to risk being unable to and having to pay 
an ERC. And if they didnt understand what those requirements might be Mr and Mrs D had 
time to ask Santander  to explain before they accepted the offer. 
Mr and Mrs D accepted  the offer and benefited  from the fixed  interest rate until they decided  
to move in 2018.  They  didnt  go ahead  with an application to port in 2018 as they didnt think 
theyd be able to provide  the enough  income information to satisfy Santanders affordability 
criteria. So we dont  know if Santander  wouldve agreed to their application. But Mr and Mrs 
D decided to go ahead with buying  a new house  and taking out a mortgage  with another  
Ref: DRN06280023lender knowing  theyd have to pay the ERC to Santander if they did. I appreciate theyd 
planned to move in 2018. But they had a choice about going ahead with the move then and 
couldve delayed it to avoid paying the ERC.  
Bearing all the circumstances in mind, I think  Santanders treated Mr and Mrs D fairly and I 
dont uphold their complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0628002