K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about an instalment loan he took with Uncle  Buck Finance LLP. Mr M 
says this loan was unaffordable.
background
Mr M took out one loan with Uncle Buck in August 2018 as detailed  below. 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest  
Repayment 
Amount
1 19/08/2018 Outstanding 6 £500.00 £146.64
Our adjudicator thought Uncle Buck hadnt done anything wrong when providing Mr M with 
his loan. He explained that Uncle Buck  gathered  adequate information and there wasnt  
anything within that information that was cause for concern. Mr M disagreed  and explained 
that he had multiple  other short-term loans at the time. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman   for a
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I dont  think Uncle  Buck has treated Mr M unfairly 
or that it should  pay him compensation. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M 
and Id like to explain why I think this is the case.
Mr M was provided with a high-interest loan, intended for short-term use. So Uncle  Buck 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Uncle Buck needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  
any lending  was sustainable for Mr M before  providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In his complaint  Mr M says that Uncle Buck didnt lend to him responsibly because he 
already had a number  of short-term loans as well as other  credit  commitments.  He says had 
Uncle Buck  carried out proper checks  it wouldve  seen he couldnt afford the loan. Mr M also 
says Uncle  Buck didnt  verify his income  and expenditure. Overall,  Mr M says the lending  
had a negative  impact on his financial situation and health.  
Ref: DRN07770222Uncle Buck  says that it carried  out adequate checks  by gathering  details of Mr Ms income 
and expenditure.  It also carried out a credit check. And based on this Uncle  Buck says it 
didnt see anything to alert it to any sustainability or affordability issues for the loan it gave  
Mr M.
Its important to note that when Mr M took out his first loan with Uncle Buck  it doesnt seem  
that he had an existing relationship with them. The loan was to be repaid over 6 instalments
of around £146.64.  Mr M had told Uncle Buck  that his monthly income was around £1,933 
and he had a reported expenditure of £925.  I cant see anything to suggest  that Uncle Buck  
had reason to question  the information it had about Mr M or verify  it. Looking at the monthly 
repayments in light of Mr Ms declared disposable income its difficult for me to conclude that 
Uncle Buck  was wrong to decide that the repayments would  be affordable sustainably for 
Mr M. 
Uncle Buck  carried out a credit check on Mr M. I understand Mr M has provided  details of 
the loans he had taken out prior to this one with Uncle  Buck and that these wouldve been  
present on his credit check. However,  looking  at the results of the check carried out by 
Uncle Buck  only one other short-term loan was on his record and two other credit  facilities.  
And taking  into account Mr Ms commitment  under these it still seems his loan with Uncle 
Buck was affordable. I dont doubt  what Mr M has said about his multiple other loans, but 
credit files can take some time to be updated and the information recorded on them  can vary 
depending on the credit  check platform used. So I think Uncle  Buck acted reasonably  by 
carrying out this check and based  on the information it gathered  at the time I cant  see that 
there is enough to alert it to any financial issues for Mr M. 
I appreciate Mr Ms comments about the impact this loan had on him, but I havent  seen 
anything to make me think Uncle Buck acted irresponsibly in the circumstances of his case.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Uncle Buck  LLP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0777022