K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the confusion caused by TSB Bank plc when they 
tried to make a claim  under their travel  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R had a travel policy  through their bank account with TSB. Very sadly,  their son 
had died and so Mrs R needed to cancel  a holiday that she had booked. Mr R attempted  to 
make a claim. However  TSB told him, as he was over 80 years of age, he was no longer 
covered under this policy. 
TSB later said Mrs R was still covered, as she was under  80 years of age but she had to 
make the claim herself. TSB also said they should contact the insurer  also. 
Mr R complained and TSB simple  said in its final response letter he wasnt  covered given he 
was over 80 years of age. Mr R complained his correspondence wasnt replied to and he 
spent far too long on the phone trying  to sort things out. He also complained  that when he 
visited the branch  they didnt help him either.
So he brought his complaint to us. The investigator  was of the view TSB could have 
provided a better service  to Mr R and explained  things better. He thought TSB should  pay Mr 
R £50 compensation.  TSB didnt agree so Mr and Mrs Rs complaint has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, I wish to apologise  to Mr and Mrs R for having to wait so long for my decision. I also 
want to offer my sincere condolences on the sad death of their son, which  gave rise to this 
claim on their travel  insurance policy and indeed  their complaint.
Mr and Mrs R held a joint account with TSB, which gave them this travel insurance  cover.  
TSB said they wouldnt go into details of Mrs Rs account with Mr R due to DPA issues  but it 
was a joint account so both of them had the same  access to this account.
Mr R was trying to make the claim  on his wifes  behalf. It was her flight  and it doesnt appear  
Mr R was going with her on this trip. The cancellation came  about as result  of their sons  
death, which is a very significant and tragic life event. There is no evidence  before me that 
TSB provided any coherent customer service  to Mr R when he made  his initial  enquiries 
during what must have  been extremely difficult circumstances for both him and Mrs R. 
It simply refused to deal with his claim on the basis  he rather than the other account holder 
Mrs R was over 80 years  of age. It didnt make  any effort to elicit further details from him as 
to the circumstances of his either  his claim or his subsequent  complaint.  Its final response 
letter didnt deal with the circumstances of his complaint, at all in my view. I dont consider 
thats adequate customer service.  
Ref: DRN01963512Therefore, I think TSB should pay him the £50 compensation  recommended by the 
investigator. Should Mr and Mrs R accept  my decision, then TSB are bound  to have to pay 
them this compensation.
I am pleased  to note that finally Mrs Rs claim has been paid by the insurer.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr and Mrs R the sum of £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0196351