K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc took over five months to restore his online banking;  
it failed to investigate  a suspected data breach and it didnt manage  his complaint(s) 
properly.
 
background
In January 2019 Mr A received a phone call, supposedly  from the bank, that he correctly  
suspected was fraudulent. So he ended the call, blocked his debit card online, and let the 
bank know. He asked  for an investigation explaining that the caller  had access  to information 
only the bank  should know. He agreed  to cancel his debit card and online banking  access.  It 
then took weeks  for Mr A to get a working  replacement debit card and months for his online 
banking access to be restored. During  this time he had to call and email the bank many 
times and visit a branch twice. As well as being unhappy with how long it took the bank to 
replace the card and re-instate his online banking, he says the bank failed to respond to his 
concerns about  the data breach. And the compensation  it offered was not appropriate.
The bank accepted it had made some errors  it explained that Mr As new card was blocked 
as it was ordered just after he called about  the fraudulent call, and around this time a third 
party tried to fraudulently  remove  the temporary block  he had placed on it. It paid him £250 
in February 2019  to recognise the delay he experienced receiving a new working card.  In a 
second letter  it explained that the advisers Mr A spoke to when he called about the problems 
re-registering for online banking failed to spot that his access  was suspended due to the 
potential fraud he reported, and this needed to be reversed by the fraud  team. For the 
inconvenience this had caused it paid £50 in June 2019.
Mr A said this wasnt enough and asked why the bank still hadnt investigated the data 
breach. The bank paid an additional  £100 in July 2019 to recognise  that it hadnt  acted  on Mr 
As email of 19 March  2019, prolonging the length of time he was without online banking.  It 
said it couldnt know how the fraudster obtained his information, but gave  details of different 
ways this can happen.
Mr A remained unhappy  with this response  so brought  his complaint to us. Our investigator 
said whilst  HSBC had made mistakes, she thought  the final position was fair  it had 
acknowledged its errors, apologised and paid a total of £400 compensation. This was in line 
with what she would  have  awarded  in these  circumstances.  And she said it was reasonable 
it couldnt explain exactly how the third party had obtained Mr As data.
 
Mr A disagreed saying  whilst hed received £400  from the bank in 2019, £150 was for a 
different and separate issue in September 2019. And that he was unhappy with how the 
bank had addressed his concerns about the access the fraudsters had to his data.  He asked 
for an ombudsmans  review so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons.
HSBC made  errors that inconvenienced  Mr A significantly  not lifting the block code before 
sending a new card, not recognising the fraud suspension on his online banking,  not 
Ref: DRN06452522responding to his email about  his online  access  and not responding initially to his concerns 
about how his information had been  accessed. But it has acknowledged this and 
compensated Mr A. I think the total payment  of £400  (£250  for the inconvenience  caused by 
the debit card delay  and £150 for the inconvenience caused  by lack of access  to online  
banking) is fair and reasonable.  Ive thought  about  the time he had to spend trying  to resolve 
the issues and the impact  of having restricted use of his banking services during this time.
In response to our investigator Mr A implied by not accepting  the two separate offers in June 
and July of £50 and £100 he didnt received these payments. But the banks letters of 
10 June and 31 July 2019 make clear  that his account was credited with these two amounts. 
He should contract  the bank directly if for some reason those payments didnt reach  his 
account. The £400 our investigator  referred  to did not include the separate payment of £150 
for a different  issue  in September 2019.
With regards to Mr As request for an investigation  into the fraudulent  call, I understand why 
he would  like more information about  how the data, in particular what he terms the security 
sensitive data was accessed. So I anticipate he will be very frustrated and disappointed by 
this, but I dont think there is more I can instruct the bank to do. As it has said, it cant  
provide an exact  answer to how the fraudster obtained the information it had, or how it 
masked the phone  number  and displayed it as a bank number. HSBC has given information  
on different ways fraudsters can obtain  information, but unfortunately it cant know exactly 
what happened in this case.  It did prevent Mr A from suffering any financial loss. And Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that the bank has uncovered something it does not want to 
share, as Mr A said.  I do agree it could have  addressed his question more promptly,  but it 
has recognised  this. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0645252