K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com 
(Aviva) has settled  a claim on his car insurance policy. 
background
In June 2017 Mr B was involved  in an incident with another car while  he was in Italy. Mr B 
says his car had stopped on an uphill traffic light when the back of other  drivers car hit the 
front of his car. He says he paid the other driver 50 euros to fix the damage  on their car. 
Mr B says he only found out that Aviva had settled this claim on a fault basis when he moved 
to a different  insurer.  
Aviva says it did notify Mr B of its decision to settle the claim. It says Mr B responded to the 
notification of the claim accepting that there  was a scratch  on the other drivers car. It said 
Mr B had also signed a statement of fact (constat)  in Italy which set out the circumstances of 
the incident. Because of this it says it couldnt successfully defend  the claim. 
Mr B wasnt  happy so he brought the complaint to our service.  One of our investigators 
thought that Aviva had investigated  the claim fairly  and reached its decision in a reasonable 
way so they didnt recommend the complaint  be upheld. 
Mr B didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. He says that he 
already paid the other driver for the damage  to their car so Aviva shouldnt  have settled  the 
claim. So the case has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment  to Mr B but Ill explain my 
reasons why.
Mr Bs policy  has a term which  allows  Aviva  to take over and settle a claim as it sees  fit. 
This means  Aviva might make a decision  to settle  a claim which  Mr B doesnt agree with, but 
the policy allows this to happen.  
Firstly I should set out that its not my role to decide who was at fault for the incident. I can 
only look to see if Aviva made its decision on how to settle the claim fairly and reasonably 
and in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
Mr B says Aviva shouldnt have settled  the claim because he paid the other driver for the 
damage to their car at the time of the incident.  He says he did this as it was only 50 euros  to 
repair the damage and he didnt want to claim through his insurance.  
Mr Bs liability and the claim amount were decided by the Ufficio Centrale Italiano  (UCI).  This 
has the authority  to settle incidents  which occur in Italy involving a vehicle registered in a 
different country.  It seems Aviva didnt try to defend the claim. It says it couldnt  have done  
so successfully. 
Ref: DRN03777752Ive considered the information Aviva has based that opinion on. This includes a constat  
form Mr B signed. It describes the circumstances of the incident. It indicates Mr Bs car had 
hit the other driver.  Ive also looked  at the information about the repairs  and costs provided  
to Aviva.  And Ive thought about what Mr B provided  to Aviva and this service.  Having done 
so, Avivas view that it couldnt successfully  defend  the claim seems reasonable. So I cant 
say Mr B lost by it not doing so. And so its decision to accept liability was fair.    
I understand Mr B strongly disagrees  with Avivas decision. But I think  it acted reasonably  
when carrying out its investigation taking into consideration the available evidence  - and in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. So I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
Mr B says he wasnt aware that Aviva had settled  the claim until he changed his insurance. 
Aviva says it sent an email notifying  Mr B of the claim and that it will be settling it. I can see 
that Mr B responded to this email, so I think Mr B ought to have been reasonably aware  of 
the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0377775