K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about AXA Insurance Plc in relation to legal expenses cover  and a claim 
under a commercial  insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019  explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold this 
complaint. I explained  the background as follows;
There are two main points in dispute in this complaint; the first is that Mrs B thinks AXA has 
acted unfairly in not covering a claim she made  for legal assistance;  and the second  is that 
the policy was mis-sold  as the policy wording is unclear.
The background to Mrs B needing legal assistance  stems from her business selling and 
distributing various retail  products. She received a letter from lawyers acting for a third party 
alleging that Mrs B was selling  counterfeit goods in breach  of Trade Marks. For clarity Im not 
making any determination about  whether the goods  were counterfeit.
AXA acknowledged to Mrs B that she had a valid policy but declined  her claim (which was 
lodged as a contractual dispute) because lawyers AXA had obtained a legal opinion from 
pointed out some difficulties; the policy didnt cover claims arising out of intellectual property 
disputes and in the lawyers opinion Mrs Bs dispute related to intellectual property / 
copyright infringements. 
Mrs B wasnt  happy with this so the matter was reviewed again. This review  maintained  that 
the claim wasnt a contractual dispute  but a dispute  over intellectual property.   
Mrs B made a complaint to us and one of our investigators looked  into the matter. She didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold and ultimately  wasnt satisfied that AXA had sufficiently 
shown the intellectual property exclusion applied. She asked to see the advice AXA had 
relied on but this wasnt sent by the deadline(s) the investigator had set. So she concluded 
that AXA should obtain another  legal  opinion, and if this supported  there being a valid claim 
then AXA should  refund Mrs Bs solicitor fees incurred  in dealing with the matter  against the 
third party.
AXA then provided  an opinion from the solicitors  it had instructed from March 2018 which 
explained Mrs Bs claim wasnt covered by her policy;
 Mrs Bs previous  solicitors had written to the third partys  representative  relating to a 
breach of intellectual  property  rights  concerning the sale of a particular product
 The proposed claim was neither the pursuit  nor defence  of a contractual  dispute as 
Mrs B hadnt entered into a contract  with the claimant.
The parties didnt  agree a resolution and so the matter has been passed to an ombudsman.
And my provisional findings were set out as follows;
Ref: DRN01882342my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Im particularly mindful of the relevant 
industry rules (ICOBS) around  the rules and guidance when selling an insurance  policy.
Mrs Bs policy covers  a number of areas including the building she works from, the contents 
within (both home and business), business interruption  and legal expenses. The relevant 
section for the claim to AXA is under  the legal expenses section of the policy.
Like all insurance policies  there are a number of restrictions and these are detailed  in the 
policy and explain when  AXA wont cover certain  claims. Mrs Bs legal expenses  cover her 
for contract  disputes,  employment  disputes,  criminal  prosecution  defence, property disputes, 
proceedings arising from Data Protection,  tax protection including  tax investigations and VAT 
disputes and statutory licence. Under  each section is a description of the exclusions to each  
section of cover, and theres also a general  exclusions section  which applies to the legal 
expenses cover. General exclusion 8 applies to any claim arising out of intellectual property 
or breach of confidentiality or passing off actions whether related to intellectual property or 
not.
The issue  lawyers acting  for a third party challenged Mrs B about  concerned  Trade  Mark 
infringement. The legal  advice  AXA received was to the effect that a Trade  Mark dispute is 
an intellectual property  dispute and so excluded by the policy.  Im not persuaded the advice 
is obviously wrong and so Im satisfied  it was fair for AXA to rely on the legal advice. And for 
the avoidance of any doubt  the official UK government  website  says copyright, patents, 
designs and trademarks [my emphasis] are all types of intellectual  property protection.
It is for AXA to decide what types  of dispute it wants to offer insurance cover for and it has 
set this out clearly  in the policy documentation. Im not persuaded that it was unfair of AXA to 
decline Mrs Bs claim given it was an issue about  intellectual property. 
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Bs point  that the policy was mis-sold. Ive listened to the call 
between AXA and her husband when the policy was described.  And Ive considered  emails  
between Mrs B and AXA.
The legal expenses  part wasnt mentioned by AXA and Mrs Bs husband didnt inquire about 
legal expenses cover. The crux of the call concerned  product  liability  for worldwide sales and 
issues about stock  levels and domestic  home insurance. Im not persuaded that AXA gave 
misleading information about the level of cover  in the policy. And the cover it provided was in 
keeping with what was requested. And the emails 
The issue  of product liability is, in the main, about  product safety and if a consumer of 
Mrs Bs product been harmed then the policy would cover her in the event of litigation. But 
product liability isnt about intellectual property rights.
Under the policy Mrs B was eligible to make a variety of claims in relation to her home and 
business activities and the exclusion involved relates to a small sub-set of potential issues a 
business like Mrs Bs might encounter. Im not persuaded  the exclusion about  intellectual 
property disputes  is of such significance that it should have been  specifically highlighted. 
Mrs B says she bought  her products from reputable  wholesalers. So I think its very unlikely 
she ever thought shed  be accused of selling counterfeit products or needed protection  from 
Ref: DRN01882343such. Whether Mrs B has a contractual dispute with the business that sold her the products 
in question is not an issue in this complaint so not one I need  to make a determination  about.  
And Im unaware if Mrs B has pursued  that matter. But taking everything into account Im not 
persuaded the policy was mis-sold.
There are a couple of other points Mrs B has raised  which I think are worth addressing. 
Mrs B says that it took two legal teams some weeks to decide whether she was covered. 
And in such circumstances how could a lay person (like Mrs B) be expected  to understand 
the policy? And she also says that as she told AXA she was a retailer then it should cover  
her for all aspects of buying and selling stock and the issues that may arise  from this. 
There was only one legal opinion given and this quickly  identified  that the policy didnt cover 
Mrs Bs claim. It may be that Mrs B thinks the claim handling agent that first dealt with her 
was a legal  team but thats not correct. She submitted a claim for a contractual  dispute and 
the claim handler said that such disputes are covered  and referred it to lawyers  on that 
basis. It wasnt the claim handlers job to carry out a legal opinion and wasnt wrong  to say 
contract disputes are covered. The fact is it wasnt  a contract dispute.
In an email to AXA, when buying  the policy, Mrs B noted that the proposed policy  didnt have 
Business all risks cover. AXA didnt give an explanation of what  this cover  would provide. In 
the policy documents it explains;
Business All risks
In the event of loss or damage to the Property Insured the Company will  pay the cost of 
repair or the current replacement value without  deduction for wear and tear provided all 
necessary repairs or replacements are carried out without delay provided that the Sum 
Insured is sufficient to replace the Property Insured as new.
So even if this cover  was explained  and in place, Mrs Bs dispute  about an intellectual  
property issue wouldnt be covered.
Mrs B has referred to a part of the policy that says Tailor-made for Your  business,  and she 
says this supports  it being a comprehensive policy  that should  cover her legal issue.  But the 
phrase also says Our Working from Home  Insurance Package  provides a combination of 
standard and optional  covers to best suit your needs. None of the options covered 
intellectual property disputes and Mrs B had selected a number of options to be included.  It 
was tailored to what she had required.
Insurance policies  dont  cover eventuality and thats  why theres a policy with terms and 
conditions setting out the cover and limits of the contract. Mrs B explained  what her business  
involved and that it was operated from home.  Issue of stock  were discussed and the 
territories within  which  the business  would operate. The information,  in my view, was clear,  
fair and not misleading. 
The policy covered the type of business  that Mrs B had as well as meeting the requirements  
for Mrs Bs home. The exclusion  for intellectual property disputes isnt, in my view, a 
significant restriction in the context of Mrs Bs retail business where  she purchases her 
products from reputable  wholesalers. 
Ref: DRN01882344replies to provisional decision
Ive only seen a reply from Mrs B in which she disagrees with my provisional findings.  In 
summary she says;
She is an innocent party
She hasnt affected any intellectual property  rights by making counterfeit goods
Shes been scammed by a company  that she bought the products from
She should be protected for purchasing a basically faulty product
The exclusion is embedded in the small print and the policy  was in effect mis-sold.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this is a distressing situation  for Mrs B and having reconsidered everything, 
including the full details of her reply Im not persuaded to reach a different outcome.  I remain 
satisfied that the dispute is one involving intellectual property rights and that isnt covered by 
the policy. The exclusion in my view isnt significant as explained in my provisional decision.  
Whether Mrs B has a contractual dispute with the business that sold her the products in 
question is not an issue in this complaint so not one I need to make a determination about. 
And Im unaware if Mrs B has pursued  that matter either with the business that sold her the 
products or enquired  about the potential for such a dispute with the legal helpline  available  
through her policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0188234