K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay her 
claim under her pet policy. 
background
Mrs C held an annual pet policy  with RSA for her cat, which she decided  to cancel in March  
2019. RSA acknowledged this and wrote to her explaining her cover  under her policy would 
cease on 30 March 2019. 
However on 26 March  2019,  Mrs C took her cat to the vet because she had broken a tooth. 
The vet said it had to be extracted.  This wasnt done until 2 April. Mrs C made her claim to 
RSA and it said any vet fees incurred up to 30 March were covered but since  she cancelled  
her policy,  no cover  was provided  for any vet fees after 30 March.  The majority of Mrs Cs 
claim was for costs incurred after 30 March.
Mrs C complained but RSA would change its stance.  So Mrs C brought  her complaint  to us. 
The investigator was off the view RSA should pay Mrs Cs claim. RSA disagreed.
So Mrs Cs complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so. Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
This is a very finely balanced situation.  Clearly  Mrs C wanted  to cancel her policy with RSA 
instead of renewing  it, so she was fully aware she would  have no ongoing cover for her cat 
after 30 March. On that basis I dont consider RSA was wholly  unreasonably in taking the 
view that any vet fees incurred after 30 March werent covered, given Mrs C was no longer 
paying any premium  for any cover  and clearly didnt want to be insured under this policy 
anymore.
However under this policy,  what triggers the cover is an illness or injury to the covered  pet 
requiring the policyholder to incur  vet fees. This clearly happened here with Mrs Cs cat 
within the policy period and was clearly diagnosed then too by Mrs Cs vet. 
Had the vet been able to extract  the tooth that day or even the next day, RSA would have 
paid Mrs Cs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy,  as there 
would have been no reason not to. The injury  occurred  within  the policy  period, and I 
consider here that means the trigger for the insured event occurred within the policy period. 
Therefore on a fair and reasonable only I consider RSA should pay Mrs Cs claim.  As its not 
Mrs Cs fault her vet couldnt  immediately  provide  the services her cat required after he 
diagnosed the issue and decided on the treatment. Theres no evidence that this delay in 
treating her cat was the fault of Mrs C. Had there  been such evidence I would not have 
upheld this complaint.
Ref: DRN04594322I appreciate RSAs views  on this matter, but I think in the particular circumstances  of this 
complaint, its fair and reasonable that it pays Mrs Cs claim subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. As the investigator explained, we assess each complaint on its 
own facts and merits and are therefore not bound by previous decisions. 
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to do the following:
Pay Mrs C claim subject to remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I believe Mrs C has paid these vet fees, therefore interest of 8% simple per year 
should be added from the date Mrs C paid her vet these costs to the date it refunds 
her. If income tax is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate  documentation  
should be provided to Mrs C for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0459432