K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited applied exclusions to his private medical 
insurance policy almost a year after he took it out and refused to refund his premiums when 
he then cancelled the policy.
background
Mr G switched his private  medical  insurance  from another provider to Vitality  in March 2017.  
And he made a claim for treatment to his left knee in January 2018. 
Vitality gathered information about  Mr Gs medical history as part of its assessment of his 
claim. And, based  on this, it refused the claim and added two exclusions  to the policy.  Mr G 
didnt think that was fair and cancelled his policy from the renewal date in March 2018. He 
was unhappy  when Vitality then refused to refund  the premiums hed paid since  taking out 
the policy the previous year.
Our investigator didnt  think Vitality  had done  anything wrong,  but Mr G disagreed  so the 
case has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and like the investigator,  
I dont think Vitality has done anything wrong   Ill explain why.
Should Mr G have  answered the health questionnaire differently and was it fair for Vitality to 
refuse the claim and add the exclusions?
The relevant  law applicable to this complaint is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and
Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA applies to disclosure and representations by a 
consumer to an insurer before they enter into or vary a consumer contract  of insurance. And 
CIDRA says its the consumers duty to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation to the insurer in response to its questions. One of the relevant 
considerations is how clear and specific  the questions are.
If a consumer  doesnt take reasonable care in answering the insurers  questions,  the insurer 
can refuse to pay the claim or it can pay it proportionately. To do this the insurer must  show 
that it either wouldnt have covered the consumer  at all or would have done so on different 
terms.
With this in mind, Mr Gs policy  was set up on a continued personal medical exclusions 
basis. This means that any exclusions on his previous insurance policy  would be 
automatically carried over to his new policy. But Mr G doesnt appear  to have had any 
exclusions on his previous policy, so no exclusions were carried  across  to his policy with 
Vitality.
But, in addition to the above,  when he applied for the policy Mr G completed an application 
form which asked him a number of questions.  The form explained that Vitality usually relied 
solely on the information provided  therein along  with the applicants recent certificate of 
insurance. It explained the importance of answering  the questions  honestly and fully and 
warned that:
Ref: DRN02450002Failure to do so may result in a claim not being paid, your underwriting  terms being  
changed, your cover  being  cancelled and/or any treatment  costs already paid by us being 
reclaimed.
Mr G was asked:
In the last three years have youexperienced symptoms, received medical advice or 
treatment (including  prescribed or over the counter medication)  for:
a)Heart  conditions?
d)Osteoarthritis (wear  and tear arthritis)  or inflammatory arthritis (e.g. rheumatoid  
arthritis)?
I think this question is sufficiently clear and specific so Ive gone on to consider whether 
Mr G took reasonable  care when answering it.
Mr G answered  no to both questions but Vitality  said the medical evidence suggested he 
should have answered yes. I dont  think it was wrong of Vitality to query this with Mr G or 
apply the exclusions. I say this because:
Mr G says he hadnt sought advice in relation to his heart condition within the previous  three  
years so he thinks it was correct to answer  no to that section of the form. I have no reason  
to doubt what  he says. But that isnt exactly what he was asked.  The way the question  is 
phrased means Mr G shouldve answered yes not only if hed received  medical  advice, but 
also if hed been  having treatment which included prescribed or over the counter medication. 
And Mr G has confirmed   as do the medical  records  that he has been on prescribed 
medication for his heart condition for at least 10 years. 
Mr G also says he wasnt formally diagnosed  with osteoarthritis until January 2018, after his 
policy started so, again it was right to answer  no to that part of the question. But, again, that 
isnt what the question asked. It asked if hed experienced  symptoms or received medical 
advice in the previous three  years  and I think the medical evidence suggests  those two 
things had happened. 
Mr G saw his GP in early  2016 (a little over a year before his policy  started) because hed 
been experiencing pain in his left knee  for several months. His GP referred him to an 
orthopaedic surgeon but Mr G says the pain had gone completely by then so no diagnosis 
was made,  or treatment  recommended,  by the specialist. He says it was a different pain that 
began in August  2017 and which ultimately led to his claim in January 2018.
But the doctors letters and notes dont  entirely support what Mr G has said:
The orthopaedic surgeon he saw in early 2016  did say the pain in his left knee had 
more or less completely settled in the last few days.  But he also said Mr G almost  
certainly had osteoarthritis  in the knee  and may need an operation  in the future. 
In December 2017 he was referred to another orthopaedic surgeon.  His GP said hed 
had trouble with both knees in the past and the left knee had really flared up over 
the last year or so. 
The orthopaedic surgeon diagnosed Mr G with arthritis in both knees  and noted  the 
pain in the left knee  had flared up over the last eighteen months or so.
Ref: DRN02450003On the claim form Mr Gs GP said his left knee had been particularly debilitating over 
last 12 months.
I think it was reasonable  for Vitality to rely on the medical evidence. And, while I dont think  
Mr G deliberately misled Vitality, I do think that if hed answered differently when he 
completed the application that the Vitality would have applied  the two exclusions from when 
the policy started in 2017.
As I think  the exclusions have been  fairly  applied  it follows  that Vitality  did nothing  wrong  in 
refusing Mr Gs claim.
Should Vitality have refunded all of Mr Gs premiums?
Mr G paid all of the premiums for the first 12 months he held the policy with Vitality.  But once 
Vitality confirmed the exclusions would be applied he cancelled  his direct debit instruction 
and that meant no premiums were taken after the policys scheduled renewal date. The 
policy was then cancelled  back  to the renewal  date, but there were no premiums to return  
and the £40 mid-term cancelation  fee was waived.
Mr G wants all his premiums to be refunded, but I dont think  its fair to tell Vitality  to do this. 
Vitality provided cover  for 12 months  based  on the information Mr G disclosed in his 
application form. Had he made an eligible claim for anything  unrelated  to the two exclusions 
that were subsequently  applied then theres no reason for me to think Vitality wouldnt have 
paid out.
Also, while I appreciate Mr G may have stayed  with his previous insurer  rather  than 
switching to Vitality if hed know the exclusions  would be applied  I dont think Vitality can be 
blamed for not applying the exclusions sooner.  As Ive already said, it wouldve done  so if Mr 
G had taken reasonable care when answering the questions he was asked at outset.
The terms and conditions  allow a full refund of premiums to be paid if the policy is cancelled 
within 14 days of its start date. If its cancelled after that then Vitality  will refund only the 
premiums paid that relate to the period after the cancellation date. Mr G didnt cancel within 
14 days of the policy  start date and he didnt pay any premiums after the cancellation  date. 
So he isnt eligible for any refund  of premiums.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02450004
Ref: DRN0245000