K820x#14Complaint
Miss C on behalf of the estate of Mr C has complained about a life policy  that Mr C took out 
with Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited.  She is unhappy with the amount paid when Mr C 
passed away and she feels  Aviva should  have  sent Mr C a letter  notifying  him of when the 
amount paid in premiums  became more  than the sum assured.
Background
The policy was an over 50s life policy which was taken  out in 2002 by Miss Cs father, Mr C. 
The sum assured  was £480 payable on death,  whenever that would have been,  and the 
premiums were £21 per month.  Mr C sadly passed away in February 2019 at which point he 
had paid in just over £4,000 into the policy.  But the payment his estate received was the sum 
assured amount of £480.
Miss C complained on the estates behalf about the payment received. She felt that whilst 
her father signed for the policy,  he wouldnt  have  been aware of its conditions.  She thinks  
Aviva should  have sent him letters at the point the premiums surpassed the value of the sum 
assured to make him aware  this had happened. She also felt that when she was in contact 
with Aviva when her father had to be moved to a care home Aviva should have told her what  
situation the policy was in at that time. Overall, she felt Aviva had taken advantage of her 
father and was taking  advantage of vulnerable elderly people in general  with these types of 
policies.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
found the policy was sold to Mr C without any advice  being given so it was up to Mr C to 
ensure the policy  was right for him and was what he had wanted. He also felt that ultimately 
all Aviva was obliged  to do under the terms of the policy was to pay out the sum assured  
which is what it did. He also felt Mr C could have  calculated  when the premiums  he paid 
would have started to exceed the sum assured.
Miss C didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view Aviva should  have done 
more to make Mr C and herself  aware of the premiums exceeding the sum assured.
While the investigator considered her comments, he wasnt persuaded to change  his 
outcome. So as no agreement could be made the complaint has been  passed to me to 
review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I fully appreciate Miss Cs strength 
of feeling about this matter, I am unable  to uphold this complaint.
As the investigator  pointed out, the policy was sold on a non-advised basis.  So all Aviva had 
to do was to provide enough information so Mr C was in a position to make  a fully informed  
decision about whether this policy was what he wanted and whether it was right for him and 
his needs.
I think the paperwork provided to Mr C sets out clearly all the required information and even 
sets out that depending on how long the policyholder  lives more may be paid into the policy  
than is paid out on death.
Ref: DRN08398552So I do think  Mr C would  have been aware of the potential for this when he took out the 
policy.
I know Miss C feels Aviva  should have communicated to Mr C when the policy exceeded the 
sum assured. Whilst this would have been  useful and good  practice  neither  Aviva,  nor any 
business involved in these types  of policies, is obliged to do this. Also given  the amount of 
customers a business  would have to write to I dont  think this would be practical for any 
business to implement as a general  rule.
Ultimately, given the premiums were  fixed,  anyone taking this type of policy,  or indeed 
anyone taking over the affairs of someone  with this policy,  would have been able to work out 
that if the policy had been  in place for a long time the sum assured paid upon death was 
unlikely to be close to how much was paid into it.
I know Miss C will be disappointed by this but I dont think  her concerns about this type of 
policy and Avivas involvement can be addressed by this Service.  All we can do is 
investigate whether Aviva did anything wrong  in this case. And as I have explained given 
everything I have seen I think Aviva did all it had to in providing Mr C the information he 
required to make his own decision. And I dont think it needed to, nor would it be practical for 
Aviva, to inform all of its over 50s plan customers at the point at which their premiums  
started to exceed the sum assured  amounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C on behalf  
of the estate of Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 30 November 2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0839855