K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) applied unfair 
damage charges  after he returned his car at the end of a hire agreement.
background 
Mr T entered  into a car hire agreement  in 2015  with MBFS. At the end of the agreement he 
returned the car and an inspection was carried out. Mr T didnt agree with the damage 
recorded in the inspection. He says that the report mentioned charges for unsatisfactory  
repairs when he hadnt undertaken any repairs. While these particular charges werent 
applied by MBFS, charges for a cracked bumper and a scratched door were. Mr T says 
these charges were  excessive. He says the bumper didnt need  to be replaced and instead 
could have been repaired at a much  lower cost.
Mr T contacted MBFS about  the items in the inspection report and to discuss  cheaper 
repairs but he says it refused  to do so as the car had already been sold at auction.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that the charges for poor repair had 
been removed  and that Mr T had accepted the charge for the scratch  - which  only left the 
charge for the bumper in dispute. He said that as this damage had been evidenced he 
couldnt say that a charge  couldnt be applied.
Mr T didnt  accept our investigators view.  He reiterated that he didnt accept the final 
handover report.  He said that hed visited two Mercedes  dealerships  and an independent  
garage to discuss the report  and all three said the damage was exaggerated and that the 
bumper didnt need to be replaced. He said hed considered getting the back bumper 
repaired before  returning  the car but due to family issues this wasnt possible. He said hed 
received a repair quote of £200. He said the bumper wasnt  cracked but the paint had 
marked due to a very minor impact. He didnt accept  it needed to be replaced, and said it 
could have been repaired instead.
Mr T also complained about how the inspection was carried out and said his wifes request 
for the car collection  to be delayed until he returned  home wasnt  accepted. He said that 
when the car was collected his wife showed  the collection agent  the report  and he said it 
was harsh.  So Mr T contacted MBFS about this but it didnt call back. He was then told two 
weeks later that the car had been  sold without the bumper scratch  repair taking place.
Information about the conversations Mr T had with the other dealerships and garage  were 
provided to MBFS, but it didnt accept that this was sufficient to change its view about  the 
charges.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the charges  applied  to Mr Ts account  were  for a scratched door and a cracked 
bumper;
Ref: DRN03199532Mr T accepted that the scratch on the door was more than 25mm and I agreed this 
fell outside of normal wear and tear guidelines. So I found  it reasonable that this 
charge was applied; 
Mr T accepted that there was damage to the rear bumper  but said this was minor  and 
that the bumper  didnt  need to be replaced.  He referred to evidence from third parties 
supporting this view and said he had a quote  of £200 for repair.  MBFS said that the 
bumper had to be replaced rather than repaired due to a risk of the bumper losing 
structural integrity due to the damage. Having looked at the photographs of the 
damage I couldnt say whether or not the bumper  was cracked, as stated on the 
report, or whether the damage was less than, this as stated by Mr T;
no evidence was provided to show that the bumper was replaced before sale but I 
noted that even if repairs  hadnt  taken place before  the car was sold, MBFS could 
apply charges to reflect the loss of value caused  by the damage;
given the conflicting information about  the level of repair required to the bumper; the 
lack of clarity about the extent of the damage that could be seen from the 
photographs; and the lack of evidence regarding any loss of value in the car I found 
the fairest approach was to half the cost of this repair.  This gave a compromise 
position between  the two parties  views on the damage which I thought  was fair and 
reasonable.
My provisional decision was that the bumper repair cost would be reduced to £352.76, giving 
total charges of £562.76.
Mr T didnt  accept my provisional  decision.  He said that repairs  werent  undertaken before 
the car was sold and that he had given  contact details  for the people  who had provided 
quotes and advice that the inspection report was inaccurate but these contacts werent  
approached. He didnt accept the comments  made  by MBFS about the possible issue with 
the structural integrity of the bumper and referred  back to the information he had received. 
Mr T didnt  accept the had been treated fairly  and thought that given  the time that had 
passed without  contact this issue should have been  closed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the comments  Mr T has made  in response to my provisional decision,  
however I do not find that these change my decision. I say this because Mr T had accepted 
that the scratch on the door was more  than 25mm and so this falls outside of the fair wear 
and tear guidelines  and so it is reasonable this is charged for.
I note the comments Mr T has made  about the advice  he received in regard to the bumper 
and I have taken  this into account. I have  accepted  Mr Ts testimony  but I also have to 
consider the information provided  by MBFS in regard to the damaged bumper. The evidence  
is conflicting and because of this I find the fairest resolution it to halve the damage  charge for 
the bumper. This reflects that there  was damage  that could be seen  (and Mr T had said he 
initially received  a quote of £200) but also reflects the dispute  regarding the possibility of 
repair versus replacement.
Ref: DRN03199533I understand why Mr T is upset that these  charges  are being applied and the time taken for 
his complaint to be addressed. However,  overall  find that the fair resolution to this complaint  
is that the damage charge  for the bumper is reduced by 50% bringing it to £352.76 resulting 
in total charges of £562.76.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should reduce the 
charge for the bumper repair by 50% - bringing  the total charges to £562.76.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0319953