K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold  them 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.  They  say the policy 
wasnt suitable for them and they didnt need  it. But in any event they say they werent given 
the information they needed to make  a properly informed decision.
background
I dont intend to set out everything here  both parties  are aware of the circumstances 
leading up to this complaint and the adjudicator set them out clearly. But in summary:
Mr and Mrs S took out their mortgage  with Nationwide in 1988. It was later on in 1991  that 
they took out PPI. Its not entirely clear how the sale came about  because of a lack of 
evidence and paperwork from the time.  But both parties accept it most likely  happened in a 
branch meeting. I will address this point later on.
The PPI policy was set up in Mr S name only. It provided cover  for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment and had a monthly  benefit equal to Mr and Mrs S mortgage payment of 
around £190 a month at the time.  It would  pay out for up to 24 months  per claim and at the 
start it cost about £10 per month.  
The mortgage was redeemed and the account  closed in 1995. The PPI was cancelled  at the 
same time.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said that while  there was a lack of 
information about what happened, he felt Mr and Mrs S likely chose to take out the cover  
particularly as the mortgage  and the PPI started at different  times.  Overall he said he 
thought Mr and Mrs S hadnt lost out as a result of having the policy  and didnt recommend 
they receive any compensation.
Mr and Mrs S, through their representative, disagree. In doing  so they have made  several 
points, some of which I will specifically refer to below. But in essence  they believe the policy 
was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their needs and resources at the time and they 
neither needed  nor wanted it.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding Mr and Mrs S complaint.
But for the sake of completeness here - having  taken  into account the relevant law, industry  
codes of practice, relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time, in summary I think  all of this means 
Nationwide should:
Ref: DRN01414782have given Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information about the 
policy to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take it out, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and the significant limitations and 
exclusions so they could decide  if they wanted  to take it out.
and if Nationwide  gave advice they shouldve advised with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular  they shouldve made sure the policy was appropriate or suitable  for Mr 
and Mrs S needs and circumstances at the time.
If having considered  the above I find there were failings, I need  to go on to consider 
if, and to what extent, Mr and Mrs S have lost out and what fair compensation should  
be.
Firstly  its apparent that Nationwide cannot say for certain how the sale of PPI came about. 
It says it hasnt got any paperwork because the events  in question happened  over 25 years  
ago. I dont find this surprising  businesses arent obliged to keep records  indefinitely.
Mr and Mrs S in their original submission said things  happened in a meeting - albeit it seems 
to me they were referring to when they took the mortgage out, which  was three  years  prior to 
taking out PPI.
I can see Nationwide has suggested  Mr and Mrs S might have received a mailshot  with 
details about and an application  for PPI suggesting  this could have been a postal sale. And 
this seems possible to me given  it was around this time that lenders were promoting  these 
kinds of products because  of the changes being suggested and made to state benefits and 
the reduction in support for mortgage holders who found themselves out of work.
But Nationwide has also said its possible the sale happened during a branch meeting given 
the available  sales channels at the time.  
It strikes me as being unusual that Nationwide would invite  Mr and Mrs S into the branch for 
a meeting to discuss PPI out of the blue  it wasnt linked for example to further borrowing, 
which would make this seem likely. But it seems plausible that they might  have visited 
having been prompted by something.  For example it may even have been the case  that Mr 
and Mrs S received  a mailshot and then visited a branch to discuss things leading  to them 
taking it out.
So given this and on the basis that Mr and Mrs S testimony is that things happened during a 
meeting and Nationwide accepts this is likely  given  the available  sales channels,  I find on 
balance this was sale carried out during a meeting.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the cover to Mr and Mrs S and I can see Mr and Mrs S 
said it didnt in their original submissions to us. Their representative has subsequently said 
Nationwide wouldve advised them saying  it did so under the influence of the banks power.
 
Ive not seen enough to persuade  me that Nationwide did advise and make  a 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S to take out PPI. But I dont think making  a firm finding  on 
this matter is important to the overall  outcome of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN01414783I say this because  even if I was to find that Nationwide  recommended the policy, for the 
reasons I will set out later on I think the policy was ultimately suitable for them and there  was 
nothing wrong  with Nationwide recommending it to them.
Mr and Mrs S representative has told us during the course of this complaint that in relation 
to the interaction  with Nationwide about  PPI Mr and Mrs S would have felt under pressure 
and worried And: Our clients stated that they were given a form and told to sign here 
and here as you can imagine this would have been  very intimidating  for our clients.
Ive therefore  thought  carefully about this and whether Nationwide  made it clear Mr and Mrs 
S had a real choice  about taking out PPI and if they agreed to it without undue pressure.
Many of the problems the Financial Ombudsman Service  sees  in relation to this issue  
happen when  a consumer takes  out PPI at the same  time as the product  its protecting. In 
this scenario it is possible to see how a consumer  might be led, whether intentionally  or 
inadvertently to believe that both the credit  and the PPI are intrinsically linked thus taking 
away choice. 
In Mr and Mrs S case they didnt take out PPI at the same time as their mortgage - they took 
it out three  years later. So the scenario is very different here. And given the circumstances I 
set out above  as to how I think this sale likely came about, I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs S 
didnt understand  they had a choice about PPI. Theyd had their mortgage  without  PPI for a 
considerable period of time. And I find it unlikely  that they would have felt under pressure to 
take it out in the circumstances. It seems to me more likely that when  Nationwide  told them 
there was a product that would help protect  their mortgage payments if something  went 
wrong, this interested Mr and Mrs S and they then chose to take it out  and did so without 
undue pressure from Nationwide.
Moving on to what happened  at the time - because of the lack of paperwork and information 
about what took place, I dont know how PPI was introduced to Mr and Mrs S and if they got 
all the information  they needed  to make an informed choice about it. If they did receive a 
mailshot prior to their branch visit, then they might have read the information contained in a 
leaflet Nationwide  says accompanied  it. And this would  have given  them some, if not all of 
what they needed.
Its likely  Mr and Mrs S got a policy document after they took out the policy because this is 
what Nationwide was required  to do. But this doesnt  tell me that Mr and Mrs S got all they 
needed and in a timely  manner to make  an informed decision. For example its not clear Mr 
and Mrs S were clearly told about the significant exclusions and limitations of cover or how 
much PPI cost and the benefit it would provide. So I cant conclude everything  happened as 
it fairly and reasonably should have done.
But this doesnt  automatically mean Mr and Mrs S complaint should succeed. I need to go 
on and consider if, and to what extent, theyve lost out as a result of the things Nationwide  
didnt do.
Having done so and considered all of the evidence  presented to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, I find PPI was ultimately suitable for Mr and Mrs S. And I 
dont think it is likely,  given their circumstances  at the time, Mr and Mrs S would have arrived  
at a different  decision and declined PPI if Nationwide had done more. I say this because:
Mr S was eligible   he qualified  for the cover  and all of its benefits.
Ref: DRN01414784Mr and Mrs S chose  to take out the cover, so it was clearly of interest  to them   albeit 
Im mindful this was likely based  on incomplete  information.
Mr S was employed and he told us he was in good health at the time, so he would 
not have been affected or put off by the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover 
 for example  around  existing  medical  conditions.
Mr and Mrs S representative said they werent told about the most common  
conditions being excluded  for example back  pain and stress. But the policy didnt 
exclude or limit these  things or place any additional evidential requirements on 
making a claim for these things than for other  disabilities. So there was nothing  to tell 
them about  here.
The policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for Mr and Mrs S given their 
circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs S had sick pay and redundancy entitlement through work  and said they 
had over three months  of savings they couldve relied on (albeit I note they said they 
had these savings  at the time of taking  out the mortgage, which  was three years 
earlier). But despite this, I think they still had a need  for cover. 
The policy would have paid out in addition to any existing means either  leaving  these  
intact or allowing them to be used for other household and ongoing expenditure. It 
would have paid out for longer than their existing means  up to 24 months if 
required. A 24 month limit to the pay-out might have been different from what  Mr and 
Mrs S expected. But I think Mr and Mrs S would  have  still found the policy  useful and 
it would  have helped  them manage the financial  consequences at what  would likely 
be a difficult and uncertain time  it would have helped them protect their home.
The evidence doesnt show that Mr and Mrs S were told about the cost of the policy 
or what it would  pay out before they agreed to it. But I find it unlikely given the 
circumstances leading  to the sale that they agreed to take it without knowing 
something about the cost. If they had seen the leaflet with the mailshot this wouldve 
given them some idea.  They  didnt question the cost over the subsequent years  it 
would have appeared on their bank statements for example - so I think its 
reasonable to assume it met with their expectations.
At around £10 a month,  I dont think the cost was expensive  and it appears  to have 
been affordable.  And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs S expectations about what  the 
policy provided in terms of benefit  it was protecting their mortgage  payment  was 
different to what it did provide.
Mr and Mrs S representative has made  much  of the fact that they believe the policy was 
unsuitable and not needed because they had existing means and they were  financially 
stable. Theyve said Mr and Mrs S  were smart with money And: if they were  to be made 
redundant they would  have lowered their monthly  outgoings so they could support any 
essential such as repayments of the mortgage and bills. 
Theyve also said that it would be unlikely both Mr and Mrs S would be out of work  at the 
same time, so theyd  still have one full-time wage coming in.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr and Mrs S and their representative have said in 
relation to this matter.  But these things dont change my decision. I think  the policy was 
suitable for them for all of the reasons Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN01414785Mr and Mrs S understood their existing means yet chose to take out PPI. I accept they might  
not have got all of the information they needed  to make a properly informed decision about  
it. But I dont think the policy  operated  in a fundamentally different  way, or cost more  than 
they expected,  from the information  they were given - I think  it was sufficiently close to what 
they thought they were getting.
Mr and Mrs S might  have been able to tighten  their belts and reduce their expenditure if Mr S 
found himself unable to work. But I think this is the kind of thing  Mr and Mrs S would have 
weighed up in deciding  whether to take out the policy. And I think  being smart with their 
money, they decided the cost and benefit proposition worked  for them  in their particular 
circumstances and so chose to take out PPI because  they could see how it might  be useful 
to them.
Overall and having carefully considered  all of the evidence provided  by both parties to this 
dispute, I find Mr and Mrs S have not lost out as a result of taking out PPI to protect  their 
mortgage. For the reasons Ive described  above, I think  Mr and Mrs S would still have gone 
ahead and taken  out the policy  if Nationwide had done everything it should have.
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that Mr and Mrs S have not suffered 
loss or damage as a result of taking out PPI, so I make no award in their favour.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0141478