K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. The policy was in Mrs S2s sole name.  Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 say Bank  of Scotland  
plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 took out a PPI policy  called Mortgage Repayments Cover  with 
their mortgage in 2004. They paid a monthly amount  for the policy. They took this policy  out 
as part of a package called Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP)  which offered 
accident, sickness, unemployment, critical illness and life cover. 
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage  Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover,  as thats  what 
Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 have complained about. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2s case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 and Halifax. During 
that meeting Halifax shouldve  made Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 aware they had a choice in 
buying the policy. Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 say it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional 
and Mrs S2 says she was told she wouldnt get the mortgage unless she took the policy. 
Neither side has much paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think  thats surprising. But it 
does mean  I have limited  information about  the sale, so I have to decide what  I think  is likely  
to have happened, given  the information  I do have and the broader circumstances.
Ive seen a screenshot of Halifaxs records which shows  it asked  Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 a 
series of questions checking  whether they were eligible for the policy  and also recorded  their 
answers. I think this suggests that a discussion took place  between Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs 
S2 and Halifax about PPI  and based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like 
this at the time I think its likely the optional nature wouldve been made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 they had a 
choice about taking the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Based on my experience of how Halifax usually sold these policies at the time, I think its 
likely it gave Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 advice about whether to buy the policy.  So it had to 
check it was right for them. 
Looking at Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2s circumstances   Mrs S2s in particular  they seem  to 
have had a need for the cover. Mrs S2 wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limits on 
the cover. Mrs S2 says she received sick pay benefits from her employer  but the policy  
wouldve covered  Mrs Ss mortgage repayments  for up to 24 months, as well as covering her 
Ref: DRN09889392if she lost her job. This would have  paid out alongside any employee benefits Mrs S2 was 
entitled to, including any redundancy pay. 
I note Mrs S2 has some  savings but having the policy wouldve meant she could have used 
those savings for other essential costs so it seems she had a need for the policy.  Mr S, Mrs 
S1 and Mrs S2 were borrowing funds against a large and long term financial commitment, 
which was secured on Mrs S2s home. And it looks like Mr S and Mrs S1 were  retired  at the 
time. So I think having the security that the mortgage repayments  would  be made if Mrs S2 
was unable to work  would have been  important to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But it looks  like 
the policy would have been  useful  for them if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 off taking out the cover. Which means 
Halifax doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 because:  
When the policy was sold, Halifax expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr S, Mrs S1 and 
Mrs S2 about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit  share  that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 have said including what  
Mr S and Mrs S1 have  said about  having substantial  savings available  which  Mrs S2 
couldve used if she needed to. But circumstances can change,  so although  Im sure they 
wouldve wanted to help, I dont think it could be guaranteed.  So  this point  doesnt  change 
my decision.  
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back  to Mr S, Mrs S1 
and Mrs S2 any extra  interest Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Halifax should also pay Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 can claim back  the tax if they dont 
pay tax.
Ref: DRN09889393my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr S, Mrs S1 and Mrs S2 any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S, Mrs S1 and 
Mrs S2 to accept or reject  my decision  before 4 February 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0988939