K820x#14Complaint
Miss D complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (trading as Audi Finance) (VWFS) wasnt fit for 
purpose.
Background
Miss D entered  into a four year HPA with VWFS  in August 2017 to acquire a car. She says 
that when she was at the dealership she was considering two cars: one petrol and one 
diesel and that she said she wanted  a car with good  fuel economy that would be suitable  for 
driving short distances. She says this is supported by her annual  mileage allowance being 
set at 5,000 miles.
Miss D says she was advised  the diesel car would suit her needs and wasnt told about the 
need to make longer journeys to ensure the diesel  particulate filer (DPF)  regenerated.
Miss D says she experienced  issues with the car juddering which she has been told is due to 
the DPF not being able to regenerate. She says the car isnt fit for purpose  as it doesnt suit 
the driving she does.
VWFS says that Miss D contacted it in August  2018, about issues  with the car. It suggested 
she contact the dealer.  In November Miss D contacted it again with issues  such as the car 
juddering and consuming a lot of diesel.  She also said that it had been mis-sold  as a diesel 
car wasnt suitable for her usage.  It says that the dealer offered to part exchange  Miss Ds 
car but this hadnt been able to be agreed.
VWFS says that he dealer had confirmed that there was no evidence the car had been mis-
sold and that Miss D had part exchanged a diesel car for the current  car and so she was 
aware of the characteristics  of a diesel car. It says the issue  with the glow plugs in January 
2018 had been rectified and it had no evidence of other faults arising  the first six months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Miss D had said no discussion of 
the DPF took place  while  at the dealership and this was only discussed when she returned  
to the dealership. He also noted that Miss D had asked about the fuel economy of the cars 
and said that diesel  cars generally provided  better  miles  per gallon than the same  petrol  
vehicles. Given this he didnt find that a misrepresentation had occurred.
Our adjudicator noted that Miss Ds previous car was a diesel car and said that cars 
manufactured from 2009 required DPFs so he thought it more likely than not that her 
previous car had a DPF. He said the dealership  would have been aware of this and this 
could have had an impact on it considering a diesel car appropriate for Miss D. 
In regard to the other issues raised  by Miss D, our adjudicator  said he could only hold VWFS 
responsible for the service Miss D received  when  setting  up her finance  agreement.  He 
thought it reasonable that the repair required was carried out at no cost to Miss D and noted 
she had said this was satisfactory. 
Miss D didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said her previous  diesel  car didnt have  the 
same characteristics of her current car and she reiterated that she had asked the dealership 
about the car and relied on its advice.  She also reiterated the low mileage  amount on her 
Ref: DRN08297632HPA. She said she had experienced issues with the car since the outset which  hadnt  been 
diagnosed and were ongoing.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Miss D entered  into HPA to acquire a used car. At the time of acquisition  the car was around 
three years old and had been driven  23,000 miles. Miss D has raised concerns both about 
the car being  mis-sold  and not fit for purpose  and the quality of the car. I have dealt with 
these issues separately.
As our adjudicator has explained,  section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  says a 
finance company  is responsible for a credit brokers actions prior to the agreement  
commencing - the antecedent negotiations.  In this case the dealership  acted as the credit  
broker and so VWFS can be held liable for information it provided at the point of supply that 
Miss D relied  on and that induced her into agreeing to the HPA.
Miss D says that when  she was at the dealership she was considering both a petrol car and 
the diesel  car she acquired. She says she asked which car would be better in regard to fuel 
consumption and also said that she did about  5,000 miles a year. 
I understand why Miss D feels  that she wasnt given clear advice regarding the suitability of 
a diesel car, however based on the information  provided I do not find I can say the car was 
misrepresented. I note Miss D has an annual  mileage  limit of 5,000 miles and while  this 
could indicate  her doing only short journeys it doesnt necessarily mean she wouldnt also do 
some longer  journeys which would allow the DPF to regenerate. She also asked  about  fuel 
consumption and was given  advice  regarding this which I do not find I can say was incorrect. 
Miss D already had a diesel car and as DPFs have ben feature of diesel cars since  2009,  I 
do not find it unreasonable  that this issue wasnt explained by the dealership. I have nothing 
to suggest Miss D asked  specifically about  the DPF and how to regenerate it and so I dont 
find I can say she was given any misleading information.
On balance, based on the testimonies provided  in regard to the conversation at the point of 
supply, I do not find that I have enough to say that a misrepresentation occurred or that 
Miss D was mis-sold  the car.
Miss D has raised concerns about  the quality of the car. I appreciate her comments about 
the issues that have arisen since acquisition. However, in order  to say that VWFS  has to do 
anything further  I would  need  to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply.  I note that Miss D said a part fell off and needed  to be repaired.  While I 
appreciate she may not have received the service she should have at that time, the repair  
was undertaken  at no cost and I cannot  hold VWFS responsible for the service of the 
dealership at that time. 
In January 2018, a warning light came on in regard to the glow plugs. Again I understand 
that a repair  was carried out at no cost to Miss D and I have  nothing  to suggest that this 
wasnt successful. Therefore I find this a reasonable remedy.
Ref: DRN08297633I note Miss D has sad the car judders and she thinks this may be an issue with the DPF. I 
appreciate her comments that the issue hasnt been  fully diagnosed. However, given the 
time that has passed since Miss D acquired  the car I find it reasonable that she is now 
required to provide evidence that any issues with the car are due to faults  that were present 
or developing at the point of supply. Without this I do not find I can say that VWFS is 
required to take any further action. If evidence is provided to show  the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply then I would  expect  VWFS to take the necessary 
steps to address this. However  based  on what I have seen I do not find that I have enough  
evidence to uphold  this complaint.
The dealership has previously offered to part exchange the car and while I appreciate  
Miss Ds comments  about this and the cars she was offered, I find this could  be a 
reasonable remedy and if Miss D wishes to pursue this she should discuss  it directly with the 
dealership.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0829763