K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs C applied for a joint mortgage with Lloyds in 1993. At the same time they were 
sold a PPI policy. The policy covered them both against being unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. The monthly  cost of the PPI policy was 
£18.72. If they had made a successful  claim,  the PPI policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit 
of £312.00.The monthly benefit  wouldve been paid for up to 12 months per claim.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The mortgage was applied for and the policy sold to Mr and Mrs C during a meeting  in 1993. 
Given the time that has passed it isnt surprising  that there is very little paperwork from the 
time of the sale. Where  there  is limited  information,  I will make  my decision based  on whats  
more likely to have  happened,  taking  into account  the evidence available,  what   both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Mr and Mrs C have said they were  pressured into taking the policy. I cant know what was 
said during the course of the meeting. It may be the Lloyds  adviser  told Mr and Mrs C they 
should take out the policy, but thats  different to saying they had to. And I have to take into 
account that memories  do fade over time, and this meeting took place over 25 years ago.
I do note that Mr and Mrs C continued paying  for the PPI policy  for many  years.  If they only 
took it out after being pressured to, and didnt  want it, Id expect  them to have questioned it 
at an early stage but Ive not seen any evidence that they did so. 
I accept its possible Mr and Mrs C were told they had to have the PPI or were pressured  into 
taking it out. But I think its most  likely they were made aware  the PPI was optional and they 
chose to take it out. Although after so many years I can understand why Mr and Mrs C might 
not recall this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because:
Mr and Mrs C were not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For 
example they didnt  have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And they 
were not in unusual  employment situations  which might not have been covered.
Ref: DRN06356442Mr and Mrs C have told us in the questionnaire they completed for this service that they 
would only receive  statutory sick pay if they couldnt  work. Its possible their employers may 
have paid them some  sick pay as well. But this particular  policy  wouldve paid a monthly 
benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 12 months, most likely for longer than any 
employers sick pay. So I think  Mr and Mrs C wouldve found the benefit useful if either of 
them became too unwell to work.
And if Mr or Mrs C lost their job the monthly benefit would mean they could use any 
redundancy pay for other  living costs. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative told us Mr C had a separate policy with another insurance  
company. But Mr C told his representative that he took this out after taking  out the mortgage 
with Lloyds so it wouldnt have been in place at the time the PPI was sold.
Mr Cs representative also told us his employer provided him with liability insurance.  But this 
is different cover to PPI so wouldnt have duplicated the cover.
I cant know after all these years exactly what Mr and Mrs C were told or given at the time. 
And its possible the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs C aware the policy was optional  and 
they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  Lloyds recommended  was 
right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Lloyds  
Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0635644