K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about advice from Greystone Financial Services  Limited (Greystone) to 
invest in an unregulated investment, Close Bros. Second Quartet Commercial Property Fund 
LP (Close  Second)  via his self-invested personal  pension (SIPP).
Mr B has several other complaints with this service relating to investments which were held 
in a SIPP and Personal Pension  Plan (PPP).  These  are being considered  separately.
background
In a letter dated 10 May 2006 a Greystone adviser  (the adviser)  recommended  that Mr B 
invest £25,000 of his A J Bell SIPP in Close Second  this was an unregulated collective 
investment scheme  (UCIS). In his letter the adviser  noted  that Mr Bs objectives were:  
-You need to create  income and we discussed commencement of an unsecured 
pension from the A J Bell SIPP
-Investment of the Pension Commencement  Lump Sum of approximately  £105,000  
from the A J Bell SIPP
Amongst other things, the adviser described Close Second as offering  investors  a limited 
opportunity to invest in a diversified portfolio of commercial property. And also said that 
Property can be considered to be an attractive investment alternative, offering diversification 
from other asset classes, particularly when equity markets have been volatile and uncertain 
and deposit rales unattractive.
 
Together with the recommendation  letter, Mr B was provided with an Appendix setting out 
the main features of the UCIS. The main points  were:
It offered  a higher  income than that available from cash, bonds or equitiesthough 
this is not guaranteed ;
There were  projected yearly returns of 10%;
The fund was seeking to raise up to £10million and with the benefit of bank  
borrowing, it was anticipated that it would acquire up to £40million of property if the 
fund raised the £10million;
Investment would be considered across the office, retail, industrial and leisure 
sectors and includes the acquisition of hotels, existing occupied property and 
development opportunities;
Whilst the level of debt would vary from purchase to purchase,  it was anticipated that 
debt would represent around  75%-80%  of the purchase costs;
The fund would  be actively  managed by another business who would oversee  the 
management of all of the acquired  properties;
Investment would be across the UK and Europe with 35% to 50% earmarked for 
investment outside the UK;
The value of property  could rise or fall and liquidity could be difficult  in poor market  
conditions;
It was unregulated. Amongst other  things,  it was not covered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation  Scheme.
 
The adviser said in terms of Mr Bs attitude  to risk we defined your risk profile as 
cautious/realistic, where you require  an investment  designed to give a conservative  and 
Ref: DRN01540282relatively stable level of income and capital growth.  You accept that returns  may not be high 
as that available from other investments  but volatility should be lower  because of the greater 
emphasis on capital protection. 
At the time of the advice on 10 May 2006,  Mr Bs A J Bell SIPP  was recorded as being  worth 
£452,392. Mr B also had a Transact  PPP valued  at around £451,594 (as on 4 May 2006).
As of 4 May 2006,  Mr Bs Transact PPP was invested in T-GWM  Absolute Return portfolio 
in the following proportions:
Fixed  Interest - £121,705
Property - £115,972
Total Return - £72,243
UK Equity  - £126,044
In the recommendation letter dated 10 May 2006, it was noted that Mr Bs A J Bell SIPP  
position was as follows:
Cash - £289,300
Property - £25,000
Matrix Conservative Approach Strategy - £40,186 (being sold)
Matrix Horizon - £47,906
Dunbar Guaranteed Account - £50,000
In his letter the adviser recommended  that Mr B invest  £119,250  of his A J Bell SIPP  in 
Margetts Greystone Balanced Portfolio. This had already been recommended to Mr B in 
March 2006. This portfolio was shown  on Mr Bs A J Bell SIPP as of 11 July 2006. 
Greystone noted  that this particular portfolio invested across five funds as follows:
Fixed  Interest 7%
UK Equity  37.5%
International Equity 12.5%
Total Return 20%
Property Fund 23%
At the same time, Mr B was recommended to invest £39,750 of his A J Bell SIPP in another 
fund which  consisted  of low risk areas  such as cash, fixed  interest and income yielding 
equities. The adviser noted that he was recommending this fund because  he believed  it 
would reduce the overall risk profile of the A J Bell SIPP and is suitable given your 
requirement for a conservative and relatively  stable level of income and capital growth over 
the medium to longer  term.
Mr Bs personal circumstances werent  noted in this recommendation  letter  of 10 May. Other 
documents show that at the time of the Close Second advice Mr Bs personal and financial 
circumstances were  broadly as follows:
-He was in his late 50s and was married  with no dependent children;
-His main assets consisted  of cash balances of around £20,000 (10 May 2006); 
-He jointly  owned his home  valued  at around £500,000  in a letter dated 10 May 
2006 it noted Mr and Mrs B had taken an offset mortgage of £50,000;
-He was retired (as of 10 February 2006);
-He had £21,645 in a general investment account;
Ref: DRN01540283-He had a Stocks and Shares ISA totalling  £21,300;
-He had a PEP Consolidation account  totalling  £41,800.
Mr Bs complaint
In February and November 2013 Mr B wrote to Greystone saying the Close Second 
investment was now worth £400,  or in other  words,  2% of its original cost. He also noted that 
hed received no income from the fund. After  complaining to Greystone, Mr B brought  his 
complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. In brief, he concluded  that the number of risks 
involved in an investment of this type,  didnt meet Mr Bs attitude to risk and was therefore,  
an unsuitable recommendation.  Along with financial  compensation for any losses  suffered, 
our adjudicator awarded Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to his pension 
planning.
Greystone disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary, it said:
Mr B was made aware,  in meetings and in written advice, that there were risks 
associated with the search for greater potential  rewards; 
Given Mr B held a medium or balanced attitude to risk (as is confirmed in the 
contemporaneous documents on file), the investment in a UCIS  was suitable to be 
held as part of a diversified portfolio  his attitude  to risk was consistent with his 
financial objectives of focusing on retirement/pension planning,  seeking  potential 
capital growth and diversifying his overall  portfolio;
In order to seek potential higher  than average  returns, as Mr B wanted,  investors  
must accept a higher than average  degree of risk  Mr B was prepared to do this;
Mr B was a sophisticated  investor, engaged and experienced in this arena as well as 
being a successful businessman;
Mr B reviewed  and understood the suitability  report and product literature provided to 
him at the time, which highlighted the nature  and risks.  He signed the Risk Warning 
Notice which expressly confirmed  hed understood the risks;
An investment  should  not be viewed in isolation  it was part of a balanced portfolio 
for an investor with a medium  or balanced  attitude to risk;
The fact that a product is unregulated does not of itself make it an unsuitable 
investment;
It was not the advice  but the unprecedented and unforeseeable fall in the commercial 
property market which caused the fall in value of the fund  the investment was 
considered appropriate  for the time and should  only be viewed in light of the 
information and practices of the time;
The suggested redress based on achieving returns to reflect  50% FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index and 50% average return from fixed  rate bonds, 
is not credible in Mr Bs case;
The £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience  isnt fair, as when put 
together with the other awards in Mr Bs other  complaints, hell be over compensated;
There is no basis on for this complaint to be split from Mr Bs other  complaints.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN01540284Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for the following reasons:
Before I explain my reasoning, whilst I appreciate the strength of feelings on both sides, it 
isnt my role to address all the questions and issues that each party has raised. My role is to 
concentrate on the issues directly  relevant  to the outcome of the case and to make a 
decision based on what I think are the central  issues. So whilst Ive taken into account 
everything thats been submitted, I may not comment on every  single  point thats been 
raised. 
Mr Bs attitude to risk
Mr Bs attitude to risk at the time of the advice was assessed as cautious/realistic. 
Greystone went on to explain that this meant:  
where you require an investment designed  to give a conservative and relatively  stable 
level of income and capital growth. You accept  that returns may not be high as that available 
from other investments  but volatility should  be lower  because  of the greater emphasis on 
capital protection.  
Greystone explained  this further in their submissions to this service  saying that Mr B had a 
medium and balanced attitude  to risk. This meant  in order  to seek  potential higher than 
average returns, Mr B accepted a higher than average degree of risk. But this statement 
appears contradictory to how Greystone categorised Mr B at the time in that he was said to 
be conservative and looking for a relatively stable level of income and capital growth.
In April 2002 Greystone  assessed Mr B as having  a low/ medium  profile   low being 
someone who would want to invest in 100% with profits  investment and medium  being 
someone whod invest in 50% with profits and 50% managed funds. At that time, Mr Bs 
recorded number  one priority in terms of his finances, was the security of his pension. It was 
also noted that he didnt mind a reasonable  degree  of risk in the hope his benefits  could be 
higher in retirement.
I accept this assessment  was made  prior to the Close Second advice in May 2006, but I 
cant see his circumstances by that time had changed so significantly it could be argued 
Mr B was now willing to take higher than average  degree of risk. I also think the later 
assessment of cautious/ realistic is more in line with Greystones initial assessment of Mr B 
rather than what they are saying now about  him wanting to take a higher  than average  
degree of risk.
A willingness to take a higher than average  degree of risk isnt consistent  with what Id 
regard as a low/ medium or cautious attitude to investment risk. Or indeed with someone 
who regarded the security of his pension as his number one priority. Further,  whilst Mr B did 
have some assets outside his SIPP and PPP (and leaving aside his home),  these were 
relatively modest in comparison to the size of his pension fund. So I dont think  his wider 
financial position meant Mr B could  afford  to take a higher degree of risk with the pension  
fund that was to be his primary source of income in his retirement.  
Overall, I think that whilst Mr B may have been willing  to take some  risks with his capital to 
achieve returns needed to support him in his retirement, I think his attitude to risk was low to 
medium. And that he was on the lower side of medium. 
Ref: DRN01540285Was the recommendation suitable?
In terms of the recommendation itself, I can see Close  Second  was a UCIS this was a 
highly leveraged fund which meant that whilst returns could be enhanced  if the assets 
increased in value, losses could be magnified  too. The regulator has said: UCIS are 
generally regarded  as being  characterised  by a high degree  of volatility,  illiquidity or both  
and therefore  are usually regarded as speculative investments. This means that in practice  
they are rarely  regarded  as suitable  for more than a small share of an investors  portfolio.
The Close Second fund was unusual  and specialist including its structure and how it was 
managed. It was concentrated and highly  geared, subject to liquidity risks with no 
established secondary market. It was dependent  on the commercial property market  either 
in terms of resale values  or rental yields   not suffering a downturn.  There  was a risk 
investors wouldnt get back the amount  theyd  invested and could lose all of it. Further, as it 
was intending  to invest in property that hadnt  yet been developed, there were also 
counterparty risks created by the companies developing the site. So looking  at Mr Bs 
attitude to risk, I dont  think this particular recommendation was suitable  for his needs  or risk 
profile of cautious/ realistic.
 
Ive considered Greystones point that its recommendation provided balance to Mr Bs 
portfolio, so it met his risk profile. This is something it said to Mr B at the time of the advice 
where it noted that investment offered Mr B an opportunity to diversify his portfolio by 
investing in something other than cash, bonds  and equities.
But looking  at the overall portfolio   even when excluding the other property investments 
which are the subject matter of separate complaints  it consisted of a large proportion of 
other alternative investment strategies. As Ive outlined above, at the same  as 
recommending the Close  Second fund,  Mr Bs adviser recommended he invest  £119,250  in 
Margetts Greystone Balanced Portfolio  as Ive noted above,  a large proportion of this 
fund invested  in higher risk assets such as international equities and hedge  funds.  Similarly, 
Mr Bs Transact PPP was also heavily invested in alternative investment strategies such as 
hedge funds. 
These funds represented  a significant proportion of Mr Bs overall  pension  portfolio, which  
were also recommended by Greystone. In my view, Close Second contributed to the 
portfolio increasing  in risk rather than lowering it.
Even if I took into account that Im upholding the other complaints and this will have the 
effect of lowering the risk in the rest of Mr Bs portfolio, I dont think  Mr Bs below medium 
attitude to risk made him a typical candidate for a geared property investment and balance in 
his portfolio would  have  been more suitably achieved by the use of insured funds, including  
commercial property funds
I note Greystones submission that its advice should  be judged  against the standards  of the 
time. But at the time of the advice, Greystone was required by its regulator to provide  
suitable advice.  To do this it wouldve  had to take into account Mr Bs personal and financial 
circumstances as well as his understanding of the risks of investing in this type of fund. For 
example, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B understood what gearing was and why that 
increased the potential rewards, as well as the risks. And whilst it may not be unreasonable  
to have some alternative or less conventional or traditional assets if the investor understands 
Ref: DRN01540286their place (which Im not satisfied Mr B did), overall, the SIPP  portfolio should still broadly  
reflect the investors attitude  to risk. 
Its possible that the variations in Mr Bs recorded attitude to risk reflected  that the adviser 
was designating some  parts of the overall portfolio  as higher risk than others. But I cant see 
that he satisfactorily explained how this would achieve the overall  balance  Mr B reasonably 
needed of below medium risk. Further, a low to medium  portfolio wouldnt reasonably be 
achieved by straying too far above  the range of risk the investor is willing to take, on the 
basis this could be balanced by straying equally far below that range with another  
investment. Given that Mr B was below medium on the risk scale, Im not satisfied that the 
£25,000 investment  in Close Second  was an appropriate component  of an overall portfolio 
seeking to achieve that risk level.
Greystone has pointed to the risk warnings in the suitability letters,  and the information 
provided to Mr B about the fund. Theres no dispute  Mr B was provided with these at the 
time of sale.  But providing information about  the fund and the risks involved,  doesnt change 
Greystones obligation to give suitable advice. Nor does the fact that Mr B may have signed 
declarations about  being  a sophisticated  investor. Mr B denies signing the sophisticated 
investor form. But even  if he did, I think Greystone still had a duty to give Mr B suitable  
advice based  on his particular circumstances and his stated risk profile. And it isnt about 
whether Mr B agreed  to Greystones recommendations   it shouldnt have advised him to 
invest as he did. And I consider Greystone had advised him differently I think, on balance,  he 
wouldve followed this advice.
So in summary,  I consider  Greystones  adviser should have recognised the multiple risks 
involved meant that this particular  investment  wasnt suitable  for an investor such as Mr B.
Splitting of the complaints
Greystone has raised objections to the splitting  of Mr Bs complaints. In a letter  dated  
25 July 2018 our service  gave both parties  detailed  reasons why the complaints Mr B 
brought to this service were separate complaints. 
In summary  it was noted that as well as making  further contributions into his A J Bell SIPP. 
Mr Bs circumstances had also changed  it was recorded that he would be retiring and 
wanted to look at drawdown in the 2006/7 tax year. At this point Mr B had a total of £175,000 
remaining in cash,  and the adviser  appeared to be revising the asset allocations for his SIPP  
going forwards to accommodate  drawdown. And in a suitability letter of 13 March 2006 the 
adviser set out the changes he was proposing to improve  diversification.  Over the course of 
the next few months, arrangements were made for Mr B to take drawdown from the A J Bell 
SIPP. In a meeting  note of 5 May 2006  the adviser recommended  the use of the new 
Greystone portfolios after first putting £25,000  into the Close  Second  fund. Over the course  
of subsequent letters and noted meetings,  it was agreed that Mr B was prepared to take a 
higher risk than previously. 
Mr Bs complaint here is specifically about the inclusion of the Close  Second  fund in the May 
2006 recommendation. As the sum invested  was significantly less than the fresh amounts 
hed contributed to the SIPP in January 2005 and 2006 and coincided with a revaluation of 
his objectives  (for drawdown)  and attitude to risk, Im satisfied this was (or rather, it was part 
of) a separate financial service. So my view is that for these reasons, this is a separate  
complaint.
Ref: DRN01540287If Greystone  is concerned  the redress will overlap  between this case  and the redress  for the 
rest of the portfolio,  this will be addressed in the complaint about the transfer of Mr Bs 
pension funds to the A J Bell SIPP and Transact PPP.
The redress
In terms of the redress, Greystone doesnt  agree that Mr B should receive £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience. This is because it says together with Mr Bs other complaints, 
he is being awarded more than wed normally give for this type of complaint.
In this particular  case, I think Mr B has been  caused  considerable  distress by the unsuitable 
advice. In an email exchange between the adviser and Mr B it was recognised  that the fund 
was now worth only 2% of its original cost and that Mr B hadnt received any income from it. 
So when Mr B was made aware the fund was worth 2% of its original cost and hed received 
no income from it up to that point,  Im satisfied this caused him considerable trouble and 
upset. Therefore I think £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused by Greystones 
advice, is fair.
 
I further understand Greystone considers the formula proposed by the adjudicator,  is unfair. 
But I dont agree with Greystones point that with the suggested  award it effectively means 
the investment  was guaranteed and Mr Bs capital was secure. Greystone says this isnt 
credible in light of Mr Bs willingness to take some risks with his capital. But the benchmark 
proposed is a combination of two indices,  one of which carries the risk of going down  and it 
is overall reflective of the attitude to risk I think Mr B was willing  to accept.  And had the 
advice been suitable then Greystone wouldnt be responsible for the losses  Mr B has 
sustained in respect of the investment. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied  that the recommended  redress set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr Bs circumstances,  attitude  to risk and objectives 
when he invested.
Greystone Financial Services Limited must  compare  the performance of Mr Bs investment 
with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value, 
there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable. If there is a loss, Greystone  Financial Services Limited  must  
pay a sufficient amount into Mr Bs pension plan,  to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. 
Greystone Financial Services Limiteds payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief.  It shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. If Greystone  Financial Services  Limited  is 
unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension  plan,  it should pay that amount direct  to 
him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 
Ref: DRN01540288The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  If Mr B is likely to have been a higher rate taxpayer had any losses  
resulting from all of the complaints hes brought about Greystone Financial Services 
Limiteds advice from January 2004 onwards been  included in his pension  fund, the 
reduction would equal the current higher rate of tax. However, Greystone Financial Services  
Limited should identify as part of its calculations if Mr B would have been able to take higher  
amounts of tax-free  cash at the times, he took tax-free cash  from his pension (if a loss was 
already showing  at that time) and adjust the reduction its making for income tax accordingly.
To give only an example,  if any higher amount of tax-free cash  Mr B wouldve been able to 
take in 2006/7 but for Greystones  advice from January 2004 onwards, with further growth 
added to the date of my final decision in line with the benchmark shown below, happened  to 
now correspond to 20% of his total losses from that advice   this would mean 1/5th of the 
compensation now being paid should not be reduced to allow  for income tax. So if the rest of 
the compensation wouldve resulted in income taxable at 40%,  the overall reduction to be 
applied to compensation in this and other complaints Mr B has brought  about Greystone 
Financial Services Limiteds advice from January 2004 onwards would amount to 40% x 
4/5ths = 32%. The precise percentage should  be determined  by Greystone Financial Services 
Limited during  the process of carrying out its calculations and is the same for all of the 
complaints about  advice  from January  2004  onwards.
Mr B may consider hes able to demonstrate that a part of the lost pension benefits resulting 
from the complaints  hes brought about Greystone Financial Services Limiteds advice from 
January 2004  onwards, wouldve been taxed at the lower rate of 20%. I would expect  
Greystone Financial Services Limited to consider appropriate evidence  provided by Mr B if 
he considers this to be the case.
-Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format: 
Investment name Status Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end 
date)Additional interest
Close Bros. Second 
Quartet Commercial 
Property Fund LP
(Changed its name 
to Alpha Real 
Capital)Still 
existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE  
UK Private  
Investors  Income 
Total Return  
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed  rate bondsDate of 
investment date of 
this final 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision 
to date of
settlement  
(if compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business  being 
notified of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed  
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.
Greystone Financial Services Limited should  take ownership of the illiquid  investment by 
paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount should  be 
deducted from the compensation before making  the tax adjustment  and the balance  paid as 
Ref: DRN01540289above. If it is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Greystone Financial Services Limited  may wish to require 
that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment 
in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Greystone  Financial Services Limited will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Ive assumed that the investment has not been  sold. If it has been  sold or liquidated, then 
the actual value should be determined  by increasing  the value of any proceeds received by 
the above benchmark up to the settlement date and comparing  this to the fair value at the 
settlement date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Greystone  Financial Services Limited  must use the monthly average rate for the 
fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The 
rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates  to 
the investment  on an annually  compounded basis. 
The end date above is different to the end date I specified in Mr Bs other complaint about 
his PPP/SIPP switch,  because of the liquidity  problem with the Close Bros. Second Quartet 
Commercial Property Fund  Limited  Partnership  investment preventing  Mr Bs new adviser  
disposing of the investment.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
-Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
-The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
-The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
-I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and require Greystone Financial Services  Limited  to pay him the 
fair compensation set out above.
Ref: DRN015402810I also consider Greystone  Financial Services Limited has caused  Mr B significant  distress on 
realising that hed likely lost nearly  all of the money  invested in his UCIS. Greystone 
Financial Services Limited  must  pay Mr B £250 as compensation for the distress its caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0154028