K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ws representative has complained, on her behalf, that she was given unsuitable advice  
by Insight Financial Associates Limited to transfer her pension  arrangements  into a Family 
Pension Trust Self Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP) for the purpose of investing in 
commercial property in Cape Verde.
In particular, Mrs Ws representative  has said that the recommendation to invest in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS)   in overseas property  would have  
liquidity issues due to a restricted sales market and lack of certain exit strategy. It said it was 
unsuited to her circumstances and needs and also that the amount to be invested in the 
SIPP was too small  and would be eroded by fees and charges.
Mrs Ws husband has also complained on a similar basis, but whilst reference will be made 
below to Mr W where necessary, his complaint  has been dealt  with separately.  
background
Prior to meeting  with Insights adviser,  Mrs W held a Personal Pension  Plan (PPP). In late 
2011, Insight introduced  Mrs W to the investment scheme complained  of, in the Llana Beach 
Resort, which was offered and operated by The Resort Group Plc. This was by way of an 
invitation to a presentation at Insights  offices.
In November 2011, a follow up appointment was made, during which a fact find document 
was completed,  and recorded the following  information about Mrs W:
She was 45 years  old, with 20 years  until her prospective retirement  date of 65
She was married, with two children  both of whom were financially dependent
She was employed  with an annual income  of £7,200.
She held around £3,500 in savings  and other  investments.
She owned her home with Mr W, which was valued at £280,000 and was 
encumbered by an £85,000 mortgage.
She held a PPP with Winterthur which had a value of approximately  £23,500. No 
regular contributions were being made.
She wasnt a particularly experienced investor and no discussions were held about 
her outgoings.
Mrs Ws objective  was recorded  as being  to increase  the prospects  of her having  a 
pension  pot at retirement  sufficient  to produce  an annual  income  of around  £30,000  pa 
jointly  with her husband.
Her attitude  to investment  risk was recorded  as being  medium-high,  although  it seems  
that this was increased  to facilitate  the investment  in the overseas  property.
Mrs W signed  the reservation  form for the property  investment  on 24 November  2011,  
before  receiving  the suitability  report  dated  31 December  2011.  In that report,  Insight  
recommended  that Mrs W transfer  her existing  PPP funds  to a SIPP  with Rowanmoor  
for the purpose  of investing  in the overseas  property.  This was established  in mid-
December  2011  and at the beginning  of February  2012,  just under  £23,000  was 
transferred  into the new SIPP.  On 23 April 2012,  an amount  of £52,481  (derived  of both 
Mr and Mrs Ws pension  funds)  was transferred  to The Resort  Group  for investment  in 
the overseas  property.
Ref: DRN08271652Income  by way of interest  from the scheme  was subsequently  received  up to October  
2014  in advance  of the completion  of the property.
In 2015,  Mrs W entered  into a consolidation  exercise  as it wasnt  possible  to complete  
the investment  due to funding  issues.  This meant  that her (and her husbands)  
ownership  changed  to 25% membership  of a different  property.
In April 2019,  Mrs Ws representative  complained  to Insight  on the above  detailed  basis,  
but Insight  didnt  uphold  the complaint.
It said that Mrs Ws husband  had already been  committed to buying  commercial property in 
the UK, but that this investment hadnt materialised. He would  nevertheless have been 
familiar with the implications of such an investment and the only difference  with the Cape 
Verde scheme was that it was overseas. Mr W would have known about the implication of 
the investment,  it said, and Mrs W wanted  to transfer her own pension to provide  additional  
funding for the property  investment. Her attitude  to risk had also been  recorded as medium-
high, Insight  said.
It further said that the property investment wasnt illiquid and that income was being paid 
from it  as evidenced from the accounts  Mrs W had received.
It also thought  the complaint had been made  too late and was not one we could consider 
under our rules. It said that, under our rules,  a complaint needed to be brought within six 
years of the event complained of (the transfer  of her pension to a SIPP and investment in 
Cape Verde property), or, if later, three  years  from the date she became aware she had 
cause for complaint.
Insight said that, in March 2015, Mrs W had changed her investment from a whole property 
investment to a part share and she would have received new documents  at that point. It 
argued that Mrs W would  have known what she was doing  and would have questioned the 
need to change the format of her investment - and so it would have expected  a complaint to 
have been made at that point.
An ombudsman considered the jurisdiction  arguments raised by Insight  but decided  this was 
a case we could  consider  under our rules. None of the correspondence on file suggested to 
the ombudsman  that Mrs W was aware or ought  to have become aware of cause for 
complaint earlier than 2017. Specifically, she didnt think that the consolidation exercise in 
2015 would  have given Mrs W awareness  of cause  for complaint as this formed a new 
agreement  and set new income  predictions.  There was nothing  about the exercise,  or the 
wording used to describe  it, which ought to have  given Mrs W cause for concern. 
The ombudsman said that it was only when Mrs W began  to receive the income from the 
new arrangement  in July 2017 that it was possible  he would have had cause for complaint. 
As Mrs W complained in April 2019, the ombudsman said that the complaint was in time and 
was one which we could consider.
The complaint was then considered by an investigator, who thought the complaint should be 
upheld. He said the investment was high risk and unsuitable for Mrs W. In support of this, he 
said the following  in summary:
Ref: DRN08271653The investment  was unregulated, and therefore  lacked the associated  regulatory 
control and oversight.
It was a new development with no track  record of operating successfully or 
guarantees of profits  being realised.
As it was an overseas  investment, there  was a currency exchange risk, as well as a 
risk of the development not being completed and there being no resale value.
All of Mrs Ws pension  funds had been  placed  in a single asset  there was no 
diversification of risk.
Although Mrs W was recorded as having a medium-high risk attitude and had 20 
years left to retirement, she had very little to fall back on apart from a small  amount  in 
savings.
The other assets consisted  of her jointly owned  home, which had an outstanding  
£85,000 mortgage on it. But there  was no in depth discussion  about  Mrs Ws 
outgoings.
Her existing PPP seemed  to have been invested  in moderate risk rated funds, which  
would have been appropriate for her.
The FCAs guidance on good practice when  recommending UCIS  was that around 3-
5% might  be appropriate. But Mrs W was unsuited to any high risk investment. Her 
risk rating was recorded as being medium-high.
She also had a low capacity for loss. Nevertheless, Insight had advised her to invest  
all of her pension funds into the UCIS.
The details about Mrs W contained  in the financial planning report didnt depict an 
individual who was an experienced high risk investor. The investigator thought it 
likely that Mrs W had believed that this was the required  rating  to be suited to the 
recommended investment.
The high risk nature of the investment wasnt suited to Mrs Ws objective of creating 
a joint £30,000  annual income  she may have needed  to replace future income  
rather than building  on it. Conversations  should have been had about  contributing 
further to her existing  pension, or seeking opportunities in a similar risk category.
The investigator therefore considered what Mrs W should instead have been advised to do. 
He thought that, on balance, if Insight had advised  against the transfer  and investment, Mrs 
W would have accepted that recommendation.
The investigator concluded that, suitably  advised,  Mrs W would have  simply left her existing 
PPP arrangement as it was. And he recommended that Insight undertake a loss calculation 
on the basis that Mrs Ws pension funds had been retained in an environment  where  she 
would be exposed to some investment risk  in line with one of our benchmark indices.
Insight disagreed, however, saying the following  in summary:
Mrs Ws husband was going  to invest in his own business property. It queried as to 
whether she would have declined to add her pension funds to this if they were also 
required.
It was Mr Ws intention to invest in commercial  property. Mrs W would therefore have 
been fully aware of the implications, these  being:  property  values could fluctuate; 
possible saleability issues; and there being  no guarantees the property would  
produce a profit.
It agreed that there may be exchange rate risks, but it couldnt see the relevance of 
Mrs W not making further pension contributions. There was also reference in the 
suitability report to Mrs W establishing a stakeholder pension.
Ref: DRN08271654It queried as to whether there was any indication that the existing investments would 
produce the income required  by Mrs (and Mr) W. 
Insight agreed that the Cape Verde investment was high risk  but it challenged the 
notion that Mrs W wouldnt  also have  invested along with Mr W in the business 
property. 
That she had very little to fall back  on could  probably be said for many clients  who 
either left their pension funds  where  they were or moved them around. There  was 
never any guarantee that the funds would grow sufficiently to produce the expected 
income, and Insight questioned as to whether a clients  expectations might be too 
high.
It was well aware of the FCAs guidance on good practice when  using UCIS  
investments, but when  a client made  it very clear as to the type of investment they 
wished to make, there was sometimes little an adviser could do to change their mind.
Insight was of the view that, whatever  it said to Mrs W about  investing in the Cape 
Verde scheme, it would have made no difference as she wanted to invest  in some  
form of commercial property  irrespective of her low capacity for loss.
It disagreed that, in order to achieve her objective of improving her retirement 
income, she would have left her investments  as they were. 
Insight enquired as to what  steps  Mrs W took in 2015, when the consolidation 
exercise was happening,  to find out why these changes needed  to take place.  It said 
that, if a new arrangement needed to be put in place, this should  have prompted  
questions as to why this was required.
As agreement hasnt been  reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
my findings
Is the complaint  within our jurisdiction?
Firstly, Im satisfied the complaint is one I can consider. While Insight has repeated that Mrs 
W ought to have  become  aware that she had cause for complaint as a result of changes to 
her investment in 2015, Im not persuaded thats  the case. Mrs W was made aware, in the 
suitability report,  of the need to fund the second part of the investment upon the propertys 
completion  which  was scheduled  for June 2015.  Therefore, I dont think  that the 
consolidation exercise, in the absence  of the means of funding  that second  tranche, would 
have come as a particular  surprise to Mrs W, or ought to have given her cause for complaint 
on that basis.
So, as with the previous ombudsman, Im not persuaded that she has brought  her complaint 
too late  and Mrs Ws complaint is therefore one we can consider.
Having reached  that conclusion,  Ive then considered all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
 
The applicable  rules,  regulations and requirements
The following  isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied to a firm
when giving advice,  but provides useful context for my assessment of Insights actions  here.
COBS 2.1.1R required a business to act honestly,  fairly and professionality in accordance
with the best interests of its client'.  And in order to ensure this was the case, and in line with
Ref: DRN08271655the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, Insight needed to gather the necessary information  for it 
to be confident that its advice met Mrs Ws objectives.
It also needed to ensure  that Mrs W had the necessary  experience and knowledge to
understand the risks she was taking. Broadly  speaking,  that section sets out the requirement
for a regulated advisory  business to undertake a fact find process.
Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R required a business to explain why the
firm has concluded that the recommended transaction  is suitable  for the client"  - in other
words, it needed to provide its client with a suitability  report  outlining  its advice and the
reasons for it.
In this case, Insight  wrote  to Mrs W in December 2011, recommending that she transfer  to 
the SIPP for the purpose of investing in the overseas property. On the basis  of that report 
and other  information  relevant to the case, I therefore consider in the following sections 
whether Insight adhered to its regulatory obligations and gave Mrs W suitable advice.
Did Insight meet its obligations  in recommending the transfer to the SIPP?
Mrs W was transferring from her existing designated investments (her existing  PPP)  to 
another designated investment (the SIPP). And as Ive said above, Insight had to obtain the 
necessary information  to have a reasonable basis on which to decide the replacement SIPP 
met Mrs Ws investment objectives (COBS 9.2.2R).  That included  Mrs W having the 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks of the proposed investment and that she 
was able to bear those  risks. 
Insight also needed  to consider the suitability of both the transfer to the SIPP and the 
subsequent investment  i.e. the purpose of the transfer to begin with. Mrs Ws objective 
was set out as being to invest in the Cape Verde commercial property, and the SIPP  was 
recommended by Insight  to allow  Mrs W to make  that specific investment. So, the risks of 
the Cape Verde property investment were a fundamental part of the risks of the 
recommended product.  
Insight was in a position to make a clear  recommendation  about whether or not Mrs W 
should invest in the Cape  Verde property. But I dont think it did so here - it was more  of an 
investment facilitation exercise.  The discussion  was in essence limited  to the best way of 
funding the property purchase, rather than exploring whether the transfer and reinvestment 
into the overseas  property  was the right course  of action  for Mrs W. 
In the suitability report, the investment is assumed to be happening,  rather than discussed 
as a suitability  consideration.  And to emphasise this, within the second paragraph under the 
heading Objective, which was simply described  as being for Mrs (and Mr) W to retire at age 
65, appears the sentence  beginning  with the phrase The property you are purchasing.. 
This therefore effectively  bypassed an entire  consideration as to whether the transfer and 
investment in overseas commercial property was suitable for Mrs W. The closest  Insight got 
to this was to provide a list of the advantages and disadvantages of the proposal.
There is no doubt that Mrs W was introduced to this property investment by Insight  the 
suitability report confirms  this. Insight should  therefore have  made a clear recommendation 
about whether  Mrs W should invest in the Cape Verde property  with robust reasoning  as to 
why it had reached its conclusion. It didnt do so, and I therefore think  it failed to adhere to 
the regulators requirements.
Ref: DRN08271656Was the recommendation suitable?
Insight was aware that this was a high-risk investment.  It mentioned this a number of times 
in the suitability report and has confirmed its view on this in its response to the investigators 
assessment. It noted that this was an investment in one asset  class,  that commercial  
property wasnt a readily saleable asset  and that there would be limited  liquidity in Mrs Ws 
pension. It also said the developer could  go bust and that there  was no guarantee of 
consistent performance.
This isnt an exhaustive list of the potential risks with the investment. The investigator added 
others, such as exchange rate risk, which Insight has also accepted. But I think its clear that 
the property investment could only have been  suitably recommended to investors who were  
prepared to risk losing all of their investment and who could afford  to take that risk. 
So Ive therefore  thought  carefully about whether Mrs W would fairly and reasonably be 
described as fitting that particular bill. 
Mrs Ws attitude to risk was assessed  as medium-high and that she was willing to invest  her 
capital in more  volatile markets, with the potential for higher than average returns. But I have 
concerns over the way in which this attitude to risk was ascertained.  Mrs W was seemingly 
in the first instance  recorded as having an understanding that a degree of risk does have to 
be taken in order to provide  the potential for investment return.
The suitability report then said that this risk attitude  had changed slightly   and had become 
higher. And the reason given for this was because Mrs W was recorded  as wanting to buy 
the commercial property and have the potential to produce  an acceptable level of income  in 
retirement.
But an investors attitude to risk shouldnt be adjusted  so that it aligns with the proposed  
investment. The proposed  investment  should  be adjusted so that it aligns  with the investors  
attitude to risk.
So my conclusion here is that Mrs Ws risk tolerance  was more likely than not artificially 
elevated for the purpose of her becoming  a suitable candidate for overseas commercial  
property investment, with all of the associated risks (as outlined above). And that her actual 
tolerance for risk - which, having been elevated to medium-high, I reasonably assume  was 
previously medium - was in fact ill-suited to those kinds of risks. 
This is also consistent with the comment that Mrs W wanted to reduce her exposure to 
equities as she had witnessed  losses in her pension funds. This type of sentiment is 
distinctly at odds with a strategy which then placed her pension  funds into a single high risk 
asset.
The regulators guidance  on UCIS, whilst giving examples of good and poor practice, places 
no particular cap on the percentage that this type of investment  ought  to represent in an 
investors portfolio.  This would be dependent upon the investors individual  circumstances 
and objectives.  But notwithstanding the required  attributes for an investor  to have  this type of 
investment promoted  to them,  which  Mrs W didnt possess, I dont think it was suitable to 
place close to 100% of her money  purchase  funds into one high risk investment  such  as this.
Ref: DRN08271657In terms of Mrs Ws investment experience, Insight said in the suitability report that she 
wasnt a particularly experienced investor.  She also had no experience of overseas 
investing. This also wouldnt lend itself well to an investment  of the majority  of an individuals  
pension funds in one high risk overseas investment. The same section did then say that Mrs 
W was able to understand the concept of investment risk and the level of risk which  had 
been agreed. That doesnt change my view on her risk rating  as set out above, however. 
What this really means is that Mrs W understood that she needed to be recorded as having  
an elevated attitude  to risk to render the investment suitable. And in the absence  of suitable  
advice to not elevate that risk rating and consider a more appropriate alternative,  I can 
understand why Mrs W agreed with the statement.
Insight also needed  to consider whether Mrs W had the capacity  to bear the investment risk 
she was taking (COBS 9.2.2R).  Mrs W was investing the value of virtually all of her existing 
money purchase pension  funds, so if the investment failed, her retirement  planning would be 
significantly impacted.  Her other assets,  other  than the jointly owned main home, were 
modest, and it was recorded that she didnt have  the capacity to contribute further  to pension 
planning at that point  due to her and Mr Ws focus on his businesses.  So Mrs Ws pension  
funds couldnt  have been readily replaced,  or bolstered by other significant resources. She 
simply didnt have the capacity for the kind of loss which could be sustained  with this type of 
investment.
Its fair to say that, as Mrs W still had 20 years to retirement, it might have been possible  for 
her to replace some of her pension  funds if they declined in value or were completely lost. 
But the problem  here is that, at the time,  Mrs W was focussing  on supporting her husbands 
businesses. And although  she may have had the intention  of making further  pension  
contributions when she was able, there was no indication as to when this might  be possible.
So on the basis of the above  reasoning,  my overall view is that this wasnt a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs W, or at least that Insight didnt have enough information, or enter 
into a sufficiently robust assessment of Mrs Ws attributes and circumstances to determine  
whether it was suitable for her. Had it done so, it also would have concluded, or ought to 
have concluded,  that this wasnt  a suitable recommendation for Mrs W.
Would suitable advice  have made  a difference?
Insights argument  is that, as Mr W was intent  upon investing in commercial property in 
some form,  this would  have involved Mrs W as well. This investment  was originally 
envisaged to be in the business premises of which Mr W would be a co-owner with his 
business partner.  But for whatever reason, this didnt transpire.
Insight has said in its response to the investigators assessment that, irrespective of what  the 
adviser said, Mrs W would have still invested  in the overseas property, as the objective was 
investment in some form of commercial property. I dont think  this position stands up to 
scrutiny, however.
A plan to invest in a commercial property which is directly connected to an individual,  such  
as Mr Ws, business could  be quite  understandable, even when there might be no prior 
experience of this type of asset. There might be many advantages to this, not least of which 
would be the elimination of rental payments. So this is quite a specific  investment which 
might well be justified by the particular circumstances of an individual  such as Mrs Ws 
husband, especially  if the cost was to be shared  and so may not require all the pension  
funds for the purchase. 
Ref: DRN08271658But there was no such connection between Mr or Mrs W and a yet be built overseas 
commercial property. As Ive said above,  Mrs W had no experience of this kind of 
investment. The available evidence doesnt  support  the position that this was a notion from 
which Mrs W simply couldnt be dissuaded,  even  if Insight had tried. This was a proposal  
which was introduced to Mrs W by Insight, in which  she then demonstrated  an interest, and 
which in turn was nurtured by Insight through exploring ways in which  the investment could 
be achieved  rather than undertaking  an actual suitability assessment for the proposal.
Mrs W had been recorded as wanting  to explore  whether her pension  funds  could be better 
utilised in another way. There was no specific requirement that they needed to be invested  in 
commercial property, or that Mrs W was, prior to the involvement of Insight,  interested in 
investing nearly all of her money purchase pension  funds in a single high risk asset  and in 
terms of Mrs Ws likely aversion to high levels of investment risk, Id again  draw attention  to 
her comment about being  troubled by the falls shed seen in equity funds.
Ive noted that risk warnings were given, and often emphasized in bold. For example, Insight 
said the following  in the suitability report:
I also wish to emphasise the risk when purchasing any form of property that the developer 
could go bust.  You have  acknowledged your understanding of this risk and you remain  
convinced that utilising a SIPP to purchase  commercial property is an option  you wish to 
pursue.
Mrs W clearly wasnt put off by these risk warnings, and they are clear  in terms of what  
Insight said may happen. But Insight will be aware that, where  an investment isnt for 
whatever reason suitable for an individual, the provision of risk warnings wouldnt render that 
advice suitable.  Of the two parties, Insight, as the professional firm of advisers,  needed to 
make it clear  to Mrs W that the investment  wasnt suitable, with the reasons as to why this 
was the case.  In the absence of this, Mrs W is likely to have been reassured that, despite the 
risk warnings, the investment,  as assessed  by Insight  in light of the fact finding it had 
undertaken for her, was suitable.
And ultimately, if Insight  had properly concluded that this investment wasnt suitable for Mrs 
W, it could have explained this and then, if Mrs W still wished  to proceed, and Insight was 
still prepared to transact the business  on her behalf,  categorised her as an insistent client. 
It didnt do this, and so it cannot  be known  with certainty as to whether  Mrs W would have 
acted differently if Insight  had advised against  the investment. But for the reasons given  
above, I think its more  likely than not that, if Insight had pointed  out that this investment 
wasnt suitable for Mrs W, and had advised  against  it, Mrs W would have accepted  this 
advice.
What does Insight  need to do to put things right?
Having concluded,  for the reasons set out above, that the investment  wasnt suitable for Mrs 
W, Ive then thought about  how it should  put matters  right.
My aim to is put Mrs W, as closely as possible, into the position shed be but for Insights 
unsuitable advice.  The investigator concluded  that any redress payable to Mrs W should be 
calculated on the basis that she would have  invested in a manner broadly aligned  with one 
of our benchmarks  the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return  Index  on the 
Ref: DRN08271659basis that Mrs W was prepared  to take some  risk with her pension  funds, and that this index 
consists of a mixture of asset  classes  mainly UK equities and government  bonds.
I think this is probably about  right. Mrs W had expressed concern about  the declines in 
equities in her existing portfolio, but was nevertheless prepared to take some  risk for the 
sake of future growth. And so the balancing nature of the lower risk assets in the form of 
bond holdings  in this index seems  appropriate  here.
So to calculate whether  compensation is due to Mrs W, Insight Financial  Associates  Limited  
should do the following:
It should compare  the performance of Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark 
index. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Insight  Financial Associates Limited should pay this into Mrs W's 
pension plan, to increase  its value by the amount  of the compensation and any interest. 
The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Insight Financial Associates Limited  is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs W's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct  to her. But had it been possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs W's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age. On the basis  of Mrs Ws assets and likely 
pension provision, I have assumed this to be basic rate. As Mrs W would be able to take 
a tax-free lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Insight Financial Associates  Limited  
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Ive noted Insights comments that the investment remains liquid. But if, at the end date,  
the investment  is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it may be 
difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Insight Financial Associates Limited should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
Ref: DRN082716510If Insight Financial Associates Limited is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual  
value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Insight  Financial 
Associates Limited may wish to ask Mrs W to provide an undertaking to pay it any 
amount she may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow  
for any tax and charges  that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt  from the pension 
plan. Insight  Financial Associates Limited  will need  to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Insight Financial Associates Limited may total all of those  payments 
and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Suitably advised,  Mrs W wouldnt have invested in her current  SIPP. So it wouldnt be fair if 
Mrs W continued to have  to pay annual SIPP fees if there are illiquid holdings preventing 
the SIPP from being closed. 
Ideally, Insight would take over the illiquid property investment, thus allowing the SIPP  to 
be closed. But this may not be possible. So, to give certainty to all parties,  if the investment 
is illiquid, then it is fair that Insight pay Mrs W an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of fees on the proportion of the SIPP represented  by her investment (calculated  
using the previous years fees). This gives a reasonable period to arrange for the SIPP to 
be closed.
The investigator also recommended that Insight Financial Associates Limited pay Mrs W 
the sum of £200 to reflect the likely  trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable  advice. I 
agree its quite likely that Mrs W will have been caused no insignificant amount of concern 
here, given  the proportion  of her pension funds  which has been unsuitably invested.  
So Insight Financial Associates Limited should  pay this further amount to Mrs W.
my final decision
For all the reasons given,  my decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  to pay any redress due as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN082716511
Ref: DRN0827165