K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) used a refund of 
interest and charges to reduce the outstanding balance of his credit card debt instead of 
paying it to him directly  so it could be used for mortgage arrears.  
Mr B also complains about a delay  in receiving a breakdown of the refund from Barclaycard. 
background
On 28 September  2018 Barclaycard wrote to Mr B and explained it had reviewed his old 
credit card account and decided to refund the fees and interest hed paid since  October 
2013. Barclaycards  letter  said it would use the refund  of £1,526.51 to reduce the 
outstanding credit card balance that was transferred to a third party in 2015.  
Mr B says he contacted  Barclaycard in September  2018 to ask for a breakdown  of the refund  
and is unhappy  it took until 22 November 2018  to receive it. Barclaycards contact  notes 
indicate Mr B asked for a break down on 23 October 2018. 
Mr B complained and Barclaycard responded on 28 November 2018.  Mr B went on to refer 
his complaint to our service and an adjudicator looked at it. He said Barclaycard had acted 
fairly by applying the refund to the outstanding credit card debt and that he didnt feel it had 
taken too long to provide the breakdown.  Mr B asked to appeal  the adjudicators view of his 
complaint so its been passed to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but having  
carefully considered  everything thats  been  provided Ive reached the same decision as the 
adjudicator, for broadly  the same reasons. 
Mr Bs complaint has two parts. The first is about whether it was fair of Barclaycard to use 
the refund  to reduce  the outstanding balance and the second is about  the time it took for a 
refund breakdown to be provided. 
I think the key part of Mr Bs complaint relates to the how the refund  was used. I can see 
Mr Bs provided evidence that hes behind with his mortgage and I understand why hed 
prefer to use the refund  to reduce his arrears. But I need to be fair to both parties. And whilst 
I take on board what Mr B says about  priority  debts, I havent  found hes been  treated 
unfairly by Barclaycard here. 
The adjudicator quoted  the credit card terms to Mr B in his view letter so I wont  repeat them  
again here. But in brief, the terms allow Barclaycard  to use money  it owes the card holder to 
reduce any balance thats outstanding.  In this case,  that means whilst Barclaycard has found 
it had cause to refund some of the interest  and charges Mr B has paid,  its allowed  to use 
that refund to reduce  what he owes. 
I take on board what Mr B says about  priority  debts and I appreciate hes been  through  a 
difficult time. But Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted fairly  by using the refund to reduce the 
outstanding credit card debt. 
Ref: DRN05109112Mr B says he asked Barclaycard to provide a breakdown of the refund in September 2018 
but it didnt respond  until 22 November 2018. I note the first letter about the refund is dated 
28 September 2018 and that the first note of the breakdown request on Barclaycards  
contact notes is 23 October 2018. It appears, from the evidence  available, that Mr B 
requested the breakdown on 23 October  2018 and Barclaycard responded around a month 
later. I havent found that Mr Bs breakdown request  was unreasonably delayed. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B but I think Barclaycards decision to apply the refund to his 
outstanding balance was fair and in line with the account terms. And I havent seen any 
evidence of a delay in providing  breakdown  figures. Im satisfied its dealt with Mr Bs 
complaint fairly so Im not going to tell Barclaycard  to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0510911