K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms C say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Ms C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2008.  They  paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The policy provided cover for Mr C only. Mrs C wasnt  covered by the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Ms Cs case.  Having done so, Ive decided  not 
to uphold Mr and Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander shouldve  made it clear  the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mr and Ms Cs 
agreement to buy it. Mr and Ms C says it wasnt made clear  to them  that the PPI was 
optional. Ive seen  a copy of Mr and Ms Cs application form for the PPI. There  were 
separate sections  on the form to sign if they did, and didnt,  want  the PPI. Mr C signed to 
confirm he did want the PPI. So I think Santander made Mr and Ms C aware that they had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Ms C, so it shouldve made sure it was right for 
them. Mr and Ms C say they didnt need the policy as Mr C wouldve received  some sick pay 
from his employer. 
Mr and Ms Cs mortgage was a significant,  long-term, financial commitment.  If Mr C couldnt 
work for a long period  of time they may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the mortgage was 
secured on their home,  Mr and Ms C couldve potentially lost their property if they fell into 
financial difficulties. So overall the PPI seems  to have been right for them  based on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time.
The PPI wouldve paid Mr and Ms Cs mortgage  payment if Mr C couldnt work  due to illness, 
or he lost his job. The payment wouldve been in addition to any employer,  or unemployment  
benefits, he might have received if this happened. It couldve provided a payment for up to 
12 months per claim. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr and Ms C couldnt afford to make the monthly payments for 
the PPI at the time of sale. And Mr C doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical  conditions.  So it seems  to 
have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.  
Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale.  The cost of the policy was 
shown. So I think Mr and Ms C wouldve understood how much they would need to pay for it. 
But its possible Santander  didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But as I 
Ref: DRN01901542said earlier, based on what  I know about Mr and Ms Cs circumstances, it looks  like the 
policy couldve been useful to them.  So I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped  
them buying  it. And I dont think Mr and Ms C have lost out due to anything  that Santander  
mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0190154