K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) is about the surrender 
of his life policy.
background
Mr H called Aviva on 24 April 2018  to surrender  his life policy.  On 2 May, Aviva wrote  to 
Mr H to confirm  that the policy had been  surrendered and that £15,871.50 had been 
forwarded to his nominated account in full and final settlement. Aviva also sent Mr H a text 
message the following day to confirm the payment. And on 25 June, Aviva sent Mr H a 
chargeable gain certificate  in relation to his surrendered  policy.    
Between April and July 2018, Mr H called Aviva a number of times, and sent them letters 
and faxes, to query the surrender process and complain about how Aviva had handled 
things. 
Aviva offered Mr H £100 in compensation. They said that when Mr H called on 24 April they 
should have given him an estimate of how long the surrender process would take.  They also 
apologised that their text message on 3 May had caused him concern. 
As Mr H was dissatisfied with Avivas  response, he brought  his complaint to the ombudsman  
service. He complains about: 
The time taken for Aviva to process the surrender of his policy  on 24 April,  and the 
declarations he had to respond  to.
How Aviva dealt with his calls and correspondence about  the surrender  of his policy.
Avivas failure to clarify how the surrender value was calculated.
Aviva  misspelling his address on a number of letters.
His Aviva  policies  being administered by third party companies, and that he hasnt  
received information  he requested from those companies and Aviva. 
Our investigator said that Mr Hs complaint point about third party  companies  administering 
his policies had already  been considered by this service. I wont therefore be looking  at that 
point in this decision. 
In relation to Mr Hs other complaint  points, our investigator didnt think  Aviva needed to do 
anything more to resolve  things. Mr H disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman to make  
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ill now explain my findings on each of 
Mr Hs complaint points.
surrender of policy
Ive listened to a recording  of the call Mr H made to Aviva on 24 April.
Mr H complains that it took 39 minutes to arrange the surrender of his policy.  Aviva have 
apologised for how they handled the call. Theyve accepted their call handler should  have  
Ref: DRN03724482given Mr H an estimate of how long the process would take. That would have allowed Mr H 
to decide whether to go ahead, or to arrange a call for a more convenient time.
Its not unreasonable for a call of this nature to take a little time. A business will generally 
need to make some security checks,  and want  to be sure a customer  is aware of the 
implications of surrendering a policy. 
In this case, I know Mr H was concerned about the time taken to read out a number of 
declarations. Its up to Aviva to decide  their own processes,  including the declarations  they 
would expect a customer to agree to before going ahead with a transaction.  Having listened  
to the call, I think the call handler followed Avivas process and I dont think  she did anything  
wrong in going  through the declarations with Mr H. 
Mr H asked a number  of questions during the call. For example, he asked why it was 
necessary for Aviva to leave a footprint  on his credit file when he wasnt  applying for credit. 
That was a reasonable question, and Mr H was entitled to ask Aviva for further information 
during the call. But its understandable  that the call would therefore take longer than it 
otherwise might have.  
I agree  with our investigator that, at times,  the call handler could have dealt with things more  
quickly. And, as Aviva  have acknowledged, it would have been useful for the advisor to let 
Mr H know in advance how long the process was likely to take.
So I agree that Aviva  could have handled  the call better. But I think the call handler was 
doing her best to help Mr H, and he was able to surrender his policy  as hed requested. 
Aviva have apologised and offered Mr H compensation. I think thats sufficient, and so I 
wont be asking them to do anything more.  
other calls and correspondence about  the surrender
Mr H has also raised a number of complaint points relating to his calls and correspondence 
with Aviva about the surrender of his policy. 
Mr H complained that Avivas letter of 2 May referred  to his recent correspondence. 
He was concerned  because  he said he hadnt  corresponded with Aviva about  the surrender  
of his policy. 
Aviva didnt initially respond to Mr H on this point when  they should  have. But in their letter  of 
14 June they apologised  to Mr H for that. I note also that, a couple  of days before Avivas 
letter of 2 May, Mr H had faxed them a letter complaining about his phone call on 24 April.  
So I dont  think Aviva did anything wrong by referring to recent  correspondence and I wont 
be asking them to do anything further in relation to this point.
Mr H was also concerned  that he didnt initially receive Avivas letter  of 25 May, and that his 
personal data might  have  been compromised. He felt Aviva  were dismissive of his concerns 
because they said they werent responsible for anything that went  wrong  once theyd sent 
the letter. 
I agree  with our investigator that, although  Aviva did take Mr Hs concerns seriously, they 
could have worded their response to him more sympathetically. But I also agree that it 
Ref: DRN03724483wouldnt be fair to hold Aviva responsible for Mr H not receiving a letter,  when theres 
evidence that it was sent to him. 
Mr H has also complained  about  a call he made  to Aviva after hed received the chargeable 
gain certificate. Mr H queried why it had taken so long to receive the certificate  and asked 
about Avivas service level agreements. 
The first person Mr H spoke to told him a letter would normally  be sent within  two weeks. 
Mr H was then transferred to a second person who told him the service level for sending 
chargeable gain certificates  was three months.  Ive listened to a recording of both 
conversations.
The second  adviser apologised that Mr H had at first been given incorrect  information. I can 
understand why this would have been frustrating  for Mr H. But Mr H was given the correct 
information on the same day, and Aviva have  apologised  for what  happened. 
I know Mr H was also unhappy with the rest of his conversation  with the second Aviva 
adviser. I note that Aviva  have apologised for the frustration this call caused to Mr H. 
Having listened  to the call, I think the adviser  tried to help Mr H and Avivas apology is 
sufficient. 
Overall, I think Avivas  call handlers  have generally  done their best to help Mr H. Aviva have 
apologised where calls have not gone  as well as they or Mr H would have liked.  And I dont 
think they need to do anything more  to put things  right.
calculation of surrender value  and tax liability
When Mr H complained to the ombudsman service  in June 2018, he was unhappy that Aviva 
hadnt provided him with information  on how the surrender value of his policy  was calculated. 
Aviva have said they dont  automatically  provide a customer with a breakdown of the 
surrender value. If a customer requests it, they do so within  10 working  days. Theyve said 
they provided Mr H with a breakdown in their letter of 14 June, within  10 working days  of his 
request. 
Mr H also complained about how long it took Aviva to confirm his tax liability. Aviva  have 
said they send  chargeable gain certificates  within  three months, and that they comply with 
HMRC requirements in this area. In this case, they issued  a certificate to Mr H on 
25 June 2018,  within their three month  timescale.
Having looked  at whats happened, I dont think Aviva have done anything  wrong in relation 
to these complaint  points.  So I wont  be asking  them to do anything  further.
address misspelling
Mr H has also complained  that Aviva misspelt  his address on letters  they sent him on 
19 March and 13 April 2018.  
I can understand why Mr H would be concerned about that. But I note that he received both 
letters, and Aviva have  apologised  for their mistake. As Mr H hasnt lost out as a result  of 
Avivas mistake, I think  their apology is sufficient, and I wont be asking them  to do anything  
more. 
Ref: DRN03724484summary
In summary,  Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive looked at everything hes said about the 
service hes received from Aviva. Ive also listened  to recordings of his calls with Aviva.
 
I realise this wont be the decision Mr H was hoping for. But overall, I think  Avivas  offer to 
pay £100 in compensation is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking them to do anything  
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limiteds offer of £100  to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0372448