K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains about Barclays Bank  UK PLCs handling of her request for chargebacks.
background 
I set out the background  to Ms Ws complaint in my earlier  decision,  which  was a provisional 
decision. However, I set out that background again here in my final decision  so that all 
relevant information  is included  in this one document.
In December 2017 Ms W contacted Barclays for help about recovering money from a third 
party who I will call T. To get her money  back Ms W wanted to use a process called 
chargeback. Chargeback is a process  which allows customers to ask for a transaction  to 
be reversed if there  is a problem with goods or services  that they have paid for. Although 
there is no automatic  right to a chargeback.
In March 2018 Ms W decided to contact a third party,  a lawyers firm to help her with the 
chargeback process.  I will call the firm of lawyers L. She told us the reason she did this 
was because;
Whilst I understood  that there  could be no certainties re the submission of the 
chargebacks, I felt that [name of Barclays employee] was not really prepared  to fight my 
case. At this point,  I contacted an independent company. I felt I had nothing  to lose by 
doing so.
Barclays carried out a number of chargebacks some of them  were  successful  and Ms W 
got her money  back. Some of the chargebacks failed  and she did not get a refund. In 
addition, she suggests that she was obliged  to hire L due to the actions of the employee 
of Barclays, so Barclays ought to pay for this.
Barclays accepted  that it made mistakes with the chargebacks. Amongst  other things it 
accepts that it took too long to do some  things in relation to the chargeback  process. 
Moreover, it indicated that its actions  may have caused Ms W distress  and inconvenience. 
To make up for this it has already paid Ms W £150  for distress and inconvenience. Albeit 
Ms W tells us Barclays did this without telling her and without  her permission.
Dissatisfied Ms W came  to our service.
Once Ms Ws complaint  was with us, Barclays worked out how much Ms W would have
been refunded  if the chargebacks that failed had succeeded. It worked out that the relevant
sum is £23,151.60.  Ms W is prepared to accept that this amount is correct although the
figure she came to when  she worked it out was different. It also offered a further £100 for
distress and inconvenience. It did this because it suggested it had not always  provided the
level of customer service  Ms W was entitled to expect. It did not accept that it had done
anything else wrong in relation to the chargebacks.
Ms W wasnt prepared  to accept the offer. She wrote a detailed  response reiterating in part 
points shed made before. She also added  I do not accept the £100 compensation for 
inconvenience caused which Barclays wishes to give. This complaint has never been about
inconvenience.
 
Ref: DRN02522452In brief,  I concluded  that although there  had been issues  with the way Barclays went about 
processing the chargebacks Ms W had ultimately  got back  all of the money she would have 
got back if all her chargebacks had succeeded. That being so I didnt think there  was 
anything further  I could fairly and reasonably require Barclays to do in relation to this 
complaint point.
Further, I did not agree that anything Barclays had done had reasonably  required Ms W to 
instruct L. Rather, I concluded  that shed made a choice to engage L for her own reasons. 
For example, she had mentioned that the Barclays employee had mentioned luck more 
than once in a call she had with it. This seemed to undermine her confidence in Barclays. It 
seems Ms W instructed  L in the aftermath  of that call. In the circumstances, I did not agree 
that I had any proper basis for telling Barclays it had to refund Ms W for Ls fees.
I saw that Ms W did not complain about inconvenience. Therefore, I said Barclays  might  
want to reconsider its offer to pay her an additional £100 for inconvenience.
My provisional decision was that Barclays Bank  UK PLC pay Ms W £23,151.60 as it
had already offered to do.
I invited both Ms W and Barclays to respond to my provisional decision, they both did. 
Barclays confirmed it agreed  with my provisional decision that it should refund £23,151.60  to 
Ms W. It also told us it had nothing further to add. Ms W wrote  a detailed  response.  
In summary,  in her response,  Ms W pointed out she had first contacted Barclays in 
December 2017  whereas  my provisional  decision suggested this had happened  in February 
2018. 
Further Ms W reiterated that in her opinion Barclays behaviour  had reasonably forced  her 
hand when it came to hiring L. She added it was both delays by Barclays and the call she 
had with the Barclays employee that led to her making the decision to hire L.
Ms W read my provisional decision as saying that [she] had the responsibility  to pursue 
[her] case  rather than relying on the professional skills of the Dispute and Complaints 
Departments to manage it on [her] behalf.   
Moreover, Ms W told us she still has unanswered questions about  the chargeback process 
and how it was implemented by Barclays. She wanted responses to those questions.  
Ms W suggests that her complaint is not that if the chargebacks had been done correctly she 
would have got all of her money back. Rather  she tell us I fully appreciated from the outset 
that there  was no guarantee  of success.
In my provisional I had explained that this service decides disputed issues on the balance of 
probabilities. Ms W objected to what I had said about this on the basis that she found  what  I 
had said about  this point to be inaccurate as she took it to be a direct comment about her 
behaviour. She added I submit in the strongest possible terms that I take very seriously  any 
slight on my honesty, integrity or openness in respect of my submissions for this complaint
In addition, Ms W suggested that Barclays had breached its regulatory obligations in the way 
it had dealt with her. She suggested that some  of Barclays actions amounted to a catalogue 
of institutional failures. Ms W indicated this had not been dealt  with in my provisional 
decision. 
Ref: DRN02522453Finally, Ms W wanted to go on record to say she will return the £150 Barclays had paid her 
for inconvenience.
my findings
I thank both Ms W and Barclays for their responses  to my provisional  decision. Ive 
considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the complete file again  and 
revisited my provisional decision. Having done all of this I have not been persuaded to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I recognise  this may disappoint 
Ms W, that is not my intention, far from it. Please let me explain my reasoning.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise Ms W did first contact Barclays in December  2017 and I have changed  the 
background section  of this decision to reflect this. I had mentioned  February 2018 in my 
provisional decision because this is the point  when Ms W had the call with the Barclays 
employee which she said caused her to employ  L. 
As I have already  mentioned  Ms W initially told us it was the telephone call she had with the 
Barclays employee who she concluded  was not going to fight her case that made  her decide 
to hire L. She now also says it was what she perceived as the delays by Barclays that also 
made her take this decision. But I dont think the content of the call, or the time taken at that 
point (three months) was so unreasonable that Barclays ought  foot the bill for Ms Ws 
decision to seek assistance from a third party that she had to pay. Albeit  I do realise that she 
sees this point differently.
I can also confirm I was not suggesting  in my provisional decision, she was obliged to deal 
with her complaint  herself. She was perfectly  entitled to appoint a firm to act for her if that is 
what she wanted to do. But that was her choice. 
Ms W suggests I have misunderstood  her complaint  as she now says she did not complain 
that if the chargeback had been handled differently she may have got back  all of her money.  
But she also tells us that one of her complaint points is:
Redress from Barclays acknowledgement that if things had been dealt with appropriately,  
the outcome may have been different and (she) may have been able to recoup all her 
losses.
In any event, Ms W has now recouped  all her losses in relation to the chargebacks.  I take on 
board that Ms W has questions she would still like the answers to in relation to the 
chargebacks. But since she has now had a full refund of the money she would have got if all 
the chargebacks  had been successful I think Barclays has done enough.
Ref: DRN02522454Where there is a dispute between the parties  about what  happened, I have to come to a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. This does not mean I am slighting Ms Ws honesty, 
integrity or openness.  I regret that she concluded that was what  was happening  here. And I 
welcome this opportunity  to reassure her about  this.
Ms W is correct in her suggestion  that Barclays is subject to regulatory obligations. And I 
would expect it to abide by them and should  it breach them  I would look at the impact this 
has had on Ms W and if I thought she had been  treated unfairly  as a result I would ask the 
bank to make an appropriate award.  And that is what  I have  looked  at here. But Ms W 
seems to want me to go further, Ive noted  what Ms W has said about Barclays failings, but 
Im not the regulator. Its not for me to fine financial businesses, and the awards  I make  
arent intended to be a punishment.
Ive not been persuaded by the points raised in Ms Ws response to my provisional  decision.  
It follows that I have come  to the same conclusions for the same  reasons as I set out in my 
provisional decision and set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC must pay Ms W £23,151.60  as it has 
already offered to do.
Barclays must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Ms W 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% a 
year simple.
If Barclays considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Ms W how much its taken  off. It should also give Ms W a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0252245