K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complained because Santander  UK Plc lost some of their financial 
documents. They say theyre concerned about the security of their personal data and 
worried that they might be vulnerable to fraud.
background
In August  2018,  Mr S was in a Santander  branch to talk about his and Mrs Ks existing  
business account. While he was there,  Mr S enquired about a possible mortgage  application.  
He left documents with the adviser, as these might be needed for a mortgage  application.  
Theres a dispute  about exactly what documents were left, which  Ill discuss later,  but both 
sides agree  that the documents included three years of accounts  for their business.
A Santander mortgage adviser rang them, but on 13 September  the bank declined to lend. It 
was agreed that Mrs K would collect the documents  from the branch  where  Mr S had left 
them. The branch took the documents out of secure storage and wrote the name of Mr S 
and Mrs Ks business on the envelope, but not the address. 
At the end of the day, the envelope should  have been put back  into secure storage for Mrs K 
to collect. But by mistake, it was picked up and put in the branchs post bag instead. So 
when Mrs K came in the next day, the envelope was missing. The adviser realised at once 
what had happened  and the branch started to try and trace the envelope.
Mr S and Mrs K complained. They said they were  worried  about third parties getting access 
to the documents. And they needed the accounts for their mortgage  application  with another 
lender.
Santander continued to look for the missing  documents. At the end of September,  it updated 
Mr S and Mrs K, who told Santander  they were going to miss out on a property they wanted 
to buy, because the accounts were missing.  Santander offered to pay for copies and asked 
for their accountants details so it could organise  this. Mr S and Mrs K refused.
Mr S and Mrs K asked for an update on a number of occasions. On 18 October, Santander 
asked for copies of any invoices relating  to costs Mr S and Mrs K had incurred because of 
the banks error.
Santander rang Mr S and Mrs K 23 November. It asked what they were  looking for to resolve 
the complaint.  Mr S and Mrs K said that they now had some accounts. But they raised  a new 
point, saying the envelope had also contained  photographic ID of passports and driving 
licence, as well as bank  statements.  Mr S and Mrs K hadnt mentioned this before.  But three 
of the Santander branch staff involved said the envelope had only contained the three years 
of accounts.
There was another  phone conversation  on 27 November. Santander told Mr S and Mrs K 
that it had decided that enough time had passed for it to conclude  that the documents  
couldnt be found. So it was looking at compensation. Santander asked if Mr S and Mrs K 
had a receipt or invoice as evidence for the cost of replacing the accounts.  Mrs K said they 
hadnt asked for replacements yet.
In its final response on 4 December, Santander  accepted that it had posted the documents 
instead of Mrs K collecting them, as a result  of which the bank couldnt trace  them. It offered 
Ref: DRN02478142Mr S and Mrs K £200 compensation.  The bank  said it considered  this would include an 
amount to replace the lost accounts if they wished to. It said that if they found the cost was 
more, they should get in touch.
But Santander didnt  agree that there had also been  photographic ID and bank statements. It 
gave the names  of three staff who had said the envelope had only contained  accounts.
Mr K and Mrs S werent satisfied and complained to this service.  
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr K and Mrs Ss complaint. He said there  was no proof 
Santander had had the photographic ID and bank  statements, so he couldnt ask the bank to 
compensate Mr S and Mrs K. He asked Mr S and Mrs K why it had taken so long to find out 
the cost of replacing their accounts.  Mrs K explained that Santanders  refusal to lend had 
meant theyd lost the property they had wanted.  Theyd then approached another lender but 
couldnt make another mortgage  application because  their accountant had been on holiday 
so they hadnt been  able to ask for another copy of the accounts.  She said theyd be 
obtaining copy accounts shortly, as theyd seen another property.
Mr S and Mrs K replied  that theyd definitely provided three months of bank statements, 
because they werent  with their other  bank  statements  and they were  a requirement for 
mortgage applications. They wanted the investigator to listen  to the phone calls between  
themselves and Santander.  
The investigator replied  that calls hadnt been recorded. He didnt change his opinion,  saying 
there was no record that Mr S and Mrs K had provided these documents.
Mr S and Mrs K werent satisfied, and said they wanted to take it further.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Santander has told us that it doesnt have 
call recordings  of the phone calls between Mr S and Mrs K and the branch. So I cant listen  
to them  as Mr S and Mrs K would  like, but I have  considered all the other evidence.
I recognise that its upsetting and worrying when personal information goes missing.  Sadly,  
neither Santander  nor I can change what happened. So my job is to consider what  
compensation would be fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances.
What documents  were  lost
First, Ive looked at the disagreement about  what documents  were  lost. Mr S and Mrs K, and 
Santander, all agree that three years of accounts  were in the envelope which  went  missing. 
The dispute  is about whether or not the envelope  also contained photocopies of 
photographic ID (passport and driving  licence),  and bank statements.
When evidence conflicts, I make my decision on what I think  it more  likely to have happened, 
taking into account  all the circumstances and the available evidence.  
Ive looked at the circumstances.  Mr S had gone  into the branch to talk about the business 
account. While he was there, the question of a possible mortgage arose. It wasnt  what Mr S 
had arranged to talk about,  in advance of the appointment. And the adviser  he saw wasnt a 
Ref: DRN02478143mortgage adviser. So I consider its unlikely Mr S would have had taken with him the 
photographic ID for himself and his wife Mrs K, or their personal bank statements. 
And Mr S and Mrs K were already customers of Santander. So I think its unlikely theyd 
have been asked for photographic ID anyway.  
What Mr S would have had with him for the meeting to talk about the business account,  was 
the business accounts. So I think its more  likely  than not that what  was in the envelope 
which went missing was just the business accounts,  not photographic ID or bank statements. 
Ive also borne in mind  that Mr S and Mrs K didnt say that the envelope  had also contained 
the photographic  ID and bank statements, until 23 November.  That was a long time after the 
original loss was discovered in mid-September.  And three Santander staff all said that the 
envelope had definitely only contained  the business  accounts.
So I find that its more  likely than not that Mr S and Mrs K were mistaken and the only 
documents in the envelope  which went missing  were the business accounts. These would 
have had Mr S and Mrs Ks names and address, and their financial situation, but not 
information such as their dates of birth.
 
Compensation
This service cant make findings on whether or not a bank  has breached data protection  or 
GDPR rules, because thats  the role of the Information Commissioner. So its not for me to 
say whether the rules were broken, but I can consider compensation for the upset 
consumers may have suffered.
When this service considers compensation, we look at the impact  a banks actions have had 
on the consumer.  Here, Mr S and Mrs K have said that they were worried  that the loss of 
their personal data might make them vulnerable  to fraud. They also said that they lost a 
property they wanted  to buy, because they didnt have their business  accounts which  had 
been in the envelope  which  went missing, and their accountant was on holiday.
I understand that Mr S and Mrs K were worried about whether the loss of their business 
accounts might make  them vulnerable to fraud, and Ive taken that into account in 
considering what  would  be fair and reasonable compensation.
But Im not persuaded that the missing envelope  meant that Mr S and Mrs K lost a property. 
They have said they couldnt get a copy because the accountant was on holiday.  Given a 
mortgage application will usually  take numerous weeks  to be processed and most people  
only take a fortnight of holiday at most, it seems unlikely that the lack of accounts to hand 
would have prevented them from starting  the process for a mortgage elsewhere. At most it 
would have delayed  the application being fully assessed by a week or two.
And even  if they had given Santander their only copy, these days obtaining a replacement 
from the accountant should be as simple as an email with the accounts  attached.
On a number  of occasions,  Santander asked Mr S and Mrs K about  getting replacement 
copies of their accounts from their accountant. The bank  asked  this so it could reimburse 
any cost which Mr S and Mrs K suffered as a result of Santanders mistake.
But over the course  of the complaint, Mr S and Mrs K supplied varying versions of why they 
hadnt asked their accountant  for replacement accounts. They said the accountant was on 
Ref: DRN02478144holiday at one point.  But the problem was discovered in late September  2018,  and when the 
investigator spoke to Mrs K in April 2019, they still hadnt asked their accountant for a 
replacement copy.
So I am not persuaded that the copy which went missing while  in Santanders  care was vital 
or urgent for Mr S and Mrs K. If it had been, I consider theyd have needed to ask their 
accountant for a replacement more urgently. 
So the key element for compensation is Mr S and Mrs Ks worry that the missing accounts 
might have got into the wrong hands, making them vulnerable to fraud. I understand that this 
would have been worrying  whatever the situation about replacements. So I find that it was 
fair and reasonable for Santander to pay Mr S and Mrs K compensation for this distress and 
anxiety. I consider that £200, which the bank offered, was fair and reasonable for this. So I 
do not consider  Santander need  do more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr S and Mrs K to decide  
whether or not they wish to go back to Santander  UK Plc to ask whether its offer of £200  is 
still available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN0247814