K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  how Covea  Insurance plc handled their claim following an 
escape of sewage water.
background
Mr and Mrs J had a home  insurance  policy with Covea. In July 2017 a collapsed  pipe caused 
sewage water to leak into the property from the downstairs  toilet causing damage to some of 
the hallway and the basement  rooms. Mr and Mrs J made a claim on the insurance.
Covea appointed a contractor to visit the property and drying and sanitisation work began. 
As most of the damage was in the basement of the property  it was decided that alternative 
accommodation wouldnt be necessary, so Mr and Mrs J remained at the property.
By September Mr and Mrs J werent  satisfied with how the claim was progressing  and opted 
to appoint their own loss adjuster to manage  the claim. Around this time Mrs J raised 
concerns with Coveas  contractor about  mould developing and the impact it was having  on 
an existing heath  condition.
In December 2017 Covea agreed  that an air quality test should  be carried out. And in 
January 2018  the property was deemed  uninhabitable due to the results  and Mr and Mrs J 
and their son were moved into alternative  accommodation where they stayed for six months 
while the remaining  repairs took place. 
Following completion of the work  Mr and Mrs J made a complaint. They  said that there had 
been long delays to the process. Mrs J also said the fact they had remained in the house  
had worsened  her and her sons health  condition and she felt Covea should have acted 
sooner to move them out. 
Covea upheld their complaint.  It said it accepted  there had been  some avoidable delays to 
the claim process. However it said some of these  were  due to Mr and Mrs Js own loss 
adjuster. It also acknowledged that the air quality may have had an impact on Mrs J and her 
sons health. It offered  £750 compensation to make up for the distress  caused.  
Mr and Mrs J didnt think this was enough to make up for the impact  Coveas  handling of the 
claim had on them  and their health.  They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that although he could 
see there had been avoidable delays he thought the £750 Covea had offered in 
compensation was enough to make up for this. And he said he didnt think  the worsening  of 
Mrs J and her sons health could be fairly attributed to Covea.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and asked for their complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04320262Covea has accepted that there were some  avoidable delays during its handling of this claim.  
And it agrees it should have informed them of possible  alternative accommodation sooner. 
However Mr and Mrs J dont think  Covea has offered enough compensation  to make up for 
the impact its poor handling has had on them. I have therefore considered what Covea got 
wrong and the impact  this has had on Mr and Mrs J. Having done so, I dont  agree  that 
Covea has done  enough to put things right. I will explain why below.
Since I have come to a different  outcome  to our investigator, I have put my decision to both 
Covea and Mr and Mrs J for their comments. I have considered these as part of this 
decision. 
Following their first visit to the property, Coveas contractor noted that there  was 2cm of 
standing contaminated water  and that contents  had been damaged.  As it was sewage water 
there was a greater  need for quick action.  And I can see that the area was cleared  and 
sanitised quickly. However at the time there were no air quality  checks  carried  out to check 
for further  contamination. And a number of items  of contents were left in the basement after 
the water  had been cleared, which eventually  led to mould developing on them.
Mrs J has said that she had concerns about her and her sons  existing health conditions,  and 
that mould had developed and was contaminating  the air. She asked Coveas contractors for 
an air quality  test and in a meeting in September she explained to them about her worsening  
condition. However  at this time no action was taken.  Covea accept  that its contractors were 
informed. But say that the information  wasnt passed  on, so it wasnt  aware. Although  I 
appreciate that Covea  wasnt made  aware at this stage, the contractors were  working  as its 
agents. So Covea  is responsible for their actions.  And I think  it was reasonable that by telling 
its contractors,  Mr and Mrs J felt they had informed Covea of the worsening situation. 
At the meeting in September Mrs J says she explained to the contractor that her and her son 
were having  to wear  masks while they sleep  because they were concerned about their 
worsening health. Further, I can see that the loss adjuster she appointed  shortly after this 
raised their health concerns again  in an email to Covea in October.  However no action was 
taken to address  these  concerns until the end of December when an air quality test was 
carried out. The results  of this meant the house  was deemed uninhabitable, but Mr and 
Mrs J werent  provided with alternative accommodation until January  2018  nearly four 
months after they first raised concerns. 
I think this would have  been understandably distressing for Mr and Mrs J. Mrs J and her son 
had conditions that caused  them problems with their breathing. And they felt it was getting 
worse to the point they were wearing masks around  the house,  including to bed. Further,  
Mrs J has provided  a report from a medical  specialist which supports her claims that her 
condition has worsened. No doubt the insured event itself would have unfortunately had an 
impact on her condition, however I think had Covea taken action sooner, it would likely have 
lessoned the impact and certainly the worry and distress it has caused. 
Covea has said that if Mr and Mrs J had requested  alternative  accommodation at the start of 
the claim,  then it would have been provided. However Mr and Mrs J said they werent aware 
this is something that would be possible. Considering the circumstances I think  it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs J to assume  it would be safe to live in the house if they werent 
advised to move out by Covea or its agents,  as they were the experts.  So I dont agree it 
was for Mr and Mrs J to request this.
Ref: DRN04320263Further, the loss adjuster  advised after the first visit that Mr and Mrs J would need to be 
moved out of the house. They stated  in an email to Covea it has also been confirmed that 
the consumer  is unable to stay in the property. However  this was later revised  due to the 
size of the property  and the fact that the damage was largely contained in the basement. But 
its clear from this that some consideration  was given to the potential  contamination,  
however it wasnt followed  up and alternative  accommodation wasnt  offered to begin with.
Finally, having reviewed all correspondence and reports  in relation to the claim, I can see 
that as the claim  progressed Covea provided  few updates. Mrs J had to continually  chase it 
and often had to send two emails  before she received a response.  This would have added to 
the distress and inconvenience  the claim was already  causing  her and her family.
Covea has offered £750 compensation  to make up for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs J and their family. However considering  the impact  the handling of the 
claim has had on them and in particular on Mrs Js health, I dont agree this is enough. 
Mrs J and her son had to endure living in a house  where the conditions were  worsening and 
they felt it was having an impact on their health.  They felt they needed to wear  masks when 
inside in order to try and mitigate the problem.  When they raised this with Coveas agent and 
through their own loss adjuster, nothing was done. This would have been very distressing 
and no doubt  had an impact on their lives. But due to the fact Mrs Js condition  has been 
impacted by the situation, it may have longer lasting implications. Although I cant say Covea 
is fully to blame for the worsening of Mrs Js health, I certainly think  the fact it didnt offer 
alternative accommodation was more distressing because of the condition.  I therefore think  
Covea should  pay an additional £750  compensation  to bring  the total to £1,500 to make up 
for the impact its handling of the claim had on Mr and Mrs J. 
 my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr and Mrs J an additional 
£750 compensation  a total of £1,500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0432026