K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with Nationwides handling of his fraud claim after he fell victim  to an online 
scam.
Background
On 19 September  2018, Mr M was doing  some online shopping on his laptop when a screen 
popped up saying  his files had been corrupted.  Mr M was advised to call Microsoft on the 
number on screen to get the issue resolved. When he called  the number, Mr M said he 
spoke to an individual who said he worked  for Microsoft and would be able to fix the problem 
for him.
 
Mr M has told us this third party was able to take control of his screen and he noticed 
different things appearing on the screen for a while before it went back to normal.  Eventually,  
the third party  told Mr M the issue had been fixed and that he would now need to pay $500 
for the service which had just been  provided.  A payment for $500 (£379.92), plus an 
additional transaction fee, was then processed  using Mr Ms Nationwide  debit card details. 
Mr M first reports the matter to Nationwide on 20 September 2018. At this point, the 
transaction is showing as pending on his account. Mr M has told us Nationwide  said the 
payment would be stopped from leaving his account as it hadnt yet gone through.  
During Nationwides investigation into the scam,  Mr M initially  suggests  he doesnt know  how 
the payment couldve been made  as he didnt disclose  his card details to the fraudsters. 
However, during  a later call, Mr M tells Nationwide he panicked and gave his card details  
over the phone to them.  Hed also attempted to make  the payment on two other cards first  
but these attempts had not gone  through. 
After investigating  the fraud claim,  Nationwide  told Mr M they wouldnt be refunding him the 
£379.92 that he had lost, on the basis that he had authorised the payment  himself. 
Nationwide repeated this stance in their final response letter  (dated 5 October  2018) after Mr 
M raised a formal complaint about  how his fraud claim had been handled. However, they did 
award him £75 for failing to unblock  his online banking sooner than they did. This was done 
as a precaution  when  Mr M had initially raised his concerns about  the scam.
Mr M was unhappy with Nationwides response  and he brought  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint   but didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong  in processing  the transaction at Mr Ms request. And there wasnt anything 
about the payment itself that meant  it was unusual enough for Nationwide  to have 
intervened. 
The investigator also considered if Nationwide couldve done  anything else to help Mr M  
but again felt there was nothing else they couldve done on this occasion.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. He said that the other two attempted  payments 
had been blocked by their issuers and Nationwide should have done the same.  Mr M 
believes this is an indicator that Nationwides security  systems arent  up to the same 
standard as other businesses. Mr M also re-iterated that he had reported the scam to 
Nationwide when the payment was still pending  but Nationwide  still let the payment go 
through. 
Ref: DRN03438542I have since contacted Mr M and informed  him that I am minded to reach  the same  
outcome as our investigator  for much the same reasons. Mr M did not agree. He re-
iterated that he felt Nationwide shouldve picked up on this payment and blocked it or at 
least, have stopped it from leaving  his account once hed reported the scam. 
As an agreement has not yet been reached, the complaint is now with me for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I wont  be 
upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Whilst Mr M did provide some conflicting  information about how the payment  happened, Im 
persuaded the most likely  scenario is that Mr M disclosed his card details to the fraudsters to 
allow them to make the payment, Mr M says as much during one of his calls with 
Nationwide. I appreciate that Mr M was tricked into providing his card details. However, this 
does mean  the starting position  here is that Mr M authorised the payment  and Nationwide,  in 
following his instructions, would not be liable for his loss.
However, there are sometimes  other reasons why it may be appropriate for financial 
institutions like Nationwide to refund  the payment still. So, Ive also considered  if Nationwide  
shouldve taken any other steps  on this occasion  to protect  Mr M from financial harm  and 
whether this wouldve made a difference. 
I know Mr M feels strongly that this payment  shouldve been blocked by Nationwide before 
it could leave his account  in the same  way that the other two attempted payments were. Mr 
M feels  that if other issuers were able to identify the transaction as suspicious, Nationwide  
should have been able to do the same. But I dont agree. I dont think there was anything  
inherently suspicious or unusual enough  about this transaction that meant Nationwide 
shouldve picked up on it and stopped  it from leaving his account.  The payment isnt unusual 
when compared  to Mr Ms typical account activity - it is a single payment, for a relatively 
small amount and it leaves Mr M with a significant  account balance. And so I dont think 
there was anything about the transaction that shouldve alerted Nationwide  Mr M was 
potentially falling victim  to a scam.
I also dont think that it necessarily follows that just because  other  payments were  blocked, 
Nationwide mustve made an error here - all banks  will have  slightly different criteria as to 
what will/wont flag on their security systems. And I dont think there was anything about  this 
payment that meant Nationwide shouldve picked up on it and not fulfilled its obligations to 
follow Mr Ms payment instruction.
Ive also thought about what  Mr M has told me about the payment still appearing as 
pending on his account at the time he initially  contacted Nationwide about  the scam.  But 
ultimately a pending payment cannot be stopped  once the card payment process has been 
started. Although the transaction  appears as pending on the account,  it has been 
authorised and it isnt possible to recall  the payment. So, whilst I fully understand that Mr M 
feels the payment  shouldve  been stopped, this wasnt  possible at this point. And there 
wasnt anything further Nationwide could do to stop the payment leaving Mr Ms account.  
My final decision
Ref: DRN03438543For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0343854