K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a buy-to-let (BTL) leasehold  property that Mrs E and Mr G owned  
subject to a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. The property was sold in possession 
after arrears  accrued, and the bank is now looking for repayment proposals  from both parties  
for the resulting shortfall. Mrs E and Mr G believe this is unfair.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published.
Mrs E and Mr G took the mortgage out together,  at a time when they were married, but their 
relationship ended several  years ago. In 2013,  Mrs E expressed  a desire to be removed  
from the mortgage, but that didnt happen; she remained  a joint borrower  with Mr G. By now 
they lived at separate addressees, and as I understand it, contact between them was 
minimal. Meanwhile, Barclays sole contact address for them  was Mr Gs.
During 2016, the mortgage fell into arrears  and Barclays,  not satisfied with the response  it 
received from Mr G to the worsening situation,  appointed  a Law of Property  Act (LPA) 
Receiver which Ill call T, to manage the property. Ts assessment was that the situation 
wasnt viable. Although the existing tenant was paying rent to a letting agency, the mortgage 
arrears were  still growing,  and T didnt consider that Mr G had enough  income to cover the 
monthly payments.
When the existing  tenancy ended in October 2016, it wasnt renewed and the tenants  moved  
out. T took vacant  possession of the property and returned it to Barclays control.  Barclays  
put the property  up for sale; when it didnt sell on the open market, the bank put it into 
auction where it sold for just over £53,000. After all costs had been taken into account, the 
net proceeds didnt  cover  the mortgage balance in full. The resulting shortfall was about 
£44,000 and Barclays has asked for repayment proposals from Mrs E as well as Mr G. 
Mrs E made a complaint to us on her own in late 2017, after finding out all that had 
happened without  her prior knowledge.  One of our investigators considered in isolation the 
impact on Mrs E of Barclays only communicating with Mr G. She concluded that Barclays  
had been wrong  to exclude Mrs E and recommended  it pay her £500 compensation. As to 
the wider impact,  however,  she thought  unlikely that matters would have happened 
differently if Mrs E had known what was going on.
A second complaint (the one Im reviewing  here) was then set up to look into Barclays wider  
handling of the mortgage in arrears, its appointment of T, and the eventual sale of the 
property in possession.  That necessitated Mr G joining the complaint. Indeed, it transpired 
that he had made such a complaint himself  to Barclays already, and had received a final 
response from the bank  in August  2017.
Ref: DRN09843312This new complaint  was looked into by a different  investigator, and he wasnt persuaded 
Barclays had done anything wrong. He said, in summary, that appointing T was reasonable 
in the circumstances, as was Barclays  decision to take the property into possession and sell 
it. He wasnt persuaded  the sale price achieved was unduly  low.
Mrs E, in particular, is unhappy with those conclusions,  and would like the case  reviewed by 
an ombudsman. She resents  what she sees as the incorrect assumption,  arising from the 
first complaint, that her involvement wouldnt have made a positive difference  to the 
outcome. 
Shes also provided a lot of material to demonstrate the ongoing problems that existed with 
the freeholders  management company. Mrs E says this supports her view that Barclays  
should not have sold the property when it did, but should have held onto it, and rented it out 
for income  until the problems were fixed and the property capable  of being sold for a better  
price.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the underlying merits of the complaint  in detail, there  are some 
observations I need to make about the extent of my remit  to consider this complaint. Where,  
as here,  a lender decides to appoint an LPA Receiver, the LPA Receiver, once appointed 
does not act as agent for the lender, but for the borrower. 
What that means  in practical terms is that I am unable to consider any concerns Mrs E and 
Mr G may have  about the actions of T, because T is not covered by the jurisdictional scope of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. It seems  to me that much of the complaint is about  Ts 
management of the property, including  not renewing the tenancy and taking the property into 
possession. For the reasons  I have explained, I cannot consider the actions of T. 
Clearly, the mortgage  was in arrears, so Barclays was entitled to take legitimate steps to 
recover the money owed  to it. The steps  it took  firstly writing  to or telephoning  Mr G*, and 
then when it formed the view that a sustainable agreement could not be reached, appointing T 
as LPA Receiver   were legitimate commercial decisions that Barclays was entitled to take. 
Generally speaking, we will not interfere in the way a financial business exercises its 
commercial judgement, and Im not persuaded there are grounds  for me to do so here.
*The investigator didnt  revisit Mrs Es complaint about Barclays not keeping  her informed 
about the developing arrears, and I dont intend  to either. Im also limited in what  I can say, 
given that some of the evidence on the current complaint has been given in confidence. But 
Ill endorse a general point from the original view in that complaint; which  is that in a situation 
such as this, if both parties are involved,  they need  to be working in unison  towards  a 
common purpose in order  to make a difference. Even though  Mrs E and Mr G have both 
signed up to this complaint, my impression, even  now, is that they arent united and/or acting 
together.
Getting back to the underlying complaint, having  found that Barclays  didnt act unreasonably 
in appointing T  and having explained  why I cant consider what  T did during  its appointment 
 Ive next considered Barclays actions in disposing of the property in possession.
Ref: DRN09843313The starting point  here is Barclays  duty was to sell the property for the best price  (not the 
highest) achievable within a reasonable period of time. Thats a somewhat subjective  test, but 
in essence, a lender shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay 
a sale (thus adding  further to the borrowers  interest costs) to achieve an unrealistically  high 
price. 
Its about finding a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain  two independent  valuations, and then to market  the property with a view to 
achieving a selling price at, or close to, the valuations.  In this case, Im satisfied thats  what  
Barclays did. 
Even if, the eventual selling price didnt match the valuations, thats  not Barclays  fault.  
Ultimately, any property  is only worth  what someone  is willing to pay for it at any given time. 
I cant say one way or another whether there were possible shortcomings or factual 
inaccuracies in the actual  valuations Barclays obtained at the time. These were the work of 
surveying firms and/or estate agents, not Barclays itself.  
My remit  doesnt extend to questioning  the content of the reports, and I dont  find that 
Barclays had an obligation  to challenge or second  guess it either. These were the 
professional opinions of the parties Barclays was required  to consult. It was entitled  to rely on 
those opinions when  deciding how much to try and sell the property for. 
The other observation  Id make is regarding Mrs Es view that Barclays  should have kept 
hold of the property and let it out until the problems with the freeholders  management  
company had been resolved, thus paving  the way for the property to be sold for a higher 
price. 
I can see from the evidence shes provided that Mrs E puts a lot of store by that argument, 
but the simple  fact is that a lender in possession of a BTL property isnt expected to act as 
landlord by proxy. Barclays  duty was as Ive described it above, and all in all, I remain  
satisfied that it discharged  that duty to Mrs E and Mr G and didnt treat them  unfairly over the 
eventual sale price  achieved.
In Mrs E and Mr Gs case, the combined  addition of arrears, freeholder  charges and the 
costs of disposal to the mortgage balance meant that the selling price of the BTL property 
did not cover  the outstanding debt in its entirety.  A shortfall remained,  and it is this shortfall 
that Barclays is currently asking them to repay.
I appreciate that this is a very distressing  situation  for Mrs E and Mr G, but the debt is a 
legitimate one, and ultimately, Barclays is entitled  to look to them  for reasonable repayment  
proposals. That is what Barclays is doing currently. I cant  order  Mrs E and/or Mr G to 
engage with Barclays   together or separately- to agree  a payment arrangement,  but I do 
recommend that they do so. 
Provided Mrs E and Mr G do that, all I would then add is a reminder to Barclays that it has a 
duty to treat them fairly in any negotiations to reach a payment arrangement (or 
arrangements, if separate). In the event either Mrs E or Mr G considered Barclays   wasnt 
treating them fairly, they could make a fresh complaint to that effect, to the bank first and 
then to us if need  be.
Ref: DRN09843314my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr G 
both to accept  or reject  my decision before 15 March 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0984331