K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has acted  unfairly and unreasonably in 
refusing to pay her claim for hospital  treatment under a private medical  insurance  policy.  She 
wants matters put right.
background
Mrs A had a private health insurance  policy with BUPA. She received treatment in a hospital 
in 2015 and submitted a claim for payment to BUPA. Mrs A said that her claim was 
unreasonably rejected  as BUPA based  its decision on facts not within her medical reports.  
She said that her hospital stay was due to pneumonia.  
The situation  was complicated. Mrs A was first admitted  to a mental health hospital, but 
transferred to a general hospital  due to anaemia. From the medical evidence available  to 
me, its more likely than not that the anaemia was made severe due to gastric bleeding, as 
opposed to Mrs As inability to eat (which was partly why she was originally admitted to the 
first hospital), though Mrs A doesnt  accept this version of events and says her anaemia  was 
entirely due to her lack of eating.  Mrs A collapsed, was resuscitated  and admitted to the 
intensive care unit; she had sepsis,  a life-threatening condition. Mrs A claimed for the entire  
medical costs.
Mrs A complained to BUPA.  It said it initially rejected the claim as it didnt receive the 
documents it needed to consider it properly. BUPA said that it needed detailed  invoices,  a 
medical report and details of any prescribed medications, not estimates. It also said that it 
needed confirmation from a doctor that the treatment didnt relate to a pre-existing medical 
condition, alcohol abuse or the surgery undertaken in 2009. BUPA  explained that there were 
also questions about when Mrs A was able to have an oral diet and it needed  a medical 
report about why she was fed through  another method in October 2016.
BUPA said that while Mrs A did provide  further  evidence, it had to contact the hospital itself 
for more information and to get a full report.  It said that it was told the main cause of the 
sepsis was a hospital infection (combined with pneumonia), and it was a complication from 
the gastric bleeding  (which was excluded as it was caused by a gastric bypass). This meant 
Mrs As claim was excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy  as obesity and its 
consequences were  specifically excluded. It noted that Mrs A didnt get preauthorisation  of 
her treatment. BUPAs position was that effectively there  was a cascade of medical issues  
started by Mrs As anaemia due to gastric  bleeding  and everything  that followed was 
excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs A complained to us. The investigators view was that the evidence available  to him (and 
considered by BUPA)  indicated  that the admission was due to severe  anaemia  caused by 
the ulcers resulting from the 2009 gastric bypass. The infection that later arose was 
connected to the catheter used to feed her by tube,  which led to sepsis and a stay in 
intensive care  the investigator thought that this was a complication  from the gastric  
bypass. He wasnt persuaded that the evidence that Mrs A was first hospitalised due to 
major depression was the full picture as Mrs A was transferred from the hospital  dealing with 
her depression to another hospital due to her severe  anaemia,  caused by the ulcers from the 
bypass. While the investigator accepted that Mrs A developed other conditions, he said the 
general hospital admission itself was due to a complication from her gastric  bypass and 
therefore it was reasonable to refuse the claim.
Ref: DRN01553512Mrs A disagreed. She said that she wasnt taken to hospital due to her gastric  bypass, but 
because she was depressed and not eating. A doctor (who appeared possibly to be related 
to Mrs A) wrote to this service and said that they thought there was no relationship between 
the gastric bypass, and the depression and sepsis suffered. BUPA  reviewed this letter and 
said that the transfer to the hospital was due to the bleeding from the ulcers and the belief 
Mrs A had acute liver failure  due to cirrhosis. It said this was where the deterioration started, 
and the malnutrition  could be connected to the bypass as it was undertaken to reduce 
calorie intake. 
BUPA said the need to take Mrs A to intensive  care was due to the bleeding from the ulcers 
and everything stemmed  from there.  The investigator didnt change his view and preferred 
the evidence from the treating hospital, which  said Mrs A was admitted  due to the ulcers  
from her bypass. Mrs A said the anaemia  was caused by not eating, not the ulcers, and 
provided more evidence from the intensive care unit. BUPA noted that the additional 
evidence supported its view was the anaemia  was due to the gastric ulcers  and alcohol-
induced liver failure  (another  excluded condition) and undermined the view of Mrs As 
relative.
The investigator reviewed  the new evidence and didnt change  his view that BUPA  had 
acted fairly  and reasonably in rejecting Mrs As claim. The evidence didnt confirm when the 
ulcers developed, just when  they were identified,  and the investigator remained of the view 
that Mrs A was admitted due to her anaemia, and it was reasonable to think  this was caused 
due to the ulcers.  Mrs A still disagreed and said the anaemia was caused  by not eating.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Mrs A has a complex 
medical history, and the circumstances behind  her admission to hospital in November 2015  
are similarly  complex.  Her policy excludes any treatment directly  related to obesity, alcohol 
abuse and pre-existing  conditions, or complications arising from such  matters.
BUPA is fairly and reasonably  entitled  to require evidence for claims made under the policy,  
and to ask for the medical opinion of the treating doctors. The terms and conditions of the 
policy makes it clear  invoices are required,  as is information from the treating doctors; further 
information can also be required under the policy. Its also fair and reasonable for B to ask a 
health professional to review that evidence  it has received in order  to form a view about any 
claims made. This is what happened  in Mrs As case. 
The evidence available to me shows that Mrs A underwent gastric band surgery in 2009 
(which the medical  evidence suggests  most likely  led to the ulcers),  and had a history of 
alcohol abuse and having to be fed from a tube (which is likely to be linked to the gastric 
band surgery). The terms and conditions of the policy exclude claims related to pre-existing 
medical conditions,  alcohol abuse  and pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN01553513The medical evidence  available to BUPA reasonably supports its conclusion that the severe  
anaemia was connected  to the ulcers, which in turn was connected  to the excluded 2009 
surgery. Even the most recent  medical  evidence supplied by Mrs A from a professor in the 
relevant medical  team says she was admitted into the general hospital due to 
decompensated cirrhosis with anaemia. The fact that the ulcers  werent spotted until later 
doesnt mean that the anaemia  wasnt caused  by them;  its very likely that the ulcers  were in 
existence before their discovery as they had time to affect Mrs As excretions.  I think the 
evidence shows its likely  that the ulcers did cause the anaemia.
But Mrs A was admitted  to the intensive care unit due to her sepsis. So the first step is for 
me to consider what is most likely to have  caused the sepsis,  based  on the available medical 
evidence.
what is most likely  to have caused  Mrs As sepsis?
The evidence isnt definitive in this case, but it suggests that Mrs As sepsis wasnt caused 
by gastric bleeding or anaemia  sepsis is more  commonly understood to be a response to 
an infection. Mrs A did have pneumonia, and BUPA in a response to my further  questions  
accepted that it was more likely  than not that the sepsis was caused  by the pneumonia. 
Theres no evidence supporting the view that there  was a hospital-acquired infection;  the 
pneumonia pre-dates the tube feeding (and the tubes  were tested to exclude them as a 
possible cause of the sepsis, which is standard procedure). Mrs A was fed by tube as she 
wasnt eating enough, but this wasnt due to obesity or gastric bypass; she was severely  
depressed (sufficiently  so she was originally admitted to a mental health hospital). Theres  
no evidence that the gastric  bypass was preventing her from eating enough.
BUPA says anything that happens once  Mrs A was admitted for an excluded reason (and 
there appears to be two  obesity and alcohol abuse)  isnt covered by the policy. I dont think 
this is a fair or reasonable reading  of the policy. If the sepsis was caused by an excluded 
condition, then BUPA is fair and reasonable to exclude it. But if the sepsis  wouldve 
happened anyway,  regardless of the exclusions,  that wouldnt necessarily be the case. 
The fact that Mrs A was being treated for an excluded condition  doesnt mean she isnt 
covered for a condition covered by the policy  which arises at the same time but isnt 
connected. 
This leads  to the next issue for me to decide  which is whether the pneumonia caused or 
worsened by an excluded condition.  
was Mrs As pneumonia  caused or worsened by an excluded condition?  
BUPA says that Mrs As physical health  was undermined by the excluded conditions  and this 
led to an increased  risk of infection (which developed into sepsis). It has supplied comments  
from a doctor about this topic.
It isnt uncommon  for an individual with a weaker state of health  (physical  or mental)  is more 
likely to become ill and catch infections;  their immune  system  is impaired.  Such infections 
can be worse  than would otherwise  be the case. The evidence available  to me shows  that 
Mrs As health was not strong due to several excluded conditions.  
Ref: DRN01553514I think BUPA is fair and reasonable to say there was a clinical cascade; the pneumonia and 
sepsis was connected  to the excluded  conditions based on the medical evidence available  
(including from Mrs A). This means  that in this case I think its fair and reasonable for the 
claim to be rejected as I think its most likely that there was a link between  the excluded 
conditions and the conditions Mrs A was being treated for in hospital. It follows  that I dont 
think it is unreasonable for BUPA to conclude that this treatment  was excluded in the 
circumstances of this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 
22 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0155351