K820x#14complaint
Mrs R through her representative Mrs A complains that Aviva Insurance  Limited acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with her home  emergency  claim. She wants  
compensation for delay and being without water for two days, and for Aviva to consider  what 
it shouldve done  to help her, such as reimbursing  her more promptly.
background
Mrs R had a home insurance policy with Aviva,  which didnt cover her for repair  work but 
covered her for the costs  of tracing and accessing the pipes to repair  the leak, and for 
damage caused by the escape of water.  Her property had several  leaks  under her kitchen 
and dining room floor due to corroded pipes. It took two days for the repair  work to be 
completed (using two engineers), and new flooring was required. Mrs R said that Aviva 
refused to help her when she called to make  a claim. 
Mrs R complained to Aviva. It said Mrs R initially told it that there wasnt any water damage,  
but when its surveyor  contacted her to arrange  an inspection,  Mrs R said she was dealing 
with the matter herself, including  damage. It was willing to reimburse the costs for the 
damage caused by water  if Mrs R sent evidence of the damage and the costs. Aviva  thought  
that it had acted fairly and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs R complained to us. The investigators view was that Aviva wasnt at fault. The initial 
claim by Mrs R said that no damage had been caused by the water  itself (Mrs R said that the 
leak was discovered  due to a lack of hot water), and the floor was damaged in order to 
access the leak. The investigator noted that the wording of the policy said that the costs of 
tracing and accessing  the leak were only covered under the policy  if the building was 
damaged due to the water  leak. 
But there wasnt sufficient  evidence that Mrs Rs kitchen was damaged  due to the water; she 
told Aviva  there was no water damage four times in the first call. The investigator thought  it 
was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim, and to take no action after its offer to 
send a surveyor was rejected.  She also thought that it was fair and reasonable for Aviva  to 
say it would consider  paying Mrs Rs costs  if she provided evidence  of water damage  and 
the costs connected to it. Mrs R hadnt yet done  so the complaint wasnt upheld.
Mrs A disagreed. She said that Aviva  had provided poor customer service and should  
contact the plumber and flooring contractors involved  to get evidence. The investigator  said 
that it wasnt for the insurer  to get evidence  to prove  a consumers claim and it was 
reasonable for it to seek evidence of water  damage. Mrs A was adamant that there was 
water damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The relevant rules  and industry  guidelines 
say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN08237052Ive listened to the initial call between Mrs R and Aviva  she repeatedly  said that there was 
no damage caused by the escape  of water,  and the leak was only noticed  due to the lack of 
hot water. Mrs R didnt  contact Aviva until after the leak was found and repaired. Aviva 
rejected the claim  as no damage was caused  by the escape of water. The policy says that 
only damage caused by the escape  of water is covered; the same applies to the costs  of 
making good, which  is only covered if there  was water damage.  Mrs R hasnt provided 
sufficient evidence that there is any damage  due to the escape  of water, so it was fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to reject this part of her claim. The photos provided dont show water  
damage  they show the repair work.
I then considered the part of the policy that deals with the costs of tracing and accessing  the 
leak. The wording of the policy here is very precise  these  costs  are only covered by the 
policy if the building suffers water damage. A fitted kitchen is often viewed as part of the 
building, but theres  insufficient evidence of water  damage.  Mrs R has yet to provide it to 
Aviva. But its said if she does, it will cover  these costs. It is for Mrs R to supply the evidence  
as she is making the claim, not Aviva. I think this position is fair and reasonable and is 
consistent with the wording of the policy, the terms of which  Mrs R accepted.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject  my decision before 
12 September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0823705