K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide  Building Society  cancelled the overdraft facility on his 
account.
background
Mr D has a student account with Nationwide which had an agreed overdraft limit in place 
from 2016. In March 2018, Nationwide wrote to him saying that they would be withdrawing  
the overdraft facility from a specified  date in April 2018. Their  letter  explained that Mr D 
would need to repay the overdraft by that date and asked  him to contact them if he wasnt  
going to be able to do this. Mr D wasnt able to repay the overdraft before the facility was 
withdrawn so, at that point, his account went into an unauthorised  overdraft. 
Mr D wanted to know why the agreed overdraft had been cancelled.  He contacted 
Nationwide several  times,  including visiting a branch, but he says they didnt tell him the 
reason. He was also unhappy that Nationwide were  reporting on the account to the credit  
reference agencies.  He says the situation  has had a negative  effect  on his credit  file. 
Mr D complained to Nationwide who said that their letter of March 2018  explained  that they 
were withdrawing the overdraft facility because of adverse  information  on Mr Ds credit file. 
They also explained that his account hadnt  been credited with any funds since  2017 and 
that they couldnt continue  to offer an overdraft which may be unaffordable for Mr D. They  
said they had acted in line with their terms and conditions and that they were  obliged to 
report accurate information about the account to the credit  reference agencies. So they 
didnt think they had done anything  wrong.
But, although their letter had explained the reason why the overdraft was being removed, 
Nationwide acknowledged  that their staff hadnt  explained it to Mr D when he spoke  to them  
afterwards. They apologised for this and offered Mr D compensation of £25. 
Mr D wasnt happy with that so he brought his complaint to this service. He says its unfair 
that Nationwide cancelled the overdraft  and that £25 isnt enough to reflect the amount of 
time hes spent dealing with the situation,  including obtaining information from his university. 
He says he didnt  see Nationwides letter in March 2018 because he was in hospital.  
He says that, as soon  as he became aware  of it, he set up a monthly repayment.
 
Our adjudicator looked into it and thought that Nationwide had acted fairly. But Mr D didnt 
agree and asked  for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When opening his account, Mr D agreed to be bound by Nationwides terms and conditions. 
They say that overdrafts are repayable on demand and that Nationwide may ask Mr D to 
repay or reduce his arranged  overdraft  at any time. The terms give examples of when 
Nationwide might ask a customer to do this. These  include the situation where a customer is 
behind on payments on other credit,  whether held with Nationwide or elsewhere.
Ref: DRN02654352Ive also seen a copy of the letter which Nationwide sent to Mr D in October 2016 when the 
overdraft was set up. It sets out a summary of the overdraft terms, which  say:
Your overdraft limit can be reduced  or withdrawn by us at any time and all overdrafts are 
repayable on demand. This means  that we can, at any time, withdraw your overdraft or 
reduce the overdraft limit and ask you to repay  the overdrawn amount immediately. Well aim 
to give you at least 14 days  notice  before  reducing  or withdrawing your overdraft or 
demanding repayment.
So Im satisfied that Nationwide were entitled to withdraw the overdraft facility and ask Mr D 
to repay  it. Im also satisfied that they gave him enough notice.
Nationwides letter of March 2018 said that they didnt think  an arranged overdraft was 
suitable for Mr D at that time. They said they had carried out checks  to see how he managed  
his money, not just his Nationwide account but also elsewhere. As a result  of those checks, 
they said they couldnt offer him the overdraft any more.
The terms and conditions  of the account require Mr D to pay in at least £1,500  in each year 
of study. If he doesnt, Nationwide  can remove the overdraft. I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr D made the required payments into the account. The information Ive seen  shows 
that the account was continually overdrawn at around the overdraft limit, from the time the 
overdraft was agreed to the time the facility was withdrawn. So I think  it was fair for 
Nationwide to withdraw the overdraft because Mr D wasnt  complying with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And I think it was reasonable  for them to conclude  that the 
overdraft might not have  been affordable for Mr D.
Mr D says he took a gap year during his university course. But Nationwide say they werent  
aware of this. The terms and conditions of Mr Ds account require  him to tell them about any 
change like this and provide them with evidence if they ask for it. When  Mr D went into a 
branch to query why the overdraft had been  withdrawn,  Nationwide  say they asked him to 
provide up to date information about  his university  course, for example confirmation  that he 
was still enrolled  on it. They say that, although  Mr D provided some  information, it wasnt  
from the university and didnt confirm his course  status. Based on the information Ive seen, I 
dont think Nationwide  were wrong to withdraw the overdraft  facility here.
When the agreed overdraft facility  was withdrawn, the outstanding balance  became  an 
unauthorised overdraft. Nationwide have a duty to report  accurate information  about Mr Ds 
account to the credit  reference agencies. At that point, it was correct  for the account to be 
reported as being in arrears. I havent seen anything which makes me think Nationwide have 
recorded incorrect information about  Mr Ds account. And they sent him several  letters 
explaining that, if the overdraft wasnt repaid, it could  have a negative effect on his credit file. 
So Im satisfied that Nationwide warned Mr D of the potential  consequences.
From June 2018, Mr D has been  making small monthly repayments. Nationwide say these 
are manual  payments and have not been  set up as a formal arrangement.  From the 
statements Ive seen,  Im satisfied thats  the case.
Ive considered the fact that Mr D was in hospital  at the time Nationwide wrote to him about 
withdrawing the overdraft  facility. Nationwide say they werent  aware of this at the time. But, 
even if they had known of Mr Ds situation,  they say it wouldnt have changed  their decision. 
Thats because they say his financial position at the time meant it wasnt appropriate for the 
overdraft to remain in place and that, whilst  they sympathise with his situation,  the fact that 
Ref: DRN02654353he was in hospital didnt change that. I think thats a reasonable explanation. I havent  seen  
anything which indicates that Mr D would have been  able to do anything  differently (for 
example make significant payments into the account) even if he hadnt  been in hospital.  So I 
think the overdraft  would  have been removed anyway.
In conclusion, I think Nationwide  have acted fairly here. And I think  the compensation of £25 
which they have  already  offered to Mr D is reasonable. So Im not going  to ask them to do 
any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0265435