K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  declined their buildings  
insurance claim for storm damage.
Reference to AXA includes their agents.
Background
Mr and Mrs O say that on 2 March 2018  they noticed that their conservatory roof panel was 
damaged due to bad weather, so they made a claim under their home insurance policy. 
AXAs agents inspected  the property. They declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs O complained  about the outcome  of the claim. AXA said there was no evidence 
of any damage,  which could  be attributed  to a single identifiable insured event. They said the 
report noted that the roof was in a very poor condition. The timber rafts were  all heavily 
rotten. The roof had also been  leaking in several areas for a long time, as had the adjacent  
felt roof, of which this roof is fixed too. They say they reviewed  the report and photographs, 
along with the weather conditions in Mr and Mrs Os area around the date of the damage 
being noticed and declined his claim.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with this so they brought  their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that AXA had fairly 
declined the claim  because she didnt think a storm was the likely cause of the damage.  
Mr and Mrs O disagreed  with the investigator. They provided articles from newspaper 
showing severe weather  around the time and he got a report from another  company.  They  
say that they couldnt see any visible wood rot in the rafters of the existing roof structure.  
They also said they wouldnt  be able to do the repairs as they dont work with wooden  parts.  
When our investigator called this company she was told they didnt  access the roof therefore  
they could only make an opinion based  on what they saw from the ground. Based on all the 
new evidence our investigator was still of the opinion AXA didnt act unreasonably when 
declining Mr and Mrs Os claim.  
Mr and Mrs O disagreed,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The first question that needs to be answered in this type of complaint is whether or not there
was a storm at the relevant time. Mr and Mrs Os policy doesnt define the word storm 
which isnt unusual. This service takes  the view that a storm generally involves violent winds, 
usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
Ive looked at the weather  records for Mr and Mrs Os local area and I did see that 
approximately two weeks before 2 March  2018,  the date the roof panel  had blown off, there  
were peak wind gusts of 51 mph with some minor rain fall. I can also see the depth of the 
snow was reported  at one centimetre on 1 March 2018. The following day on 2 March 2018, 
there was a five centimetre increase  in the depth of snow and it was recorded  at six 
centimetres. Even though  there were  no violent  winds during those few days prior to 
Ref: DRN075483022 March 2018, on certain occasions, although  very rare, we might  say there was a storm in 
the absence of violent winds if there was rain, hail or snowfall of exceptional or unusual  
intensity. Taking all of the above into consideration, I think  most likely there were storm 
conditions around  the time of damage. But even if there  was a storm, it would still have to be 
the main/dominant cause of the damage. 
There are two reports; one from AXA and one from Mr and Mrs O. The report from AXAs 
indicates the roof is in very poor condition;  as a result of heavy wear and tear and faulty 
workmanship. The timber rafters around  the roof are all heavily rotten and damp. The report  
also states they were  unable to re-secure the panel as there was no suitable area of timber 
to screw into. The report provided by Mr and Mrs O says there is no visible  wood rot in the 
rafters of the existing  roof structure.  It goes on to say the roof could be repaired but they 
couldnt do the repair work as they dont  work  with wooden parts. 
Having carefully considered both reports, I think the one from AXA is the most persuasive  on 
this issue. I say this because the company  that provided Mr and Mrs O with the report only 
examined the structure from the ground  vs AXAs agents examined  it from the ground  and 
from the top. Ive also seen the pictures  taken by AXAs  agent  and from these  I can see 
there is a significant  amount of rot on the timber frames of the conservatory. The implication 
of this is that the real cause of the damage  wasnt  the storm, but the wear  and tear and rot. 
So based  on this I think most likely the damage  was already there and the storm simply 
highlighted an existing  problem.
Whilst I realise that my decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs O, I dont think 
AXA acted  unreasonably in relying  on their agents report and in declining Mr and Mrs Os 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0754830