K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 to protect a mortgage.  Mr and Mrs S
have said they were mis-sold the policy by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS).
Background
In my provisional decision sent in November 2020 I explained  why I didnt think this
complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
YBS had to make  Mr and Mrs S aware the PPI was optional and gain their consent before
adding the policy to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say they felt the policy was mandatory. 
The
PPI was taken a long time ago and there is limited information available from the time. I dont
think this is unusual considering businesses arent required to keep this type of information
indefinitely.
Whilst I cant be certain about what was said at the time YBS sold the policy to Mr and
Mrs S, I dont  have enough  to say YBS didnt make it clear the PPI optional,  or that Mr and
Mrs S didnt choose to have it.
Mr and Mrs S say they were sent information about the policy  shortly  after they completed
their mortgage application  and the paperwork stated the society  strongly recommends that
you affect this policy I can see why the use of the word recommend may make Mr and
Mrs S feel that YBS recommended they take the policy. But I think this wording is part of
YBSs standard letter template and as the information was in the form of a letter, I dont think
YBS made a personal recommendation about the policy.
As I dont think YBS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S it didnt have to check if it was
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs S got the information they needed to
decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the PPI knowing the other  means
they had of making their repayments  which included  Mr Ss sick pay, and their savings. But
the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ss sick pay and for longer. It would also have
helped protect their savings to be used towards other  essential  expenses.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that Mrs S wasnt working at the time the policy  was taken out.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld as Mrs S didnt meet the eligibility
criteria.
YBS said there is no evidence to show Mrs S was covered by the policy  and although letters
were addressed to Mr and Mrs S around the policy this was usual practice  even when the
policy would only cover one party.
I have thought about what both Mr and Mrs S and YBS have said about  this and I dont think
it would  be unusual for details of the policy to be sent, addressed to both mortgage
applicants, even when  it only covered  one of them. Without further evidence that the policy
did cover  Mrs S I dont have enough to say the policy was mis-sold.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
Ref: DRN06219172affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful
for Mr and Mrs S if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So, I
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr S off taking out the cover.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and whether YBS
treated them  unfairly.
YBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what they
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how YBS has been working this out and based on
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission  was less than half the
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission  
so I dont think YBS treated them unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr and Mrs S
back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
I gave Mr and Mrs S, and YBS time to respond  to my provisional decision, but no further
information was provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as neither side responded with
anything further  for me to consider I see no reason to come  to a different  decision to that
explained above.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2021.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0621917