K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the amount  Amtrust Europe Limited offered to pay him when his 
caravan was written  off in an accident  under his caravan policy.
background
Mr H was involved in a road traffic accident on a roundabout and his caravan  was damaged.  
He made  a claim to Amtrust who found  his caravan was very unique and therefore not listed  
on the usual trade guides. 
It instructed  an engineer  to assess the damage and value Mr Hs caravan, which he said 
was worth from £5,000  to £5,500 so it offered  Mr H £5,500.
Mr H was unhappy with this as he had some  work  and fixed new parts  to his caravan, which 
he felt wasnt included.  He wanted  a copy of the engineers report, which  Amtrust said it 
wouldnt give, as it wasnt part of its policy to do so. 
Mr H also thought he was paying for two policies as he found  another  one, but Amtrust 
confirmed that the other one wasnt one of its policies.
Amtrust also didnt investigate the accident or make enquiries concerning  liability,  which  
meant Mr H had to pay his excess.
As Mr H remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator  thought  
Amtrust should allow Mr H remove the parts he had recently fitted  to his caravan and pay Mr 
H the market value of £5,500. And because Amtrust  didnt investigate  the accident  at all, it 
should cover  the excess Mr H needed  to pay of £100 and pay compensation of £200.
Mr H accepted the investigators view. However  Amtrust  didnt. It didnt accept it should have 
investigated the accident so it didnt think it should cover the excess or pay compensation. It 
did agree  Mr H could  keep the parts  and it would pay the market  value of £5,500.
On this basis, Mr Hs complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
As Mr H and Amtrust  agree the market value of £5.500 on the basis  Mr H can keep the parts 
he had recently fitted, I wont  concern myself in this decision  with this. Further its clear 
Amtrust only provided one policy to Mr H.
Therefore, the remaining  issue  concerns the fact that Amtrust took the decision not to 
investigate the accident at all. As noted  by Amtrust this service  doesnt decide who is 
responsible for causing an accident, as thats a matter for the courts. 
But because accidents and consequent  claims  can affect policyholders both as regards their 
insurance record and the payment of an excess, I would expect Amtrust to have made at 
least some  enquiries of the other  driver to establish  the circumstances of the accident  before 
Ref: DRN03590842making a decision  not to pursue that other driver. I appreciate its a possibility that because 
the accident happened on a roundabout, the outcome  might  be a 50/50 split on liability  but I 
dont consider making no coherent  enquiries into the circumstances of the accident to be 
reasonable.
I also appreciate the policy terms gives Amtrust the right to make  this decision, but I think it 
needs to undertake this responsibility reasonable, which  means making enquiries at least.
So I consider that has unfairly prejudiced Mr H. Therefore, I consider its fair and reasonable 
it covers the excess Mr H needs to pay of £100. 
I also consider its fair to compensate  Mr H for the distress and inconvenience  it caused and 
I consider the investigators recommendation of £200 is reasonable in these circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Amtrust Europe Limited  to do the following:
Allow Mr H to keep  the agreed parts from his caravan.
Pay Mr H the agreed market value of £5,500. 
Cover the payment  of Mr Hs excess of £100.  
Pay Mr H the sum of £200  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0359084