K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
turned down his claim for damage  to his garden  wall under his all risks property insurance 
policy. 
background
Following the collapse  of the wall, Mr E made  a claim under his policy. 
NFU arranged for an inspection to take place. It thought the damage was due to wear and 
tear which had happened gradually, which is excluded under  the policy. It therefore turned 
down the claim. Unhappy  with this, Mr E brought  a complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  the evidence  
supported that the damage  was caused by wear  and tear, so she concluded it had been 
reasonable for NFU to turn down the claim. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators conclusions, so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr E holds an all-risks policy which means this covers all risks of damage, unless an 
exclusion applies. 
The policy excludes  wear  and tear, as well as any cause which happens gradually. 
NFUs inspector said a section of an eighteenth or nineteenth century retaining wall had 
collapsed suddenly, and a fissure in the land around  three  metres  from the wall also 
appeared. He said the concrete floor slab of the garage floor had cracked, and the timber  
structure of the garage (which had been  added between 14 and 16 years  ago) had dropped 
towards the area of collapse. 
The inspector said there  was no evidence of subsidence or landslip  affecting the foundations 
of the retaining  wall. He thought the wall had failed  as a result of gradual deterioration. He 
said retaining walls of that age are not designed to modern standards  and will deteriorate  
over time. He thought the deterioration was exacerbated by the lateral loadings  exerted upon 
the retaining wall structure.
Finally, the inspector thought the collapse of the wall had caused the concrete slab to 
fracture and the timber  garage structure  to move downwards. It was concluded the damage  
had happened  by wear and tear/gradual  deterioration. 
Although theres  limited  information, the opinion from the only inspection that has taken 
place supports that the damage occurred because of wear and tear which  happened  
gradually. That being the case, I think it was reasonable for NFU to rely upon  the opinion  of 
its inspector. Mr E hasnt  arranged for his own expert to inspect the wall, and so whilst I note 
he thinks the damage happened because  of a landslip, he hasnt provided any evidence to 
support that this happened and therefore  that NFUs  inspectors opinion  was wrong. 
Ref: DRN09745322Mr E says that if the wall did gradually deteriorate over time, he was unaware  of this. He 
says there are full-time  maintenance  staff that inspect his property in detail every week, and 
in 2018 a number of garden  walls on the estate  were extensively rebuilt or overhauled and 
repointed. He says there was no sign of any cracking or movement to the supporting  wall 
before it collapsed.
Mr E has referred to the usual approach of this service to gradual deterioration exclusions - 
which is that if the consumer couldnt  have been reasonably  aware of the damage 
happening gradually, we usually say a fair and reasonable outcome  is that the insurer  cant  
rely on the exclusion. 
However, this approach is only taken for standard policies which cover specific perils.  When  
someone holds an all-risks  policy, we have a slightly different approach. In these cases we 
usually say that the consumer shouldnt be worse off than someone with a standard  policy if 
they were both in the same situation. In other words, it would be unfair  for an insurer to turn 
down a claim using  the gradual damage  exclusion, if the damage would be covered under a 
standard perils  policy, and the consumer wasnt aware of the damage happening.
However, in Mr Es case, theres no evidence that a peril which  would usually be covered 
under a standard  insurance policy happened  here.  NFUs inspector didnt think subsidence 
or landslip had affected the walls  foundations, and theres no other  explanation offered for 
the damage  - other than wear and tear which has happened gradually.  Therefore Mr E isnt 
any worse off than someone with a standard policy in the same situation. Consequently, 
NFU is able to rely on the gradual deterioration  exclusion  in these circumstances. 
Overall, Im satisfied it was appropriate for NFU to turn down the claim for damage to the 
wall, based on the available evidence. 
When the wall collapsed,  Mr E explains this caused damage to the concrete slab sitting 
above the wall as this suffered substantial cracking,  and the timber garage structure that sits 
on the concrete  slab subsided.  
Mr E says that the damage to the concrete slab and garage  was caused by the collapse of 
the wall, rather than wear and tear or gradual  deterioration. He therefore  thinks  this ought  to 
be covered. 
I can understand Mr Es argument. However, given that the available evidence  supports that 
the wall collapsed because of wear and tear and gradual deterioration, this is the main cause 
of the damage. In other words,  if it hadnt been  for the wear and tear/gradual  deterioration of 
the wall, then the resulting damage to the concrete slab and garage wouldnt have 
happened. Consequently,  I think it would be reasonable  to say the wear and tear/gradual 
deterioration exclusions would  apply to all of the damage in this instance. 
Ref: DRN09745323my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0974532