K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the service he has received from the Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc.
background
Mr C raised a number of issues with RBS including the service  he received in branch, the 
lack of response to data requests and lack of response to complaints  he had made.
RBS responded  to Mr C in a number of final responses.  In  relation to the service aspect, it 
apologised if its standards fell below  that which were expected and in relation to a call which 
Mr C had requested a copy of, it said it couldnt trace the call and required more  information.
When Mr C brought the complaint to us, our investigator told him that apart from one 
particular complaint point, she wouldnt be able to consider the merits of his complaint. This 
was because he had brought  it to this service  outside of the time limits which were allowed.
With regards the one point she did consider  the issue of Mr Cs card being  blocked whilst 
he was abroad  she did not think  she could  ask RBS to do anymore.  
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator is right about the time limits  in which Mr C must bring his complaint to this 
service.  These can be found  in the DISP Rules which can be found on our website and are 
rules which govern this service.
What these rules say at DISP 2.8.2 is that this service cannot consider a complaint if the 
complainant (Mr C) refers  it to us more than six months after he is sent the final response 
letter in his complaint.
Mr C received two final responses to previous  complaints   one on 10th September  2019 and 
one on 16th October 2018.  Both of these  gave him referral rights to this service and stressed 
the time limit of six months.  But Mr Cs complaint to us was dated 8th May 2019   so more  
than six months from 16th October 2018.
However, the rules  go on to say that the complaint can still be considered if failure  to comply 
with the time limits  was as a result of exceptional  circumstances.   I have  not been told of any 
such circumstances in this case so we cannot  consider the merits of many of Mr Cs 
complaint points.
The only point I can consider is the issue of Mr Cs card being blocked   and thats because 
he brought this matter  to us in time. 
Having considered the same, I arrive at the same conclusion as the investigator and for very 
much the same reasons.
Ref: DRN05835632On two occasions, when RBSs systems detected unusual and possibly fraudulent activity, it 
blocked Mr Cs card and requested confirmation from him before allowing the payments to 
go through.  This may have caused  some inconvenience to Mr C  but RBSs  actions  were  
in line with the terms and conditions of the account  and also,  in line with what  this service  
would expect.
In those circumstances, I dont think RBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
upholding Mr Cs complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc does not need to take any further action  
in relation to Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0583563