K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they couldnt  take out a new fixed rate product on their interest 
only buy to let (BTL) mortgage with TSB Bank  plc. 
background
Mr and Mrs G had an interest only buy to let mortgage with TSB. It had a fixed  rate of 
interest which was due to end on 31 July 2018.  Mr and Mrs G contacted  TSB in May 2018 
about fixing the interest rate when  theirs ended, but it told them  that due to issues  with its IT 
systems, it wasnt  able to offer a new rate. 
Mr and Mrs G subsequently  chased  TSB for a new rate, and then raised a complaint. They 
hadnt heard  from TSB by September 2018  so they referred a complaint to our service. They  
said their mortgage had moved  onto a variable rate of interest  which meant monthly  
payments had gone up significantly, and theyd asked TSB to put them  on a lower  rate but it 
wouldnt. Mr and Mrs G said that TSB had told them  that new rates would  be available soon, 
and they were unhappy that TSB had said they could consider moving  their mortgage 
elsewhere in the meantime. 
In November 2018, Mr and Mrs G said that TSB had offered them a new fixed rate product, 
but the rate was not as good as another lender had offered. They  said theyd like to change  
lender but only if TSB refunded difference in their payments whilst theyd been  on a variable  
rate, for six months prior to that. Our investigator asked TSB if it would do that.
However, before TSB responded, Mr and Mrs G then said that theyd agreed a new interest 
rate with TSB, fixed for five years. They  said theyd  felt trapped  into staying with TSB 
because it had agreed to refund overpayments whilst theyd  been  on the variable rate if they 
kept the mortgage with it, but not if they moved elsewhere. Mr and Mrs G said that they 
wanted TSB to pay the difference on their mortgage  repayments between their new TSB rate 
and the one another lender had offered them over the next five years.
Our investigator didnt  agree that would be reasonable, but accepted that TSB had caused 
Mr and Mrs G a lot of unnecessary trouble and upset. She said that Mr and Mrs G had been 
free to move to another lender from the point their fixed rate had ended, so she didnt  think  
TSB should do any more.  She said that TSB should refund any overpayments  made whilst 
on the variable interest rate and pay £250 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with our investigator. They said that theyre  now in a worse position 
than they otherwise wouldve been because they were  denied the opportunity  to see what  
rates TSB had to offer and compare those  to other lenders. Had they known  TSBs  
subsequent rate was not as good  as an alternative  lender, they would have changed lender, 
and that couldve  taken some time. They also didnt think that TSB had treated them fairly by 
not reducing the interest rate whilst waiting for a new rate, and didnt  think the compensation 
TSB had offered  was fair taking into account  the trouble and upset they had been caused by 
its handling of the situation.  
TSB subsequently  wrote  to Mr and Mrs G. It apologised for the delay and offered to pay 
them the difference between the payments theyd made, and the payments they wouldve 
made on the lowest rate of interest available to its customers at the time,  for the period they 
were on a variable rate of interest.  It paid them this amount, 8% simple interest on that sum, 
Ref: DRN01076732as well as £500  compensation  made up of £250  compensation  for each account  holder - 
and £50 for associated  costs.  
Our investigator thought this was fair, but Mr and Mrs G didnt agree for the same reasons 
theyd explained  previously. So the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its understandable  that Mr and Mrs G are frustrated that they paid more  than they needed to 
towards their mortgage, between July and December 2018. TSB accepts that it wasnt able 
to offer them a new rate, and its refunded Mr and Mrs G the difference between what they 
paid and what they wouldve paid on the lowest  TSB rate available  at the time, as well as 8% 
simple interest per year on that sum. Im satisfied that this puts Mr and Mrs G back  in the 
position they otherwise wouldve been  in (if not better) for that period of time.  I think  this is 
fair in terms of putting things right for that period.
However, I know that Mr and Mrs G believe that the way TSB handled things means that 
their mortgage is now being  charged  a higher rate of interest than it otherwise wouldve 
been. They  also say that the compensation TSB has offered - £500 plus £50 for costs  isnt 
sufficient given the extent of the trouble and upset they were caused.
Mr and Mrs Gs fixed rate ended 31 July 2018, but records show  that they contacted TSB 
about a new rate  and were made aware  of its inability to offer a new rate  in May 2018.  
Records also show that Mr and Mrs G continued  to chase  the matter  with TSB on a monthly 
basis, and were told by TSB,  in August 2018,  that it didnt have a definite  date as to when itd 
be able to offer them a new rate. Additionally, in Mr and Mrs Gs initial conversations with 
this service, they told us they were dissatisfied  that TSB had told them that they could 
consider moving  their mortgage elsewhere.  
From what  theyve said, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were  reasonably  aware that moving  
their mortgage to a different lender was an option  from the outset. Mr and Mrs G have 
suggested that they chose not do this because TSB told it that new rates would be available 
soon. However, I havent seen any evidence which shows that TSB set an expectation as to 
when new rates would be available to them. To the contrary, TSBs  records  suggest that it 
told them  could not tell them when new rates would be available, in August 2018. 
It wasnt until 13 November 2018  that Mr and Mrs G told us they were  considering taking a 
new product with another lender, but wanted  to know if TSB would  refund  the difference  in 
their payments. Around a week later Mr and Mrs G told us theyd taken a new rate with TSB,  
but were unhappy  they couldve secured a better  rate elsewhere  if TSB had agreed to cover  
their overpayments whilst theyd been on a variable rate. However, I wouldnt have expected 
TSB to do this, and Ill explain  why. 
From what  theyve said, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were  reasonably  aware that they 
couldve moved their mortgage  elsewhere,  at the point  their fixed  rate product with TSB 
ended. Im also satisfied,  based on what Ive seen, that TSB didnt set an expectation as to 
when new rates would be available. As a result, I think  it was for Mr and Mrs G to decide,  at 
the point their fixed rate ended, whether or not to wait for new TSB rates to become 
available, or move their mortgage elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN01076733Mr and Mrs G have said that moving their mortgage  wouldve taken some  time, and its 
possible that even  if theyd chosen to do that as soon as they were aware TSB couldnt offer 
a new rate, they may still have  spent some time on TSBs variable rate. If that had been  the 
case, I think it wouldve  been reasonable to ask TSB to refund overpayments if they moved 
to a different  lender. But it wasnt until around  six months after theyd found out that TSB 
couldnt give them a new rate, that Mr and Mrs G told us theyd  enquired about a rate 
elsewhere, and wanted  TSB to refund their overpayments. I think its fair to say that Mr and 
Mrs G couldve  made  this decision much  earlier, and as a result  I dont  think  TSB shouldve  
offered to refund their overpayments if theyd waited six months to decide to move their 
mortgage. 
It follows that I also dont  think that TSB needs  to either change  Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage 
interest rate, or compensate them for a lower rate they say another lender had offered them,  
because they were free to move  to another lender at any point after their fixed  rate had 
ended. For the same  reason, I also dont  think that TSB were obligated to, or should  have, 
reduced Mr and Mrs Gs interest rate during the time they were  on a variable  rate.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs G say that the compensation TSB has offered is not sufficient taking into 
account what happened. However, it seems to me that they chose to wait to see what new 
rate TSB would offer them,  with the knowledge  that their payments would increase. I think 
that the £500 compensation  (made up of £250  per account holder) as well as £50 for costs, 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc has already done 
enough to put things  right, and I make no further award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0107673