K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains about the way U K Insurance Limited have handled a claim under her 
buildings insurance  policy.
background
Mrs K has a home  insurance  policy with UKI which covers,  amongst other things,  damage  to 
her house.
In 2013 Mrs K made a claim relating to an escape  of water in her property which had led to 
water collecting  in the underfloor void.
Mrs K has made two previous complaints to us about UKIs handling of her claim. These 
were resolved in January 2014 and April 2017.
Mrs K made another complaint to UKI in May 2018.
She said UKI hadnt provided documents shed  requested. And she said there  were  further  
repairs to her home still outstanding. This included  carpet cleaning  to which UKI had agreed.
Mrs K also said UKIs contractors had damaged her furniture  whilst the repairs were being  
carried out. UKI hadnt helped her move back into the home  despite  her suffering from a bad 
hand. And theyd  moved her back in before her kitchen could be used, so should pay for 
food bills.
She said her home had been damaged by contractors carrying  out the repair works. And the 
contractors had lied to her during the process.
Mrs K was also concerned about  the overall length  of time the repairs  had taken  more  than 
six years  at the time.  And felt she hadnt  been  adequately compensated for the trouble and 
upset shed suffered.  She also wanted  UKI to pay for extra  gas and electricity  costs shed 
incurred.
UKI admitted they hadnt handled Mrs Ks claim well. They offered £800 in compensation.
They also said theyd look at Mrs Ks gas and electricity bills if she would  provide  them.  And 
they paid for Mrs Ks carpets  to be cleaned.
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought UKI should complete some further work  at the property and reimburse Mrs K for 
a central heating flush shed had carried out.
He also said UKI should pay additional gas and electricity costs once they had evidence of 
those from Mrs K  as theyd said theyd  do. And he thought the compensation theyd offered 
to Mrs K was fair and reasonable.
Mrs K disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman. 
Because I came to different conclusions to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision,  
which gave both parties the chance to comment on my thinking before  I make this final 
decision.
Ref: DRN08211712my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complex case. There are one or two things  I need to be clear  about at the 
outset in terms of what Im considering in this decision.
Mrs K has made two previous complaints. And shes  received compensation so far in 
excess of £2,000  not including the £800 UKI have offered in response to this most  
recent complaint.
I have to ask Mrs K to understand  that I cant go back now and consider the whole 
period of time since the escape of water in 2013.
I can certainly look at whats happened  and what trouble and upset shes  suffered  
since the second complaint was resolved in April 2017.
I also have to point  out that the outcome of the second complaint was that an 
independent expert  report should be commissioned to identify what further works UKI 
needed to carry  out at Mrs Ks home.
When we resolved that complaint, we also said that once the independent  expert 
report was received, UKI should look again at the compensation offered to Mrs K up 
to that point and determine whether it was sufficient.
So, Im satisfied Im entitled  now to ask whether UKI have done that and/or, if so, 
whether theyve come to the right conclusion.
I do also have to ask Mrs K to understand that I can only consider, in this decision,  
any points she raised in her most recent complaint  to UKI. We work on the principle 
that a business should  have a chance to resolve a customers complaint before it 
comes to us.
So, I cant consider  here anything Mrs K has brought up with us whilst weve been 
looking into her case which she didnt raise  with UKI in May 2018. Shed have to 
complain to UKI about those matters first and give them a chance to resolve  things 
for her.
Ill now turn to the issues Mrs K did raise in her most recent complaint to UKI which  I 
can consider in this decision.
Non-provision of documents  Mrs K requested
I wont go into great detail  on this point. I understand Mrs K now has the documents 
in question. UKI posted them to her in response  to her request. I cant hold UKI 
responsible for any failure to deliver the documents by third parties.
Ref: DRN08211713Damage to furniture
Mrs K raised this issue in her previous complaints.  And weve already  dealt  with it for 
the most  part. We were  happy that UKI had done what  they needed to do to repair 
damage likely caused by their contractors.
Theres one additional  issue  which  has arisen  since we resolved the second 
complaint. This relates to a three-piece-suite in Mrs Ks home, which  was mouldy 
after Mrs K most recently returned home.
It seems  UKIs contractors decided not to remove this furniture from the home whilst 
the latest repairs were  being carried out, because it was too big. They  say they then 
protected it appropriately  during the period in which the repairs were  carried  out.
I dont accept this. The furniture was intentionally  left in the house and whether it was 
covered or not, it was mouldy when Mrs K returned. UKI should pay for repairs as 
and when Mrs K provides  them  with an invoice / receipt for the necessary work.
Carpet cleaning
I believe UKI have now paid for Mrs Ks carpets to be cleaned and this is no longer 
an issue.
Help with moving back  into the home
Im satisfied UKI provided any support required under Mrs Ks policy.  They moved  
Mrs Ks possessions  back into the house  and presumably left them  where Mrs K 
asked. Theyre not responsible if Mrs K had some unpacking to do or wished to re-
arrange her possessions.
As UKI also pointed out, Mrs K lives with her adult son who doesnt suffer  from any 
disability. It wasnt unreasonable for them to believe Mrs K didnt need any additional  
support with moving back into the house.
Use of the kitchen
Mrs K says she couldnt use her kitchen  when she moved back  in, so UKI should pay 
for prepared  food she had to buy.
In fact, I dont think theres any suggestion here that Mrs Ks kitchen wasnt 
functioning when  she moved back in. She says she couldnt use it because  there  
were contractors still in the house  carrying out work and coming in and out of the 
kitchen with materials etc.
I dont think that would have prevented Mrs K from using the kitchen to prepare 
meals. And I dont think UKI should pay for Mrs Ks meals in that period.
Damage to Mrs Ks home
Mrs K says UKIs contractors damaged  a uPVC windowsill when they were carrying 
out repairs.
Ref: DRN08211714I agree  with our investigators view on this  and neither  Mrs K not UKI disagreed 
when they responded to his view,  so I assume this isnt contentious.  UKI should  
assess the damage and if they conclude it was most likely caused by their 
contractors, they should  carry out or pay for the necessary repairs.
If they believe there was a different  cause,  they should provide evidence  to Mrs K to 
demonstrate that is the case.
UKI can only do that, however, if Mrs K allows them on to the property to inspect the 
damage. I understand she may have refused to allow them access  recently. If she 
wont allow  that, then I cant ask UKI to do any more.
Dishonesty in dealings with Mrs K 
Mrs K says she was lied to during the handling  of the claim. Given  that there are no 
witnesses to the alleged conversations  and no record   it would be difficult for me 
to conclude with any certainty whats happened.
I can say that this was, at times, a complex case,  with some (reasonable) uncertainty  
on UKIs behalf as to what the ultimate  cause of the damage was and how it might be 
addressed.
I can see how UKIs position may have changed as more  information came to light  
and again, I cant  say that was unreasonable. And I can see how misunderstandings 
may have  arisen  around what UKI were intending to do when this was communicated 
to Mrs K.
On balance then,  I cant say UKI or their contractors intentionally misled Mrs K. And 
Im not going  to ask them to do anything more here to put things  right.
Delays
As I say, this was a complex case. It appears  there have been several unrelated  
escapes of water at Mrs Ks property since 2013. And in each case,  this has led to 
pooling of water in her under-floor void.
Its fair to say that, at times, there  has been  some uncertainty  about  the causes of the 
escapes of water  and indeed whether they were covered by Mr Ks insurance 
policy. Its to UKIs credit, in my view,  that where  there has been doubt theyve erred 
on the side of assuming  responsibility for the repairs.
Since April 2017, UKI had to wait for the outcome of the independent inspection 
before formulating  a complex schedule of works  to resolve  the remaining issues  at 
Mrs Ks home. And this has been  complicated  even more by further escapes of 
water.
In that context, I dont  think  UKI are wholly responsible for the current  repairs taking 
as long as they have.  Theyve admitted things could have been handled better  in 
terms of the claim handling. And theyve offered Mrs K £800  in compensation for her 
trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN08211715This has been a traumatic time for Mrs K. And I understand that shes  frustrated, 
annoyed and stressed by being out of her home for long periods  and by having 
some repairs  carried  out when shes been in the house.
But I cant hold UKI responsible for the various  escapes of water  and they were  
always going to cause Mrs K considerable inconvenience and anguish.
Taking everything into account,  I think UKIs  offer of £800 compensation for the 
delays and miscommunication since April 2017 is fair and reasonable. Ill come back 
to the question of compensation overall  below.
Outstanding repairs
An independent inspection report was commissioned in 2017, in line with our findings 
on Mrs Ks second complaint to us.
This looked at 25 different issues that were still of concern  to Mrs K after UKIs 
attempts to repair her property. It was Mrs K who set out those 25 areas of concern.
The independent inspectors found  that UKI should carry  out further repair works in 
relation to 18 of those  25 areas of concern.
When we looked  into this  after we received Mrs Ks current complaint  our 
investigator thought  UKI still had remaining work to do to:
fix the skirting in the kitchen;
fix a dripping tap;
re-install a door which  had been  hung  the wrong way round;
fix the wallpaper in the downstairs bedroom;
fix the overhead  box in the downstairs bedroom  wardrobe.
He also thought UKI should reimburse  Mrs K for a central heating flush shed had 
carried out. Their  contractors said theyd already done this but it seems  it hadnt been 
effective.
In response to our investigators view neither UKI nor Mrs K disagreed that this was 
the full list of what needed to be done to address the remainder of the 25 issues 
identified in the independent report and/or  any knock-on  damage  that had been 
caused as those issues were being  addressed.
Mrs K said she didnt  realise the independent report was supposed to cover all 
remaining issues. She thought they were only to address any remaining structural  
problems.
Im not entirely sure what Mrs K means  by this. But I am clear she had an opportunity 
to set down  before the independent inspection  any remaining problems with her 
property. Her list of remaining issues was then addressed by the independent 
inspection. The independent  report didnt address things like the compensation Mrs K 
should be offered   thats for me to do now. And it didnt address issues Mrs K has 
raised about her furniture.
Ref: DRN08211716That was never  the intention   and weve dealt with those matters as part of this 
complaint and/or the previous complaints (see above).
So, Im satisfied the independent  report can be taken to address  all issues relating to 
the repairs to Mrs Ks house  that were covered by her insurance policy  with UKI.
And, as I say above, neither party  objected  to the list of remaining repairs  set out by 
our investigator in his view. So, Im satisfied the list above is a comprehensive list of 
work remaining for UKI to do at the property.
UKI should now either carry  out those remaining works  if they havent already done 
so and assuming  Mrs K will allow them to enter the property  or, if she wont  allow 
access, provide  Mrs K with a cash settlement so she can get those works completed 
by her own contractors.
Review of previous compensation and gas and electric  bills
Part of our finding (in April 2017)  after investigating Mrs Ks second complaint was 
that UKI should  consider  whether the compensation theyd already provided to Mrs K 
was sufficient, bearing in mind the findings of the independent inspection.
For reasons which  will become clear, this is necessarily bound up with the issue  of 
Mrs Ks utility  bills. So, Ill address these two issues together.
The independent inspection found that UKI had more work to do in 18 of the 25 areas  
Mrs K had raised as on-going concerns. Most significantly, in my view, it found  that 
the repairs carried out by UKIs contractors left Mrs Ks home with vents to her 
underfloor void which were far larger than they needed to be to maintain air 
circulation etc.
The inspection report said that if vents  of that size were to be used, the underfloor 
void would  need  to be insulated to prevent the house from being  excessively cold. 
And it found that no insulation had been installed at Mrs Ks property.
Mrs K moved back into her home in October  2015. And later contacted UKI to say 
that she couldnt keep the house  warm. Eventually, Mrs K made  a complaint to UKI 
and then her second complaint to us.
In effect, taking everything into account, after October 2015 and until the time the 
most recent repairs were  carried  out, Mrs K was living in a home with 18 defects 
remaining from the damage caused  by the escapes  of water in 2013 and thereafter. 
Most significantly, she was living in a home  which couldnt be heated  effectively 
because of the way UKIs  contractors had carried out the repairs  installing 
unnecessarily large vents and no insulation.
As set out above, Mrs K received more than £2,000  in compensation from UKI 
following her first two complaints to us. UKI also paid some of her gas and electricity  
costs in response to her first complaint.
Ref: DRN08211717UKI have  offered £800 compensation in connection  with the issues  raised in this 
current complaint. Theyve  said this is for on-going delays and miscommunication 
even after the first two complaints and the fact that some repairs  were still 
outstanding after so much  time. As I say above,  I think £800 for those issues alone is 
fair and reasonable.
However, UKIs internal complaints-handling notes say the compensation is also for 
failing Mrs K on numerous of occasions looking at the number of previous 
complaints.
Its not entirely clear  to me whether UKI have done  what we asked in the outcome of 
Mrs Ks second complaint  and re-considered the compensation theyd already paid in 
light of the independent  inspection report.  But Im going to give them the benefit  of 
any doubt and assume  they did, given the entry  in their internal  notes  quoted above.
However, I dont see any evidence in the copy records we have  to show that UKI 
have understood   or taken into account  the extent to which the independent  
inspection report showed that Mrs K had been living in a poorly-repaired  house for a 
prolonged period of time (after October  2015).
Bearing that in mind, I dont think £800  is adequate compensation  for Mrs Ks trouble  
and upset in this case. Given that she lived for a significant amount of time in a 
house which required 18 further repairs  and which was incapable of being 
sufficiently heated  I think  £2,500 would be a more  fair and reasonable figure.
To be clear, I dont mean  to suggest that UKI should  pay Mrs K £2,500  in addition to 
the £800 already offered.  If theyve already paid Mrs K the £800, they should pay her 
a further £1,700.
In addition, UKI have  offered to consider paying  some of Mrs Ks gas and electricity 
bills if she can provide  them with evidence that these were  higher than her previous 
costs. I think thats fair and reasonable. I should say though, thats not compensation 
for trouble and upset  which Ive addressed above  its to cover Mrs Ks financial 
losses.
And to be clear, I think UKI should compare  Mrs Ks gas and electricity costs  before 
October 2015  at times  when  she was living in the house  to her costs between 
October 2015, when  she moved back in, and May 2018, when she made  this 
complaint to us.
UKI can reasonably  take into account inflation in gas and electricity costs  in the 
relevant period, but Im satisfied in principle that they should  pay Mrs K the difference 
between her costs prior to October  2015  and her costs between  October  2015  and 
May 2018. Mrs K was paying those additional  costs because she was trying  to keep 
her house  warm when it has excessive venting and no insulation.
In order to do that, of course, UKI will need evidence  from Mrs K to show what her 
gas and electricity costs were throughout the relevant period.
Ref: DRN08211718Effective and lasting  repairs
Wed expect that UKI, in dealing with the damage  at Mrs Ks home, would carry out 
effective and lasting  repairs.
There have been  a number of occasions  over the last few years  when Mrs Ks under-
floor void has been  flooded with water. And I know some of UKIs experts have at 
times raised  the possibility that there is an underlying cause for this.
UKI have  given me an assurance that they fully understand the reasons  for each of 
the escapes of water  at Mrs Ks property and that theres no reason to suspect there 
will be any further unexplained pooling of water in Mrs Ks under-floor void.
Im happy  to accept that, on the basis that UKI are taking into account  the views  of 
the various experts whove visited the property  on their behalf.
I want to make it clear though  although  this is not part of the decision I have to 
make now  that if there is any recurrence of these issues, wed expect  UKI to be 
absolutely certain  about  the cause before determining  what further repairs  should  be 
carried out.
And on that basis, I said UKI should  
carry out the remaining repairs to Mrs Ks home   as set out above  or provide Mrs K 
with a cash settlement  for those repairs;
pay for repairs to Mrs Ks three-piece-suite as and when she provides them with a 
suitable invoice  or receipt;
if Mrs K will allow  access, assess the damage  to Mrs Ks uPVC window and  if theres 
no evidence of a cause other than accidental damage by their contractors - repair it or 
pay for the cost of repairs;
if Mrs K provides the necessary information, assess and pay for the additional gas and 
electricity costs  Mrs K incurred between October  2015  and May 2018  and add 8% 
simple interest from the date Mrs K settled each  bill;
pay Mrs K £2,500 compensation for her trouble and upset (this includes  the £800  they 
already offered her).
the responses to my provisional  decision
UKIs response
UKI provided  a detailed  response to my provisional decision, for which I am grateful.
They say there has been a further  escape of water at Mrs Ks house. Theyve carried out 
further repairs and also taken the opportunity to carry out some of the snagging identified  as 
still outstanding  in my provisional decision. The kitchen skirting  and tap have now been 
repaired / replaced. 
Theyve also paid for a central heating flush,  which was on the list of outstanding issues  in 
my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN08211719There are still repairs  to be completed  from that list. But they intend  to re-install the door 
hung the wrong way round and fix the wallpaper and overhead wardrobe box in the 
downstairs bedroom.  Theyll also include  damage  to the uPVC  window.
They say they also always  intended  to replace the laminate flooring and wall paper in 
Mrs Ks dining room.  And theyll do so now, even  though that wasnt mentioned  in my 
provisional decision.
They may pay for Mrs K to get these  outstanding  repairs done rather than carry them  out 
themselves. And that seems reasonable to me if Mrs K agrees.
UKI also say theyve now paid Mrs K £380  in disturbance  allowance  due to the fact her 
kitchen has been  out of action during the repairs.
They say they werent aware of damage  to the three-piece suite. And they pointed  out 
previous surveyors reports had said the house  wasnt ventilated when laundry was drying  
which might  cause mould.
Theyve agreed with Mrs K that theyll pay her a further £200  (with 8% simple interest) to 
account for Mrs Ks additional gas and electricity costs during the period her house  had over-
ventilation and no insulation.
But they think the further £1700 I recommended  as compensation for Mrs K living  in a house 
with 18 defects  including  the over-ventilation  was too much.  They say most of the 
defects were minor, other than the ventilation issue. 
They say the expert  report was delayed because Mrs K took almost a month to decide  which  
one of three experts they offered (in line with the final decision in our previous complaint) 
was acceptable.  And the repairs - including the insulation   were delayed  because of further 
escapes of water. One of these was due primarily to Mrs K blocking her drain with wipes.
They also say that some of the time Mrs K was living  in the uninsulated house was in 
summer, when cold wouldnt have been an issue.
Mrs Ks response
Mrs K isnt clear about why I said Im considering her losses  and trouble and upset only up to 
May 2018.
She says other furniture  was left in the house  and damaged by the contractors  as well as 
the three-piece  suite. This includes an antique glass-fronted wall unit.
She says the issue with a lack of help moving  back in was due to the fact she couldnt 
unpack because  so much  work was still going on in the house.
She says the kitchen  was completely out-of-use  between April and June 2018 due to repairs 
going on in the kitchen  itself. So, she should  be compensated for extra expenditure because 
she couldnt prepare food at home.
She says the floors  still move in the downstairs rooms of her house  and this hasnt been 
addressed. And there are remaining issues with the coving and the wallpaper around the 
desk in the downstairs bedroom.
Ref: DRN082117110Shes also raised a new issue  about  the type of insulation used in the repairs. She says this 
isnt of the same standard as originally promised. And its still difficult to heat the house 
sufficiently when there are strong north-west winds. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive carefully considered  the 
comments provided by UKI and Mrs K in response  to my provisional decision.
I havent changed my mind about  what UKI need  to do to put things right for Mrs K. Ill 
explain why.
Points raised  by UKI
Its clear from UKIs response  that all of the outstanding repairs identified  originally in the 
independent surveyors  report  have been carried out or will be carried out (or paid for).
Theyve also accepted   and dealt with  the increased gas and electricity costs,  the central  
heating flush and the disturbance allowance for Mrs Ks non-use of the kitchen whilst repairs  
have been carried  out.
UKIs remaining issues are with the three-piece suite cleaning  costs and the level of 
compensation Im suggesting.
Ill deal with the three-piece suite first. It appears from all the evidence that this was left in 
the house when Mrs K was in alternative  accommodation rather than being put into storage. 
I believe this was because it was too big to easily move out of the property.
Mrs K says the damage occurred during that period. I have absolutely no reason to doubt 
that. The house was unoccupied. Its not unlikely  that it was colder and damper than it might  
have been had Mrs K been there.
UKI say the mould was likely due to Mrs K drying  laundry  without adequate ventilation.  But 
at the time the damage occurred, she wasnt living there  and wasnt drying laundry.
So, Im satisfied on balance the damage was caused whilst the repairs were  being carried  
out and Mrs K was away from the home.  And Im still satisfied UKI should  pay for the 
cleaning once Mrs K provides them  with a receipt or invoice.
As regards  the compensation, Im grateful to UKI for reminding me that some  of the period in 
question was summer. However,  I can assure them I had already taken that into account.
I also have to remind them of the outcome of the previous complaint. Our decision then (in 
April 2017) was that they should  re-consider  the compensation theyd already offered to 
Mrs K in light of the findings of the independent surveyors  report.
Ill be absolutely clear   before  that, UKI had not compensated Mrs K for the fact she was 
living in a house with significant over-ventilation and no insulation  and with 17 other  defects. 
They cant  have done because up until the independent report  was received, they didnt 
accept their previous  repairs werent  adequate.
Ref: DRN082117111The £800  compensation  already offered in response  to this complaint was for delays and 
failures in communication. If it was also intended to cover the re-consideration of previous 
compensation we recommended in our previous  decision  which is not entirely clear from 
UKIs records -  it appear to me it was wholly inadequate.
Mrs K lived in a house which it was impossible to heat from October 2015, when she moved  
back in after the previous  repairs were  completed, to February 2018, when she moved out to 
allow the repairs recommended  by the independent surveyor  to be carried  out.
That would have  been inconvenient, uncomfortable  and extremely  worrying  for around two 
and a half years. Even if that included two summers   and some minor delays caused  by 
Mrs K - Im not convinced that £800  compensation is enough.  And I bear in mind that some if 
not all of that £800 was compensation for later delays and failures in communication.
I accept that some of the other issues identified as outstanding in the independent report 
were cosmetic,  but they also included poorly fitted carpets and doors, poor plumbing causing 
bad smells and loose  taps.
And taking  all of that into account, I stand by my original  decision.  I think £1,700 more in 
compensation for Mrs Ks trouble and upset is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Points raised  by Mrs K
I have to ask Mrs K to understand  the way our process works  which is dictated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority dispute  resolution  (DISP) rules.  I cant  look at issues that 
havent already  been raised  with UKI. 
Mrs K complained to UKI in May 2018. By definition, she cant possibly have raised with 
them then anything which  has come  to light since then. So, Im only dealing  with the period 
up to May 2018.
I realise its difficult for Mrs K to recall precisely  now which issues came  up when, but Im 
sure shell understand  I cant  deal in this decision with any loss or trouble  and upset shes 
suffered after she made her complaint to UKI.
Similarly, I cant in this decision  consider the standard  of insulation which UKI have installed 
in Mrs Ks house. The first time weve become aware of this issue is in the response to my 
provisional decision. If Mrs K wants to raise that issue now, shell need to make  a complaint 
to UKI. If they cant resolve things to her satisfaction, she can then bring it to us as a new 
complaint.
Im afraid the same goes for the coving in Mrs Ks bedroom. She didnt raise  this as an issue  
when the independent  inspection was carried out. Nor has she mentioned  it in the 
complaints to UKI or to us. So, I cant look at it now.
For slightly different reasons, Im not going  to consider the damage to Mrs Ks wall unit in 
this decision. I believe  she raised that in her previous  complaints  to us  and weve dealt 
with it. I cant re-open  our previous decisions or second guess them  at this stage.
Ref: DRN082117112Mrs K also disagreed with me about the food expenses she thought UKI should cover. That 
appears to have been resolved as UKI have now paid her a disturbance allowance  in any 
case.
Im afraid I havent changed my mind  about the help Mrs K was  or was not  given when 
she moved back into the house. I dont think the contractors who moved  Mrs K had an 
obligation to place all her possessions exactly where she wanted them. As our investigator 
said, Mrs K lived with her adult son. So, I dont think its fair to say UKI should have made 
special arrangements to assist Mrs K in moving back  in. 
Mrs K says some of the floors in her downstairs rooms still move. I understand the kitchen 
floor has been replaced again after the latest  escape of water. UKI said they would deal with 
hall floor.  And the dining room floor is to be replaced. If these repairs  arent  satisfactory, 
Mrs K can raise  a new complaint with UKI.
The issue  with the living room floor  which Mrs K has variously  described  as moving or 
creaking- was addressed  in the independent  report. It found the degree of movement was 
to be expected with a wooden floor in a house like Mrs Ks. It said UKI had done nothing 
wrong in the way the previous repairs had been  carried out.
For the purposes of complete clarity, my final decision below assumes that, as they tell me, 
UKI have  already paid Mrs K: the agreed amount for her additional gas and electricity costs; 
the disturbance  allowance of £380;  the cost of the central heating  flush;  and the £800 
compensation theyd  previously offered.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited must:
carry out the remaining repairs to Mrs Ks home   as set out above  or provide Mrs K 
with a cash settlement  for those repairs;
pay for repairs to Mrs Ks three-piece-suite as and when she provides them with a 
suitable invoice  or receipt;
assess the damage to Mrs Ks uPVC window and repair  it or pay for the cost of repairs;
pay Mrs K £1,700 more (in addition to the £800  already  paid) in compensation for her 
trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0821171