K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains Elite Insurance Company Limited  hasnt  paid his claim on his alloy wheel 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr W put in a claim to repair damage to his alloy wheels. Elite accepted the claim and 
passed the details to a repairer  to repair the damage.  When Mr W didnt hear anything 
further he complained.  
Elites final response,  issued in August 2018, referred to an attachment  which  explained the 
reason for the delays. Mr W was unhappy  with the delays so he brought  his complaint to us. 
Elite said that because of a reinsurance arrangement affecting their assets, a restricted  
payments protocol had been  introduced. Because of this claims were unable  to be paid. 
Elite sent Mr W another e-mail at the end of October 2018 providing an update. The update 
explained the payment protocol had been lifted and they would now be working to clear the 
outstanding payments as quickly as they could. It also said updates could be found on Elites 
website and provided an e-mail address  for any questions. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ws complaint and recommended it was upheld.  He found  that 
Elite had confirmed Mr W met the policy terms and conditions for his claim. He also found 
that Mr W hadnt been given any specific updates or even told when the repair would be 
done. Mr W had also spent a lot of time contacting Elite and the business which  sold him the 
policy trying  to find out what was happening.  Because of this our investigator recommended 
Elite pay Mr W £100 for the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience caused  by the lack of 
communication during the claim.
Mr W responded to say he accepted our investigators findings and that Elite had booked in 
the repair date for his car. Elite responded and disagreed, they said because of the payment  
protocol they were  unable to issue refunds sooner and didnt agree to the £100 
compensation. They also said Mr W had been kept updated by their representative, but 
couldnt provide  the details of the updates. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Ws claim to repair his car has now been arranged,  and Mr W is happy with it, I wont 
go into that further. 
Elite disagreed with the £100  distress  and inconvenience recommended.  They said as the 
payment issue was across all polices and was outside of Elites  control,  there wasnt 
anything else they could do. In regards to the time taken to pay the claim Elites  website 
explains this was because  of an appointment of a liquidator to a third party insurer, who 
reinsures most of Elites  assets. Im therefore  satisfied the delay was outside  of Elites 
control, but I think they could have done  more to keep Mr W updated  during this time. 
Ref: DRN05844332I say this because  Mr W chased Elites representative several  times  to find out what was 
happening. When Elite let Mr W know about  the problem they didnt provide any time scales 
or let him know what other options  he may have. 
There appears to be some communication to Mr W after the final response received from 
Elite. Elite said this would have been from their representative and would have kept Mr W 
updated. From what Mr W said there were e-mails sent which  referred to attachments but no 
attachments were on the e-mails. This meant he had to spend time going  back asking for the 
information to be resent  on more  than one occasion. Elite has also been unable  to confirm  
what updates  were given or what was sent. So its not clear  what information  was given to 
Mr W during his claim.  
Around four months after the original  claim date Mr W was provided with an update which  
explained claims were starting to be paid. I can see the last updates  to Mr W were able to 
provide more information, but given the amount of time the payment  issue had been going 
on for Im satisfied Elite could have done more  to keep Mr W updated  earlier, given that hed 
chased things  a number of times. Because this wasnt  done  Mr W had to request for 
attachments to be re-sent and spent a lot of time trying to find out what was happening. 
Because of this Elite should pay Mr W £100 for the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience 
he suffered by not being kept updated.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint and require Elite Insurance 
Company limited to pay Mr W £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Elite Insurance Company  Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling them  Mr Ws 
accepted my final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this they should add 
interest to the compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision until the 
date they make payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Elite Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr W a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0584433