K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt settle another  drivers  claim against his 
motor insurance policy  in time and this led to a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against him. 
He wants compensation  for his resulting losses.
background
Mr M was involved in an accident with another driver in 2017.  He said Axa delayed paying  
the other drivers claim and this led to the CCJ being  notified and authorised  against  him. He 
said this had effects on his ability to gain credit and affected his credit record.  Axa agreed  
there had been  unnecessary delays in the settlement which  had led to the CCJ being in 
force for about a year.  It offered Mr M £1,500 in compensation for his trouble and upset. It 
also offered him £890.50 for a related mortgage  increase. 
But Mr M said this wasnt  enough for the impact on him. He said hed had to pay for credit 
referencing in the year the CCJ had been applied.  He said hed had to take time off work  to 
deal with the matter and delays in being able to complete home improvements cost £1,500. 
He also said that the matter  had caused  him and his family stress, embarrassment and 
anxiety. He wanted £3,000 compensation. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought Axas 
offer of compensation and to cover the mortgage  increase were fair and reasonable. But he 
also thought it should refund the costs of the credit referencing Mr M had paid for. 
But Axa replied that it didnt agree that it was responsible  for these  costs.  It asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision on the complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Axas file I can see there were errors  and delays  that led to the CCJ being on Mr Ms 
record for about nine months. Axa agreed  that this affected Mr Ms credit rating and led to an 
increase in his mortgage payments. I can understand  that Mr M would feel frustrated with the 
error and the consequences for his credit record. I can also understand that he would feel 
further frustrated with the delay in having  the CCJ removed. 
When a business  makes a mistake, as Axa agrees it has done here, then we expect it to 
restore the consumers  position as far as its able to. We also consider the impact the error 
had on the consumer. 
Mr M provided Axa with evidence of the extra costs hed incurred for remortgaging  his home 
because of the CCJ. Axa has already refunded  these costs. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr M said hed incurred  costs because hed had to delay  home  improvements as he couldnt  
get credit. Axa said it wouldnt  pay for the costs  of Mr Ms home improvements as it said he 
wasnt out of pocket for this. Mr M told Axa of what hed needed to do to his home.  But I 
cant see evidence that the CCJ affected how much Mr M had to pay for these 
improvements. So I dont require Axa to compensate Mr M for this. 
Ref: DRN09587722Mr M said hed had to take time off work to deal with the claim and the complaint. I can 
understand that this caused  Mr M inconvenience. But I cant  say that he wouldnt have had 
to do this in any case.  Any claim and complaint is likely to cause some inconvenience. So I 
dont require Axa to compensate him for this.
Mr M said the CCJ had caused him and his family embarrassment, anxiety and stress. I can 
understand this and I think  Axa should  reasonably compensate him for this. But I think Axas 
offer of £1,500 is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused.  This is because its in 
keeping with what Id recommend in similar circumstances. So I dont require Axa to 
increase its offer.  
Mr M said he took out the credit referencing because of the CCJ. Mr M said he paid £206.46 
for this for nine months and hes provided evidence to show this. I think Mr M has explained 
that he only took out credit referencing because of the CCJ and to closely monitor its effects 
on his record. I think he wouldnt have taken  out the credit referencing if it hadnt  been for the 
CCJ. And so I think its fair and reasonable that Axa should refund these costs in order to 
restore Mr Ms position.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to 
pay Mr M £206.46 to refund the costs of credit referencing he incurred, in addition  to 
£890.50 for his mortgage costs and £1,500 for his distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0958772