K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  with 
1st Stop Car Finance  Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality  and that his rejection  of the car 
hasnt been accepted.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr L under a hire purchase agreement  with 1st Stop Car Finance 
that he electronically signed in January 2018.  He complained  to the dealer about a number 
of issues with the car within  30 days of the car being  supplied  to him and he said that he 
wanted to reject the car. He didnt receive a response from the dealer so complained  to 
1st Stop Car Finance. It said that the dealer would be happy to look at the issues but he 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 1st Stop Car Finance 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in February 2019.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She said that 
Mr Ls rejection of the car shouldve  been accepted and that 1st Stop Car Finance should 
allow him to reject the car, collect it from him and cancel the hire purchase agreement. But 
she said that Mr L had continued to drive  the car and managed to cover a notable amount of 
additional mileage   so she didnt think that any money should  be refunded to him.
1st Stop Car Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that the issue with opening the passenger  door couldnt have been  
present at the point of sale because an MOT test was completed in January 2018 and an 
issue with the door wouldve led to it failing  and it completed another MOT  test in January 
2019 so the fault wasnt  present then. It says that Mr L has provided no evidence to show 
that he had the issue  repaired and theres no evidence to show that the door was faulty 
when the car was supplied to him. So it says that there was no door issue present at the 
point of sale and the issue mustve  happened  at some point between  the MOT test in 
January 2019  and the date of the inspection in February 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1st Stop Car Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car 
was of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors, including  the age, and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr L was 
about eight years old, had been driven for about  60,000 miles and had a price of £2,995.  
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Mr L wrote  to the dealer about a number of issues with the car in February  2018   less than 
30 days after the car had been  supplied to him. Those issues  related to the drivers door, the 
glove compartment, the fan regulator,  noise from the rear wheels, the tyres,  the CD player, 
the turbo and a safety recall. And he said that he wanted to reject  the car.
Ive seen no evidence  to show that the dealer responded to that letter.  Mr L then wrote to 
Ref: DRN034222421st Stop Car Finance and it said that the dealer would be happy to look at the issues  with the 
car. There were then some  difficulties with communications between the dealer, 1St Stop Car 
Finance and Mr L which led to this matter not being progressed.  Mr L contacted  1st Stop Car 
Finance again  and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert  in 
February 2019  more  than a year after Mr L had first complained  about the faults with the 
car. The inspection  report recorded that the cars mileage at that time was 69,255 miles  so 
Mr L had been  able to use the car to drive about 9,000 miles.
The inspection report says that no fault with the turbo, tyres or rear wheel bearings  was 
present but that the CD player didnt work, the fan regulator wasnt  working correctly, the left 
mounting for the glove box was broken, and there was an issue  with the front passenger  
door. 
Mr L said that hed replaced the tyres.  Tyres are a wear and tear item and Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that the car was supplied to Mr L with tyres that 
werent of satisfactory  quality at that time.  And Mr L said that hed replaced both rear wheel 
bearings which he said had solved the noise  issue from the rear wheels. But he had no 
invoice or receipt  for that. 
But Mr L had complained about  issues with the glove compartment, the fan regulator,  noise 
from the rear wheels and the CD player  within 30 days of the car being supplied  to him and 
hed asked to reject the car because of those issues.  And those issues   other than the 
noise from the rear wheels - were still present more than a year later when the car was 
inspected. So I consider  it to be more likely than not in these circumstances  that the car was 
faulty when it was supplied to Mr L and that he was entitled to reject the car within 30 days 
because of those  faults.
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for 1st Stop Car Finance to accept Mr Ls 
rejection of the car and that it should  arrange  for the car to be collected  from him and for the 
hire purchase agreement to be ended. Mr L has continued to use the car so I consider that it 
can keep the monthly  payments that hes made  under the agreement for the use that his had 
from the car. And Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr L paid a deposit for the car.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. And I order  1st Stop Car 
Finance to end the hire purchase  agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr L  both at no cost to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0342224