K820x#14The complaint
Mr G says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax),  didnt do enough to help when 
he fell victim to a scam.  He says Halifax should have done more  to recover the money he 
lost and that it should reimburse him.
What happened
On 30 October 2018, Mr G went into a Halifax branch  and made a faster payment for 
£3,490 to an individual payee for the purchase  of a car. The payment was made at 09:22am.
Unfortunately this was a scam. Mr G had in fact been on a fake website which  had imitated a 
well-known vendor site. Mr G received correspondence from the fake seller regarding  the car 
and received an invoice through the fake platform which  provided  the details and instructions 
of where payment was to be made to. 
The invoice provided a name,  sort code and account and Mr G had been  led to believe  the 
transfer, while made through his bank,  was also being made through / to a payment service 
provider. And this payment service provider would  hold the funds for seven days while Mr G 
could inspect the car and return it getting  a refund  if he was unhappy  or didnt want  the car. 
The fraudster advised Mr G that once the funds had been received and were being held, the 
car would be shipped to Mr G.
At 11:00am on the same  day, the fraudster explained to Mr G that he had been  authorised  to 
ship the vehicle  and that Mr G would receive an email once this had been done.
Subsequently at 14:10pm, Mr G received an email  confirming  that the car would be delivered 
on Friday 2 November  2018.
Mr G, at some point,  contacted the payment service provider and then the actual vendor site. 
He discovered he had been  scammed into using  a fake site. It wasnt  the actual vendor site 
and the payment hadnt been made  through the payment service  provider.
Mr G, on the morning  of 31 October  2018,  visited the branch to let it know  he had been the 
victim of a scam. Halifax logged the fraud claim and contacted the receiving bank (the bank 
used by the scammer) straight  away, to see if it could recover  all or any of the funds for 
Mr G. Mr G also reported the matter to Action Fraud.
The receiving bank  responded  to Halifax on 1 November 2018 advising that no funds  
remained.
Unhappy, Mr G complained to Halifax. When hed contacted Action  Fraud, it had told Mr G 
that the money was still being held at the receiving  bank.  Because of this Mr G thought 
Halifax could have  done more recover the funds he had lost.
Halifax wrote  to Mr G on 5 December 2018 explaining that it wasnt  able to recover  any of 
the funds, as the beneficiary bank had confirmed to it on 1 November 2018 that no funds 
remained.
Within Halifaxs letter it advised  Mr G that he could refer the matter to our service if he 
remained unhappy. Mr G subsequently  brought his complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN01581392Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think  Halifax  ought 
to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent  in the circumstances. 
And they also felt Halifax couldnt have reasonably done anymore to try and recover  the 
funds from the receiving bank. They were  satisfied Halifax had contacted  the receiving bank 
as soon as Mr G had informed it that he had become a victim  of a scam and unfortunately no 
funds remained.  
As Mr G disagreed, and as the matter  hasnt been resolved, its been passed  to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  
It is the case that Mr G authorised the payment in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations  2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place here) that means  Mr G is responsible for the payment. That remains the case  even 
though Mr G was the unfortunate  victim  of a scam.
There are times when I might  expect a bank to question a transaction  or payment, even 
though it may have  been properly authorised. Broadly speaking,  firms  like Halifax  have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr G when he made a payment of £3,490 to a new payee, or whether it should have done 
more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully.  From  what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual  about the 
payment or the amount that ought to have alerted Halifax to the possibility Mr G was being 
scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and transactions  for its customers  each 
day. And a bank  has to strike  a balance as to when  it should possibly intervene  on a 
payment against  not holding up or delaying its customers requests.
 
In this case, looking at Mr Gs account and activity, I can see Mr G had enough funds in his 
account and the payment wasnt clearing or emptying his account, which can often be an 
indicator of a scam. I dont think there were grounds  for Halifax  to be suspicious Mr G may 
Ref: DRN01581393be a victim of fraud. All things considered, I think the fact that Halifax didnt flag the payment 
as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also looked  to see whether Halifax acted promptly and in a timely manner in trying to 
seek to recover the funds once it was notified  of the scam. When Mr G visited the Halifax 
branch the morning after the payment had been made, Halifax  logged  the fraud  claim. It has 
provided records to show  it contacted  the receiving bank that same  morning. So Im satisfied 
Halifax did what it could to try and recover the funds  for Mr G, but unfortunately the funds 
had already been withdrawn. 
I appreciate Mr G feels that Halifax could have done more to recover the funds, and this is 
based on what he says he was told by Action Fraud  that the funds still remained in the 
account. But as explained above, Halifax  contacted  the receiving bank on 31 October 2018, 
and the receiving bank responded the next day confirming that no funds remained in the 
account.
Overall, while  I appreciate Mr Gs been  the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Halifaxs 
decision not to refund him in this instance  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
say this because  it followed Mr Gs instructions to make  the payment and I havent  seen  any 
reason why it shouldnt  have  done this. And unfortunately, as the funds had already been 
withdrawn, it wasnt able to recover the funds or do anything to help Mr G further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0158139