K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about information Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  recorded on 
her credit file and the time it took to remove that.
background
Miss M was the victim of identity fraud when accounts in her name were opened fraudulently 
by someone else. She registered her details with CIFAS. And Halifax got in touch near the 
start of 2017 to ask if she had applied to increase  the overdraft  limit on a Halifax  account. 
Miss M said she didnt have an account with Halifax and the bank agreed to reject  the 
application. Miss M thought that was the end of the matter. But, a few months later, she 
found Halifax had recorded information on her credit file linking her to a third party she didnt 
know. 
Miss M contacted Halifax and it told her the information  would  be removed but this would 
take about 60 days. Miss M says it took nearly  nine months to sort this out. She feels this 
was far too long and its wrong that she had to chase Halifax to get things resolved. She 
considers Halifax should  pay around  £900 compensation.  
Halifax says it didnt  realise the information  in question would appear on Miss Ms credit file. 
It has fixed her credit  record now and apologised.  Halifax paid Miss M £100 to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.  
Our adjudicator doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She has sympathy for 
Miss M. But, shes  satisfied Halifax acknowledged  it could have handled things better and its 
taken steps to rectify matters. She cant see that Miss M lost out financially as a result  of 
what Halifax did. And she thinks  £100  compensation seems fair and reasonable overall. 
Miss M doesnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I am sorry  to hear about whats happened  to Miss M. I can see she has been  worried and 
inconvenienced as a result of identity fraud. And I understand having  to contact Halifax,  
more than once,  to correct information recorded  on her credit  file, has caused  additional 
frustration and inconvenience. 
I realise this is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss M but having  considered  this 
matter carefully, Ive reached  much the same conclusions as our adjudicator for basically the 
same reasons.
Halifax accepts Miss M should  have  received  better service here so wed expect it to take 
appropriate steps to put things right. I can see Halifax  has apologised, arranged  for the 
incorrect information it recorded to be removed from Miss Ms credit  file and paid Miss M 
£100 for the upset and inconvenience  she experienced. 
Ref: DRN00688272I understand Miss M doesnt think this is enough  compensation. She feels  Halifax  took far 
too long to sort things out - meaning shes had to chase Halifax  and other third parties to 
have her credit record corrected. 
I appreciate Miss M has been through a distressing experience.  I can see shes  had to go to 
some trouble  to get the information Halifax recorded  incorrectly  removed from her credit 
history. And I think its understandable  shes frustrated and disappointed it has taken so long 
to do that. 
But, its not the role of this service to punish financial businesses  or their employees. In this 
sort of situation, we take a fair and reasonable approach to assess how much  (if any) 
compensation should be paid. 
I havent seen  anything to show that Miss M is out of pocket as a result  of Halifaxs  actions. 
And, having considered the circumstances  overall, I think £100  compensation seems 
reasonable. Thats in line with what I wouldve awarded in this case, if this payment  had not 
been made already. So, Im not persuaded I can fairly require Halifax to pay Miss M 
additional compensation - or do anything  further  in response to this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0068827