K821x#15complaint
Ms D and Mr B say Leeds  Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 11 January 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had been mis-sold. I said Id consider anything  else anyone  wanted  to send me 
 so long as I received it by 11 February  2019.
Ms D and Mr Bs representative  didnt  reply. Leeds added some  comments,  which Ill talk 
about below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Leeds pointed out that Mr B also had a separate PPI policy, and questioned whether 
my decision  covered that one, too. To clarify, this decision is only about Ms Ds PPI policy  
Mr B is only party to the complaint because he was jointly responsible for the mortgage.  
Ms D and Mr Bs representative  only submitted a complaint about  Ms Ds policy, and Leeds 
final response was only about Ms Ds policy. So if the representative  would like to complain 
about Mr Bs separate policy, then theyd need to do so in a separate complaint.
Leeds argued that the PPI paid out in addition  to Ms Ds work benefits, and that it covered 
unemployment as well. I understand  Leeds  argument, and in many cases that would be a 
significant point.  But in the particular  circumstances of this case, it looks  like Ms Ds very 
generous benefits  were  enough that she didnt really need  an entire main portion of the PPI. 
I think thats enough to mean it was mis-sold here,  even if the other main portion offered a 
potentially useful benefit. Further, as I explained  in my provisional  decision, income 
protection policies  often  reduced their benefit proportionally to any other  pay-outs one got  
such as from PPI. So theres a distinct possibility here that the PPI wouldve given Ms D no 
extra benefit  at all in a sickness claim.
Leeds also argued that Ms D and Mr B had a six month free period where they could think  
about whether  the PPI was right for them. But the onus was on Leeds to give suitable advice 
at the time of the sale. It is not good enough  for Leeds to expect Ms D and Mr B to realise 
any flaws in the sale later and cancel the policy after the fact.
Lastly, Leeds pointed to other decisions where we didnt  think other PPI policies were mis-
sold to those particular  customers. But our service  looks at each complaint on its own merits. 
In the particular circumstances of Ms D and Mr Bs case, I think this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN05765612putting things right
Leeds should put Ms D and Mr B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out the 
PPI policy  for Ms D. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Leeds should:
Pay Ms D and Mr B back the amount they paid each month for this PPI policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Ms D and Mr B made a successful claim under Ms Ds PPI policy, Leeds can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Leeds to take off tax from this interest. Leeds must give 
Ms D and Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one. Ms D and Mr B 
can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms D and 
Mr Bs complaint about Ms Ds PPI policy. Leeds Building Society should put things right in 
the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05765613COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms D and Mr B say Leeds Building  Society  mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about  a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms D and Mr B disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms D and Mr Bs case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far I think Ms D and Mr Bs PPI policy  was mis-sold here, and Ill explain  
why.
Leeds recommended the policy to Ms D and Mr B, so it had to check it was right for them.  But I dont 
think it was right for them.
Ms D was entitled  to six months of full sick pay, followed by a work Income Protection Plan (IPP) that 
then covered her for up to three years. I havent been given a copy of the policy document, but I think 
thats understandable given just how long ago it was. Ms D has been able to forward a message from 
her former HR department and a copy of her benefits booklet that confirmed her entitlement. She also 
said she had substantial savings at the time, too.
So it looks like Ms D couldve managed  without the PPI for long enough not to really need it. Further,  
with many income protection policies,  they reduced the benefit  you got if you were receiving any other 
pay-outs at the same time  such as from PPI. So theres even a chance that the PPI would  reduce 
Ms Ds existing work benefits, leaving her no better off.
Leeds dont still have the record  of the advice  it gave  Ms D and Mr B, which is also understandable. 
But I cant be reasonably satisfied that Ms D and Mr B were given suitable  advice here. It seems  more 
likely that if Leeds had given  them suitable advice, then it wouldve been made clear that the policy 
wasnt right for them  and they wouldnt have bought it. So I think its most  likely that Ms D and Mr B 
have lost out because  of what  Leeds  did wrong.
what I think the business should do
Leeds should put Ms D and Mr B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already,  and Leeds should:
Pay Ms D and Mr B back the amount  they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% simple a year.
Ref: DRN05765614If Ms D and Mr B made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, Leeds can take off what they got 
for the claim  from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Leeds  to take off tax from this interest. Leeds must give Ms D and Mr B a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one. Ms D and Mr B can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Ms D and Mr Bs complaint, and to direct Leeds 
Building Society to put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  Leeds and Ms D and Mr B send  me any more information  or comments  to look at by 11 
February 2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0576561