K820x#14complaint
Mr B says he was mis sold an executive personal  pension (EPP) in 1995  by Abbey Life, now 
Phoenix Life Limited.
background
Mr B was a member of an EPP. Hed joined that EPP in early 1992. A transfer illustration 
issued on 6 July 1995 showed  a fund value of £5,763.13 and a net transfer value of 
£3,993.94. It seems that Mr B was unhappy with the service  from the existing provider. 
Theres a handwritten letter from Mr B dated 23 May 1995 which said he was applying for a 
new company pension and stopping his existing plan because  of a lack of service  and loss 
of confidence  in the existing provider. 
Its recorded that the adviser explained to Mr B the implications of ceasing  contributions  to 
his existing plan and starting a new plan, particularly with regard to charges and said that it 
wouldnt be in his best interests.  But that Mr B was insistent that he wanted  to commence a 
new EPP with a new provider. His main reason was his total dissatisfaction  with the level of 
service and help provided  by his existing provider. He also wanted to transfer the fund value 
from the existing  EPP to the new EPP but hed been told that would most  definitely not be in 
his best interests .  
There was also a replacement policy questionnaire which  Mr B signed and which says the 
charges incurred in setting up the new EPP had been fully explained to him. And that he 
didnt want to consider  other options, including  continuing contributions to the existing plan. 
A new EPP was set up. The regular contributions  were £360 per month  with a pension  term 
life assurance premium of £19.60 providing a sum assured of £41,554. The contributions 
would be solely invested in the International Fund. Over the next three  years, the 
contributions increased to £1,280  per month. And the normal retirement age changed from 
60 to 65.
On 1 June 1998 a lump sum of 5,377.51 was transferred  into the new EPP. And on 30 
December 1998  a loan of £12,500 was paid out to Mr Bs employer. Premiums (amounting 
to less than £4,000) continued to be paid into the policy  until July 2002.
Mr B has complained to Phoenix Life that the EPP was mis sold, an individual plan wouldve 
sufficed and hes been disadvantaged by the charges  for setting  up a new plan. Hed 
complained in 2008 about the penalty  that would apply if the plan was transferred to another  
provider. In response Abbey Life referred to the loan and its effect  on the premiums paid to 
fund value ratio. 
Phoenix Life didnt  uphold the complaint that the EPP had been mis sold. It said Mr B had 
signed to say he wanted to take out the policy as a replacement for his existing  EPP. And 
hed confirmed he understood  the consequences  and the disadvantages of that. Hed also 
have been provided with a product brochure  and an illustration. Amongst other things  the 
policy charging structure was detailed. 
But the complaint was upheld in part and on the basis  that it wasnt  suitable to recommend a 
high risk fund. A loss calculation was undertaken and Phoenix Life offered to increase the 
value of the plan by £612.20 (based on then current unit prices).  
Ref: DRN01107132Mr B referred his complaint to us. It was investigated by one of our adjudicators.  He said 
Mr B had an existing EPP and later used a loan facility that wouldnt have been available  
through an ordinary  personal pension. So the issue wasnt whether an EPP was suitable  but 
if setting up a new EPP was appropriate. 
The adjudicator referred  to the notes made at the time indicating dissatisfaction with the 
existing provider and to Mr Bs handwritten note. It was recorded that Mr B had been  advised 
against moving his benefits but he was insistent that he wanted  to start a new plan with a 
different provider. It was also noted that the adviser  had told Mr B that, due to the charges, 
contributing to a new plan and transferring his existing EPP fund wasnt in Mr Bs best 
interests. 
The adjudicator didnt think it was unreasonable to arrange a new plan if the customer  was 
(as Mr B appeared to be) very unhappy  with the service from the existing provider.  An  
adviser couldnt compel a customer to stay with their existing provider if the customer was 
very unhappy with the service provided.  But the advantages and disadvantages of changing  
should be explained. Based on what hed seen, the adjudicator thought  a discussion about 
charges was likely  to have taken place. 
At the time Mr B was about eighteen  years  away from retiring (and five years later his 
retirement date was extended  by a further five years).  There  was time to absorb the initial 
costs of setting up the policy.  The EPP was affordable.  Given  Mr Bs recorded dissatisfaction 
with the existing provider, it was reasonable to set up a new plan. It also provided life cover  
on slightly better terms. 
The main  reason for the lack of growth  within the EPP was the loan facility  drawn  down in 
1998. Payments  werent  maintained for long and didnt even cover  half of the borrowed sum. 
The money had been used for cash flow in the business which  might  indicate why 
contributions to the pension reduced  and then ceased. The loan reduced Mr Bs pension 
benefits but it supported Mr Bs business  so overall he hadnt  lost out. 
The adjudicator thought  the offer made  by Phoenix  Life was fair and that it didnt need to do 
anything else to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr Bs representative said Mr B wasnt happy  with the adjudicators  findings.  Amongst other  
things he said Mr B had been goaded  into writing the letters and signing the forms and had 
only done so because he thought he was dealing with a friend.  He could have contributed  to 
a personal pension and had no need  to pay the extra charges for an EPP. The different 
charging structures werent  explained  to him or illustrated. If Mr B had been dissatisfied  with 
the existing provider the adviser should  have  made  a complaint on Mr Bs behalf and sought 
a refund of the charges. The fact that the funds werent transferred away  from the original 
provider until some three years after the new EPP had been set up indicates that there was 
nothing much wrong with the existing provider. 
About the loan,  Mr B had been  encouraged  to increase his contributions  so that he could 
borrow funds from the EPP in the future.  The true costs werent explained to him and he 
could have borrowed money from the bank  instead.  Mr B has suffered high charges on the 
premiums he paid and on borrowing  the funds. If the loan was for cashflow purposes that 
wasnt allowable. 
The adjudicator responded but he wasnt persuaded to change  his view for the reasons he 
set out. Mr Bs representative  made  some  further  comments. In summary he said that just 
Ref: DRN01107133because Mr B had an EPP didnt mean  it should be replaced with another. Such  plans are 
expensive and generate a lot more commission. Mr B should  have had a personal pension 
plan. If an EPP had been suitable  but Mr B was unhappy with the service that should have 
been dealt with  he didnt  need  to replace the EPP. And he wasnt  dissatisfied with the 
existing provider. Hed continued with that plan and it had provided considerably higher 
benefits than those with Phoenix  Life  a figure of £90,000 was mentioned. Mr Bs 
representative also queried the absence  of documentation relating to the loan facility.  
The adjudicator considered the further points made  but he wasnt  persuaded to change his 
view. In summary he said that Mr B had utilised borrowing  facilities that werent  available 
through a mainstream personal pension.  The EPP wouldnt have been unsuitable simply 
because of the costs.  The original EPP (and its suitability) wasnt  part of this complaint. That 
plan had been made paid up. It was unclear  where  the figure of £90,000 had come from. In 
December 2008  Mr B had withdrawn  a tax free cash lump sum (£11,395) and used the 
balance of the fund (£29,868.18) to purchase an annuity. 
The outcome of Mr Bs discussions with the adviser  were recorded on the relevant 
paperwork. Where what was said in a meeting wasnt  agreed, wed look at the documentary 
evidence from the time.  It showed that Mr B wanted  to move away  from his existing provider. 
The adviser told him not to transfer but agreed to arrange for contributions  to be paid into a 
new policy, although he did say there  were consequences in doing that. 
Phoenix Life hadnt been able to provide documentation relation to the loan which had been  
drawn down more than twenty years ago. It wasnt appropriate to assume no information 
was provided because it hasnt been retained  for twenty years. On balance  and given  that 
regulations were in place  then, it was likely that a pension provider wouldve issued 
documentation setting  out the costs for a loan facility with the EPP. 
Mr Bs representative forwarded a statement  for the plan. He said that as a result  of the loan 
and its non payment  plus charges instead  of a value of £100,000 for a contribution of about  
£29,000 the value was only about  £19,000.  Mr B had been sold the wrong  plan  he didnt 
need the plan so that he could have a loan. The loan was the advisers idea. And the adviser 
had dictated the letter signed  by Mr B saying he was unhappy  with the existing  provider. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the views  expressed by the adjudicator and the reasons he 
gave as to why he wasnt able to uphold  the complaint are unreasonable. I dont have much 
to add to what  the adjudicator has said. 
As the adjudicator has pointed out, Mr Bs complaint relates to events over twenty years ago. 
Its probably inevitable  that not all the documentation will have survived. Recollections may 
also be less reliable. 
I note all thats been said about the circumstances in which  Mr B signed the letter saying he 
was dissatisfied  with his existing EPP provider.  But I think, given the time thats elapsed, its 
not unreasonable to say the contemporaneous  documentation carries weight. I dont think I 
Ref: DRN01107134can reach a finding,  based on what Mr B now says, many years later, that he wasnt really 
dissatisfied with the existing EPPs service  or that he only signed the letter and other  
documents because  the adviser  told him to. I think Mr B would or ought to have known that, 
if signed something which wasnt right and there was a dispute about  it later,  it might  be 
difficult for him to say that what he signed  didnt reflect his true position. 
So my starting point is that Mr B was unhappy  with his existing EPP provider and because of 
that he was determined to stop contributing to that plan. I note that Mr B was described  as 
insistent. He did sign a letter  which, on the face of it, explained why he wanted to cease 
contributing to his existing  EPP.  If Mr B was an insistent client  then Phoenix Life wont be 
responsible if the EPP was unsuitable. If Mr B decided to proceed despite advice to the 
contrary then he was given suitable  advice  that he shouldnt proceed   which  he chose to 
ignore. 
Id agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt for the adviser, faced with Mr Bs dissatisfaction 
and his apparently  settled  intention to cease contributing to his existing plan, to try to resolve 
matters by suggesting that Mr B complain to his existing  provider  and/or  seek a refund of 
charges. In a situation where a customer has lost confidence (as its recorded Mr B had) I 
wouldnt say an adviser must seek to persuade  the customer  to remain with that provider,  
assuming that the impact and the disadvantages of moving on are made  clear.  
Phoenix Life says the charges for the new plan were fully disclosed. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think there was a discussion about the charges that would be incurred if a new plan 
was set up. It seems  that the adviser didnt recommend that Mr B establish  a new plan. In 
fact the adviser  appears to have told Mr B that ceasing his contributions to the existing plan 
and transferring his fund wouldnt  be in Mr Bs best interests. So I dont think I can say the 
new EPP was unsuitable based on the charges,  given that it seems  those were pointed out 
to Mr B and discussed. 
Mr Bs representative has made  it clear  that he doesnt think Mr B needed an EPP. But the 
EPP which is the subject  of this complaint was set up to replace an existing EPP.  Were not 
looking at the suitability or otherwise  of the original EPP. I dont think  the adjudicator was 
wrong to approach the complaint on the basis  that the EPP was a replacement. That doesnt 
mean, simply because it replaced  an existing  EPP, that the new EPP was suitable. But Mr B 
did have his own company and so there  were  advantages in having an EPP (for example 
corporation tax savings). I think the fact that Mr B did avail himself of the loan facility that the 
EPP offered  is important in considering suitability.  
Mr Bs representative disagrees and has said that Mr B, if he needed funds,  could have 
arranged a bank  loan. But I think it would be very difficult to establish now exactly  what the 
position was and whether alternative funding would have been available and, if so, whether 
on more favourable terms.
Its not entirely clear  what the borrowing was used for. Cashflow,  refurbishing  business 
premises and a car have  been mentioned. Mr Bs representative has said how the loan 
would operate  and the costs involved werent properly explained to Mr B. I think  its very 
difficult to draw reliable conclusions now about  details such as the extent to which the loan 
and the charges were explained. As Ive said, I recognise that, some twenty years later, not 
all the paperwork will have survived.  But I dont  see any real reason to assume  that, at the 
time, a major provider such as Abbey Life wouldnt have complied with the regulations then 
in force  as to the provision of information, illustrations etc and even if the documentation 
cant now be produced.  
Ref: DRN01107135All in all I dont think theres enough  evidence for me to say the EPP was unsuitable. Or that 
Mr B didnt make a properly informed  choice about  taking it out.  
I think the offer Phoenix Life has made in respect of the fund choice is fair and reasonable. 
Its up to Mr B if he wants to accept that offer. I dont think Phoenix Life needs  to do anything  
more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2021.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0110713