K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Pinnacle Insurance Plc didnt pay out on a claim made under his pet 
insurance policy.
background
Mr S took out a lifetime pet insurance policy to cover  his dog. In September  2018, Mr S 
made a claim under  his policy to cover  the costs relating to his dogs prolapsed  third eyelid 
gland on the left eye. Pinnacle settled  this claim.  In October 2018,  Mr S made another claim 
under his policy to cover  the costs relating to his dogs prolapsed third eyelid gland  but this 
time it was for the right eye. Pinnacle did not settle this claim. 
Pinnacle say Mr S second  claim was for a bilateral condition, which  its policy treated as 
one condition. So because  it had paid the maximum  benefit of £1,000 under the first claim, it 
wouldnt pay the second claim.  
Mr S remained unhappy  so he brought his complaint to us. He says his vet didnt think  one 
caused the other, so it should  be treated as two separate claims. Pinnacle  says its vet 
thought it was a bilateral  condition. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint and 
didnt uphold  it. They thought the second  surgery was for a bilateral condition. Mr S 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint so its been passed  to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr S complaint.  I understand  this will come as a disappointment  to Mr S but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Pinnacles policy is clear that a bilateral condition, which Mr S dog suffered from, is treated 
as one condition.  That means the maximum amount allowed for a condition  is applied to 
such a bilateral condition  claim. The maximum amount per condition  allowed under Mr S 
policy is £1,000  and Pinnacle  has paid this.
Mr S policy says the following:
Condition(s) means any illness or accidental injury whether or not it results in a diagnosis. 
There will be conditions  that will fall in the following  categories:
Bilateral Condition(s) means  any illness or accidental injury  affecting bilateral body 
parts of your pet such as (but not limited to) ears, eyes, cruciate ligaments, hips and 
patellae;
When applying a maximum  benefit  or exclusion, we will consider bilateral conditions,  
recurring conditions  or related conditions as one illness or accidental injury,  unless  a vet 
confirms that they are unrelated. We may seek further confirmation of this from a vet 
appointed by us.
Ref: DRN01196502Mr S vet explained that although the prolapsed  third eyelid was the same  condition  it didnt 
occur at the same time so it isnt bilateral and should  be considered as two separate  claims. 
Pinnacle sought further confirmation from a vet it appointed who is a specialist in treatment  
of disorders and diseases of the eye. Pinnacles  vet says prolapsed third eyelid could be 
unilateral or bilateral. But the vet thought  Mr S breed of dog had a tendency to suffer from a 
bilateral prolapse which  is supported by the dogs  right eye prolapsing a few weeks after the 
left eye. 
Mr S vet says that animals who suffer from this condition quite often only have one eye 
affected at a time, however  Pinnacles  vet does  refer to dogs - and specifically the breed of 
Mr S dog are likely to suffer from bilateral prolapses. And the proximity of the two surgeries 
does support this. So on balance, taking  into consideration the circumstances of this 
complaint, I think the second claim is considered a bilateral condition  to the first claim. 
Pinnacles policy seeks to limit its liability on bilateral conditions  and specifically mentions the 
eyes. It clearly explains this in the actual policy. In doing so, I consider its brought  this 
limitation of benefit  appropriately to Mr S attention. So I dont think  it has done  anything 
wrong in applying this term to Mr S claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019. 
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0119650