K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about Society of Lloyds. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his van insurance policy.
background
I considered this complaint and outlined the background to the case and my thoughts in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr A took out a van insurance policy for a week in March 2018. Hed hired  a van to help a 
friend move address and took out his own insurance. Mr A parked the van up for a few days 
on a street  near his home after helping  his friend  move address and when  he returned to the 
van it had been  stolen.
Mr A reported the theft to the police, the rental  company and Lloyds. But it turned down the 
claim alleging fraud  so Mr A complained to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr A and eventually upheld his complaint. She initially 
thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably but changed her mind  following a greater scrutiny 
of the evidence. She asked Lloyds to remove any fraud markers from Mr As records,  to 
reconsider the claim and pay £300  for the stress caused in delaying  the claim and alleging 
fraud.
As Lloyds  didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I can understand why 
Lloyds has alleged fraud but I dont  think there  is sufficient evidence  to say that so Im 
thinking about upholding this complaint.
Mr A hired a van from a company and Lloyds are alleging  that he knew  the owner. And 
while there is evidence  to suggest  that people Mr A knows  were friends or associates of the 
hire company I havent seen any evidence to substantiate the position  that he knew them. 
Mr A says that a friend of his suggested  he hire a van from them which  he did. Furthermore, 
I can understand why Lloyds  has questions  around the fact that the woman Mr A helped to 
move may also be known to the people who own the hire company. But Mr A has explained 
how he knew her and that he had been involved in a relationship with her.
However, even if Mr A knew the people at the hire company Lloyds  would still have provided  
insurance for Mr A. So even if he did know them, and I havent been provided with sufficient 
evidence to say that he did and certainly  not enough to allege fraud, Lloyds would still have 
insured him.
However, I can understand why Lloyds has questions surrounding the claim and I would 
expect Mr A to cooperate  fully in any further  enquiries it wishes to make.  For example, 
provide full contact  details  of the person he was helping move address so that Lloyds can 
investigate further.  And answer any further questions it may have surrounding the hire of the 
van and its movements. 
Ref: DRN03395632So, in summary,  I can understand why Lloyds has questions surrounding the validity of the 
claim and the fact that the van hadnt been  insured for quite a period before Mr A took out 
his insurance. But that doesnt mean  that Mr A has acted fraudulently.  
While the matter has been with me for consideration Ive asked Lloyds to clarify whether  
they have placed any fraud markers  against  Mr As name and it confirmed it hasnt. As it 
hasnt placed  any marker  against Mr A I dont think he should be awarded compensation. I 
say this as this hasnt  had any lasting  effect  on Mr A. And in relation to the delay I think that 
there was always going  to be delay in a case like this. I say this as there are a number of 
lines of enquiry that Lloyds had to undertake and its investigations are reasonable. It just 
shouldnt have referred to fraud in declining the claim.
So I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for Lloyds  to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of the 
policy, without relying on the fraud clause.
replies
Mr A hasnt responded to the provisional decision while Lloyds has responded in detail. But 
in the main it has gone over arguments that it has already presented.
Lloyds reiterated  that it hasnt declined  Mr As claim for fraud and no markers were  made  
against Mr As name and his policy wasnt voided.  But the clause was quoted to remind Mr A 
of his obligations. It stated that it had reasonable questions surrounding the claim.
Lloyds said that it simply  said had further  questions  and required more information in order  
to consider the claim. It went on to say again  that the social  media detail that it had provided 
shows a link between the parties. And acknowledged that it wouldve insured Mr A had it 
have known of a relationship between him and the owner of the hire car company but it 
doesnt see the relevance of this. 
Ultimately, Lloyds has said that it hasnt said it wasnt prepared to reconsider the claim and 
didnt decline the claim for fraud so wonders why the complaint is being upheld.  Lloyds says 
that it is for the policy holder to take action  to evidence the loss and then the claim can be 
given further consideration.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the latest 
representations, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. 
Ultimately, Lloyds and I agree are now in agreement that the claim should  be reconsidered 
without a reliance  on fraud. But when it turned Mr As claim down it did outline fraud as its 
main concern and now feels  that it is up to Mr A to take action to evidence his loss in order 
that the claim can be given further consideration. But I dont  agree.
Im pleased to see that Lloyds has moved away from any allegation of fraud. But it did 
suggest to Mr A that it wasnt  dealing with his claim outlining its Fraudulent  Claims clause. 
Indeed, when Mr A mirrored back that he was disappointed that it was seeking to refuse my 
claim on the premise that I am in breach of 1.1.1  Fraudulent Claims Lloyds didnt correct 
Ref: DRN03395633Mr A which is surprising  if it wasnt  alleging fraud.  And it hasnt  really  told Mr A any other  
reason why it has turned down his claim.  
So, although  Lloyds  may not have intended to imply fraud when it turned down the claim 
that was all it said to Mr A. As it didnt place any markers against Mr A I dont feel that he 
should be awarded any compensation and I note that Mr A hasnt made  any further 
representations about this.
I now simply leave it to Lloyds to reconsider the claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy without relying  on the fraud clause. And I expect Lloyds to undertake 
any further enquiries and investigation it requires in finalising Mr As claim.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to reconsider  Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions  
of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0339563