K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy because she says Barclays Bank UK PLC has mis-sold her an income 
insurance policy. 
background
In 2019 Miss G was diagnosed with cancer. She rang to make a claim on her income 
insurance policy. She was told that her policy didnt cover her for accident and sickness  but 
only for unemployment. 
Miss G says she took out the policy in a branch in 2010 and shed bought  accident  and 
sickness insurance as well. She explained English wasnt her first language and Barclays  
had arranged an interpreter to help her during the sale. 
Barclays reviewed the complaint and said the policy hadnt been mis-sold.  They  said 
documentation made it clear what was and wasnt covered. And the information from the 
time of the sale didnt  suggest it had been mis-sold.  They also pointed  out the policy had 
been in place for a long time and had been reviewed and renewed. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary she didnt  think  there was enough 
evidence to show the policy was mis-sold. Miss G disagreed and asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to say at the outset  that I have a lot of empathy for Miss Gs position. Based on the 
information shes provided to our service I can see that things have been difficult  since  her 
diagnosis and I appreciate it must be upsetting to find that she didnt have the level of cover 
she expected.  
The issue  in this case is whether Miss G told Barclays she wanted cover for accident and 
sickness when she took out the policy and they failed to act on her instructions to do so. 
Miss G says she understood  the policy included this. Barclays says the evidence  they have 
provided indicates she didnt select accident  and sickness cover.
Ref: DRN04542572Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Miss G says that she was assisted  by an interpreter during the sales process. So Im 
satisfied Barclays took reasonable steps to ensure  they could have a proper 
discussion about the policy during the sales process
The information from the point of sale is quite  limited.  But I can see Miss G was 
discussing different options  for income  protection  during the meeting with Barclays 
and this policy was set up as a result  of the conversation. I also bear in mind  its a 
long time since the sale and Miss G hasnt given very detailed testimony about the 
sale  
Overall, the evidence Ive seen  doesnt suggest  that Barclays  made  an error by not 
adding cover for sickness. Ive seen  a letter sent to Miss G a few days after the policy 
was taken out. The letter tells Miss G to check the policy  schedule  and reminds her 
to check the policy  regularly to make  sure it was right for her. I note the letter was 
correctly addressed
The policy schedule says Miss G was covered for involuntary  unemployment.  There  
is no mention of cover for illness. It was Miss Gs responsibility to check the 
documents to make  sure that she was happy  with the level of cover  and it reflected 
her conversation with Barclays. If she wasnt sure about the translation then it was 
open to her to go back to Barclays  to make sure that shed got the cover  she wanted 
Miss G was sent letters every year reminding her about the policy.  And it was her 
responsibility to review the documents to check that the policy was still right for her. If 
she wasnt happy that the cover  for illness was missing  she had a number of 
opportunities to change  her policy. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0454257