K820x#14complaint
Mr F has 3 complaints about  Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco). First he says they failed 
to set up a direct debit  instruction (DD) when he signed up for a credit  card.  Because  of this 
he says it resulted in late payments and a default  being registered against him. He also says 
that when he called  Tesco he was unable to speak  with anyone and his letters were ignored 
too. Finally, he says that he was contacted by a debt collection agency to which Tesco had 
sold the debt and he had not given his consent  for them  to do that.
background
I wont repeat all of the adjudicators background summary because it covers the issues and 
I want to avoid repetition. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because  Ive ignored it, 
but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. Mr F has said that he believes that when 
he applied  for the credit  card he set up a DD instruction.  Tesco have disputed that saying a 
customer cant do that during the application process and that very process makes that 
clear. They also say that Mr F didnt set up any other DD after that time either.
Tesco say Mr F used  the credit card to make a purchase of £2,500 in February 2018 and 
statements were sent to him thereafter showing the fees and charges added. As Mr F failed 
to make payment  Tesco ultimately issued a default  notice and terminated  his account in 
August 2018.  Mr F made a payment of £2,500  on the 9 November 2018.  Mr F was unhappy 
with Tescos response and so an adjudicator  from this service looked into the complaint but 
didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly.  As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether the Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt 
with Mr F. My aim is to ensure  that a fair and reasonable  outcome has been achieved.  I do 
not perform the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make rules for 
financial businesses, punish  them,  or direct that they change  their processes. That falls 
under the remit  of the Financial Conduct Authority. Equally we are not a court  service.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where such evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. Looking at the available evidence, I 
think we have an unfortunate situation  here. 
Our adjudicator looked into Tescos procedure for applying for a credit  card and their 
process clearly shows that during the application process the request for bank details is for 
identification purposes and not to set up a DD. On balance whilst I dont dispute Mr F 
thought he might be setting up a DD, in fact he was not, and Tescos process is clear about  
that. And it is also Mr Fs responsibility to ensure he manages his account properly, and that 
would include ensuring he set up a DD. I do take note that Tesco  sent Mr F statements  
which would have shown  not only his balance and the fact that payments were not being 
made by DD, but also giving instructions  on how to make payment whether that be online,  by 
Ref: DRN02054832mobile app, by faster payment, by post (cheque), at a bank using  the giro slip or over the 
telephone.
Im also satisfied that Mr F would have  received  the default sum notices sent to him in April, 
May, June  and July  and  the default notices sent in July and August.  It is clear  that Mr F 
would therefore  have been  aware of the proposed action  Tesco  intended. I can also accept 
that Mr F wrote to Tesco  when he said he did. I have no reason to doubt him, and nor that 
he asked for a DD to be set up. But Tesco wouldnt have been able to do that unilaterally 
until they spoke  to him to verify his identity. I also have no reason to doubt Tesco when they 
say they did not receive his correspondence until they received his complaint  letter  sent by 
recorded delivery. So I cant say Tesco have acted  unfairly in not responding to his 
correspondence if they did not receive it.
The evidence shows Mr F did in fact contact Tesco on 8 occasions  by telephone, but the 
length of these calls was very short  - the longest  was 1 minute 48 seconds. Our adjudicator 
commented upon the calls, and I would agree that taking into account there would  be a 
security process to go through, they are not long enough for any meaningful  conversation 
with anyone. However some of the calls are long enough to have reached the point  where 
an agent could  have come begun a conversation,  but it appears the call was terminated  
prematurely by Mr F. And Tesco havent  had any other  problems with their automated 
telephony in that period. So I cant say that Mr F has been unable  to speak to anyone. Ive 
also considered  and taken into account  that Tesco did try to call Mr F on three  unsuccessful  
occasions in July and August 2018 to discuss his account but he was not available.  
With regard to Mr F being contacted by a debt collector by text, Tesco  are entitled  to sell 
their debts to third party companies.  Mr F appears  to be complaining about that third party 
company contacting him without his permission and that is not a complaint I can deal with 
here. If however I am wrong  and Mr F complains about Tesco contacting  him then he has 
agreed to that form of communication in the terms and conditions  applicable to his account.   
I know Mr F will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come  to the same conclusion  
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons and I cannot say that Tesco  have therefore  treated 
Mr F unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco  Personal  Finance 
PLC. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask [insert  
anonymised name here] to accept or reject my decision  before 25 December 2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205483