K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan in 2001. Mrs P says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
What we know of how Barclays  sold PPI polices like Mrs Ps makes  me think  that Barclays  
wouldve normally given Mrs P a choice about buying the PPI - and only added  it to her loan 
after shed indicated  she wanted it. Mrs P has told us the salesman was pushy and insisted 
she had to take the PPI to get the loan. But I havent anything  else to make  me think Mrs P 
was pressured  or misled  like this. And given how long ago the sale was, I wouldnt expect 
Mrs P to remember  it vividly or in detail. Taking all this into account, I havent  seen  enough 
to make me think Mrs P was misled by Barclays into thinking  she had to take the PPI - or 
pressured into agreeing to it. With all this in mind, on balance  I think its likely  Barclays made 
it clear that Mrs P didnt  have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I havent, 
for example, seen  anything to suggest she was likely to be affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover - or likely to be affected  by its early repayment  terms. And given 
how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs P made a successful claim she couldve  
got back quite  a bit more  than she paid for it.
The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ps work benefits. For accident  and sickness  it 
couldve covered  Mrs Ps payments for the rest of the loan term. And from what  Mrs P has 
said, her full work sick pay would halve  after six months. The PPI also had unemployment 
cover for up to twelve months  per claim. Mrs P has told us she had savings, but she chose 
to take a loan rather  than use her savings. With all Ive said above in mind, and given the 
loan she was taking  out, I think Mrs P had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But on balance I think she chose to take it - so it looks  to me like she 
wanted this type of cover. And, from what we know, the loan agreement set out the PPI 
costs separately  so I think Mrs P was aware  of what the costs  were. Also, for the reasons  
Ive given above, it seems  like the cover would have been useful if something went  wrong.
With what Ive said above in mind, taking everything  into account I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mrs P off taking out the cover.
What Ive said above means Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs P. But Barclays  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Ref: DRN03578832Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about all Mrs Ps points - including what shes  said about a language barrier. But 
Mrs P approached Barclays and agreed  to enter a financial arrangement.  And from what she 
has told us, she took a family member to help her. Overall what Mrs P has said about this 
doesnt persuade  me that she was unfairly  treated. So, for these reasons and the reasons 
Ive already given  above, these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mrs P any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
Barclays should pay back to Mrs P the extra  she paid each month  on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mrs P paid if the loan was paid off early. Barclays should also pay Mrs P 8%* simple  interest  
on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs P can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does have to pay back  to Mrs P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0357883