K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that a car they financed through an agreement  with 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd (BMF) has not been  of satisfactory quality. They  want  the vehicle 
to be repaired or be allowed to reject it.
background
On 8 May 2018,  Mr and Mrs O entered  into a hire purchase agreement  to acquire a used 
car. The agreement  was to pay £124.84 each month  for three years.  At the time of purchase,  
the car was nine years old.
On 29 June 2018, they noticed a warning light on the dashboard. The fault diagnosed 
related to the sparkplugs. It was repaired on 3 July 2018 and the warning light on the 
dashboard disappeared. But, two weeks later the light came on again.
On 6 August  2018, Mr and Mrs O took the car to an approved garage.  It inspected the car 
and diagnosed the fault as the O2 sensor.  It also confirmed the fault was not wear and tear 
and would have  been inherent at the point  of sale.
On 10 August 218, they reported the fault to BMF and provided  the diagnostic  report from 
the approved  garage. It was agreed  the dealership would  be given the opportunity  to repair  
the car at no cost to Mr and Mrs O. The car was taken  into the dealership  on 20 August 
2018, and repaired  the same day.
A few weeks  later, they started to experience more problems with the car. They  called the 
dealership on 3 September 2018. It agreed  to collect the car on 5 September 2018 for 
inspection. But on 5 September  2018,  Mrs O received a text to inform  her the dealership  was 
unable to collect the car that day and she should bring the car into the dealership on 7 
September so it could  order parts  and have the car repaired  by 10 September 2018.
Mrs O tried to contact  the dealership several times  but was unable to gain any answer.  She 
also drove to the dealership on a number  of occasions but found the garage closed and 
locked up.
On 29 September  2018, Mr O managed  to gain a response from the dealership. It said it had 
moved address  and they should  bring  the car to the new address. When they did, the 
dealership said the warranty  on the car had ended.
On 8 November  2018, Mr O contacted BMF to make  another complaint. He was advised to 
have the car inspected  to confirm any faults.
On 4 December  2018, the car was inspected again by the approved garage.  It carried  out a 
diagnostic test and found;
The engine oil pressure sensor  needed  replacing
The engine wiring  harness assembly needed replacing
Mr and Mrs O complained  to BMF. In its final response,  dated 9 January 2019 it said the 
faults were not the same  as those diagnosed  in August 2018 and so the repair work could be 
Mr and Mrs Os responsibility.
Ref: DRN05074602An investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs O. She contacted the approved  garage  
who explained although the diagnostic report shows different  parts are faulty; they are 
related and would have  been apparent when the dealership repaired the O2 sensor. She 
didnt think BMF had acted fairly or reasonably and so she asked them  to carry out the repair 
at no cost to Mr and Mrs O.
Mr and Mrs O accepted  the investigators  view.
BMF didnt. It said it disagreed with the approved repairer. It didnt think the faults were 
related, also finds the faults to be wear and tear, and so didnt agree it should  be responsible 
for the repair. It asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, I agree with the adjudicators view. I know that will disappoint 
BMF so please let me explain why. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I think  is more 
likely to be the case based on the information available.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs O acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and as a result,  our service is able to 
look into complaints  about  it. 
Because the car was supplied to Mr and Mrs O, under a hire purchase  agreement theres an 
implied term that the car is of satisfactory  quality. A car is of satisfactory quality if it meets  
the standard that a reasonable  person would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances including  (amongst other  things)  the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. Under the relevant law, the quality of the car includes its general state and condition 
and other  things like fitness  for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom  from minor  defects,  
safety and durability. 
I appreciate BMF disagree  with the approved  garages findings and suggest the faults  are 
unrelated and wear  and tear rather than an inherent  fault but on balance  I disagree.
Mr and Mrs O reported  the first fault just over a month after acquiring the car. After the first 
repair, the warning  light came on again. The approved garage diagnosed a second fault and 
it confirmed the fault was not wear and tear and would have been inherent at the point  of 
sale. BMF  have  accepted  this as they attempted  to repair the fault but within  a few weeks, 
Mr and Mrs O experienced problems again.  
So whilst I accept there is a difference of opinion regarding whether the faults are related or 
not, Im required to reach a decision based  on whether the information available suggests  
the faults were  inherent at the point of sale. Mr and Mrs O reported faults with this car within  
Ref: DRN05074603the first few months. There was further delay due to the garage moving premises and two 
reports from an approved garage indicating he faults  were inherent rather  than wear  and 
tear. The approved garage also has nothing to gain from its diagnosis; indeed the first 
diagnostic report was accepted by BMF  and so, on balance, Im persuaded the faults are 
related and were  there from the onset rather than unrelated and due to wear and tear.
I find it fair and reasonable then to ask BMF to put this right. As Ive determined the faults  
are related  to the earlier repair Im going  to ask BMF  to have  the car repaired at the 
approved garage  and cover all the costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and I direct. Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to:
Arrange for the car to be repaired at an approved garage and cover all the costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0507460