K821x#15complaint
Ms L says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five loans Satsuma  provided to Ms L between  April 2015 and 
February 2017. Ms Ls borrowing  history is set out in the table below as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidTime for 
repaymentAmount Repayment
1 22/04/2015 15/10/2015 6 £150.00 £42.50
2 27/11/2015 08/02/2016 13 weeks £100.00 £11.01
3 22/03/2016 27/06/2016 13 weeks £100.00 £11.01
4 15/07/2016 09/02/2017 30 weeks £200.00 £13.27
5 15/02/2017 outstanding 12 months £300.00 £49.80
Ms L complained that Satsumas irresponsible lending meant she struggled  to get out of the 
cycle and resulted  in her having  to enter  into a debt management plan and then into an 
individual voluntary arrangement (IVA).
In its final response Satsuma told Ms L that it had carried out a series of checks  including a 
credit-file search and had obtained her monthly income and expenditure details. Based on 
the information it received Satsuma said it was confident  it had done  everything that could  
be reasonably  expected  to ensure it was responsible to lend and that the loans would be 
affordable for Ms L.
Our adjudicator said she couldnt say it was unfair for Satsuma to provide loans 1-4 but she 
said that loan 5 shouldnt have been provided  to Ms L. By loan 5 Ms Ls pattern  of borrowing 
suggested shed  become  persistently reliant  on short-term lending.
Satsuma did not respond  and as the parties have not reached agreement following the 
adjudicators view the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN02758662the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms L could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ls complaint. I agree with the adjudicator that loan 5 
shouldnt have been given. I will explain  why.
As our adjudicator explained, early  on in the relationship  I think Satsuma had done enough. I 
think its checks were  proportionate and from the information about  Ms Ls income and her 
expenditure theres nothing from the information which makes me think that Satsuma would 
have been alerted to the possibility the loans were  unaffordable.  So, I cant  say it was unfair 
for Satsuma  to give Ms L loans 1-4.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Ms L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ls case,  I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
At this point Satsuma  ought to have realised  Ms L was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms L had taken out 5 loans within 22 months and Ms L had been 
indebted to Satsuma for all that time save for a few small  gaps in between. So, 
Satsuma ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms L was having  to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Ms Ls indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN02758663Ms Ls first loan was for £150.00 and loan 5 was for £300.00. So, it doesnt seem  
likely that Ms Ls need for cash was reducing  which also points to her having  a 
longer-term need for funds. So, at this point Satsuma ought  to have known that Ms L 
was not likely borrowing  to meet a temporary  shortfall in her income  but to meet  an 
ongoing need. 
Loan 5 was provided to Ms L within six days of her settling  loan 4. This was the 
shortest gap between her loans since she began her lending relationship with 
Satsuma. 
Ms L wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Satsuma. Loan 5 was 
taken out almost twenty-two  months  after Ms Ls first. And it was for double  the 
amount. Ms L had paid large  amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to 
Satsuma over an extended period.
I think that Ms L lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ls indebtedness  by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Ms L borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Ms Ls ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5 and Satsuma should  put things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
Satsuma shouldnt have  given Ms L loan 5. 
I understand that loan 5 is outstanding. If that is the case and Satsuma has sold this 
outstanding debt, it must buy it back and then take the following  steps.  If it is unable  to buy 
back this debt, it must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results set out below: 
a)Satsuma must  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on loan 5 and 
treat any repayments made by Ms L as though they had been repayments  of the 
principal on loan 5. If this results in Ms L having made overpayments,  Satsuma should  
refund those overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen to the date the complaint is settled. **
b)If however, after carrying out the above, there is still an outstanding balance,  Satsuma 
must agree an affordable  repayment  plan with Ms L. It must not pursue an outstanding 
balance of principal  it has already written off.
 
c)The overall pattern  of borrowing for loan 5 means that any information recorded  about it 
is adverse. Satsuma must remove this loan entirely from Ms Ls credit file. It does not 
have to remove loan 5 until it has been  repaid, but it must still remove any adverse 
information recorded about it. 
Ref: DRN02758664*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to deduct tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms L a certificate showing how much  tax has been  deducted, if she asks for one.
** I understand  Ms L may still be in an IVA and her IVA practitioner may still have an interest 
in any award Ms L is given. Ms L will be aware of her obligations  under that arrangement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ls complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Ms L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020. 
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0275866