K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about the service  she received  from Metro Bank PLC (MB) in relation to 
her bank account.
background
Ms B says MB hasnt  helped her to recover an unauthorised  payment  of around £2,700 
made from her account to a third party organisation that Ill call Business A. And she says it 
has wrongly charged her fees for unpaid direct debits that shed already cancelled.
Our investigator thought Ms Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said she hadnt given MB 
the information it needed to raise a chargeback on her behalf.  And he hadnt seen any 
information confirming  Ms B had cancelled the direct debits  before  they were  presented  for 
payment.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She gave us a web link to an article  she 
said showed MB should have refunded the money she said Business A had fraudulently 
claimed under a continuous payment arrangement (CPA) she said shed cancelled  before 
the payment was due to be made to that business.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain  why.
I see Ms B had a lot of contact with MB about the payment to Business A and I see MB told 
her it didnt have enough  information to raise a chargeback on her behalf. I also see it asked 
her on several occasions in letters  emails  and phone calls for documentation showing that 
this payment was unauthorised. And I see MB told Ms B it needed this information to be able 
to raise a chargeback on her behalf through  the relevant global card organisation within the 
120 day time limit for such claims.  But MB says Ms B didnt provide the requested  
information, so the chargeback wasnt raised. 
A bank  doesnt  need to raise a chargeback  if it doesnt  have  information  indicating theres a 
reasonable chance of it being successful. And I think MB was right to conclude the 
information it had asked Ms B to provide was of critical importance to her claim. So, I think  
MB was reasonable  to conclude that without this information a chargeback  was unlikely to 
succeed, so it wasnt  appropriate to raise  one.  
I note Ms B has given  us information about CPAs and shes said the payment to Business A 
was made  under a CPA that she cancelled before the payment was due to be made.  But MB 
has given us information indicating the payment  to Business A was taken as an individual 
card payment and not as part of a CPA. And it has said even if it had been a CPA,  it didnt 
receive an instruction  from Ms B to cancel it before the payment was made  to Business A. 
So, taking all the available information into account, Im not able to uphold this aspect of    
Ms Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN02368112I see Ms B is also unhappy about the fees MB has charged her for direct debits that were 
returned unpaid  due to there being insufficient funds in her account. And I see these resulted 
in MB charging Ms B £150 fees in July 2019.
Ms B has told us shed  previously cancelled these direct debits, but MB says it has no record 
of this taking place. But it has agreed to reduce the fees it has charged Ms B by £75 as a 
gesture of goodwill. I cant conclude MB had information indicating the direct debits had 
been cancelled  when it returned them as unpaid.  And I think its gesture of goodwill is 
reasonable, in the circumstances.  
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Ms Bs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Ms Bs complaint  against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0236811