K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mr G bring a complaint on behalf of K, a limited company.  They  are unhappy 
because they say Lloyds Bank PLC failed to provide  a copy of Ks overdraft facility letter 
when Mr A asked for it.  
background
The nature of Ks business means it needs  a licence  to operate. Mr A says he phoned 
Lloyds asking for a copy of his overdraft facilities letter because he had a public inquiry  
coming up in relation  to driver conduct  and financial standing. He says Lloyds didnt send  the 
letter and this led to the licensing body making the decision that K didnt have financial 
standing and revoking the licence. 
Mr A has provided a copy of the decision, dated 2 October 2018. It refers  to a hearing  having 
taken place in relation  to issues of financial standing and good repute. It confirms  Mr A was 
disqualified from holding  an operators licence for a period of five years. Mr A and Mr G were 
issued with a formal warning in relation to the need  to comply with drivers hours rules.
Mr A made a complaint to Lloyds  about  the letter  not being  provided and because he said 
Lloyds hadnt  stopped  a cheque as hed requested. Lloyds looked  into what had happened  
and upheld the complaint  in part. They explained  there was no record  of the cheque having 
been stopped by Mr A which is why the cheque was cleared. And they said it was a debit 
card transaction which had taken K over its overdraft limit. However, they offered £150 
compensation because they agreed  the overdraft facility letter hadnt been sent. Mr A 
doesnt think this is enough given the impact on Ks business as he was now going to have 
to place it into liquidation. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She obtained a number of calls from Lloyds 
and concluded  Mr A hadnt asked for the facility letter  until after the hearing  had taken place. 
And, in any event, she didnt think there was a clear  link between  the letter not having been 
provided and the licences  being revoked. She was also satisfied with the explanation Lloyds 
provided in relation to the cheque because there  was no record  of Mr A stopping the cheque. 
Mr A asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that hed called Lloyds  before  
the hearing took place and provided  a chain of emails from his telephone provider. He also 
said, in summary, that its for the licensing  body  to decide what is sufficient to demonstrate 
financial standing and in Ks case they needed the facility letter.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds acknowledges  it didnt send the facility  letter  to Mr A in October 2018. So the key 
issues for me to consider  are if Mr A asked for a copy of the letter before the hearing and 
whether failing to produce the letter led to the licensing body  making the decision that K 
didnt have financial standing. Im not persuaded thats what is most likely  to have happened 
because: 
Ref: DRN02423312Mr A has provided a spreadsheet showing some calls to a Lloyds number in July, 
August and November. In his complaint form, Mr A said hed initially  asked for the 
letter on or around the 24 September.  Theres no record  of a call on or around  that 
date, even on Mr As spreadsheet. I also note that when Mr A spoke to Lloyds in 
October, after the hearing had taken  place, he made no mention of having  asked  for 
the letter before.  And later on in the call Mr A refers  to just having asked for the letter 
that day. So the tone and content of the conversation  makes  me think its most  likely 
this was the first time he asked for the facility  letter.  And this was after the hearing  
had taken place
In any event Im not persuaded  there is a sufficient link between  Lloyds not providing  
the letter and the outcome of the public inquiry.  The decision Mr A has provided 
refers to financial  standing and it doesnt  specifically refer to the facility letter. I also 
note in the calls with Lloyds Mr A explained there  were two CCJs in place against K. 
This call took place shortly after the hearing and at that time the CCJs hadnt been 
satisfied. Mr A was looking to obtain  a charge card with a limit of £25 000 for the 
purpose of proving  his financial standing. Lloyds werent able to assist him with this 
due to the CCJs. And, I can see from the account terms  and conditions, that Lloyds 
had the right to remove the overdraft at any point  in time, without notice. Taking  all of 
this information  into account I think its unlikely the lack of a facility letter directly led 
to the decision  on financial  standing not going Ks way.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ks complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr A and Mr G, on behalf of K, to accept  or reject my decision before 
20 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0242331