K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about repairs undertaken to his boiler under a policy he took out with British  
Gas Insurance  Limited (British Gas).
background
In November 2017, Mr K became aware of a fault with his boiler, when three radiators 
stopped working.  He contacted British  Gas and took out a Homecare policy. British  Gas then 
attended Mr Ks property and identified a broken wire and a leak that had soaked the boiler  
electrics.
An engineer  returned the next day, repaired the leak and re-filled the system. Mr K says that 
within three hours the heating and hot water stopped working.  Another  engineer  attended 
and said he could not access the boiler.  Another engineer  attended and identified a fault with 
the fan. At this stage Mr K was told that he was no longer covered under the policy.
Mr K believes that the first engineer damaged  the boiler, causing it to breakdown. He points 
out that the boiler had been working since 2011  and it only stopped working  after the first 
visit from British Gas.  Mr K had the boiler replaced at his own expense  in December and 
would like to be reimbursed for this. Mr K has provided a letter from the business that carried  
out that replacement, which says the boiler,  . . . may have developed this fault after the 
replacement of the wiring  harness to the fan. Mr K also complains that he received poor 
customer service  from British Gas.
British Gas rely upon the worksheets completed by their engineers, which  identify the cause 
of the breakdown as a significant  pre-existing  leak, which damaged  the electrical 
components. They  dont accept that the boiler broke  down because of any error on their part. 
But they do accept  there were delays responding to Mr Ks concerns, for which they offered 
£200 in compensation. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought there was insufficient evidence  to 
show that the problems with the boiler  were caused  by British Gas engineer. On balance,  
she thought British Gas did nothing wrong  in relying  upon their engineers evidence. So she 
didnt ask British  Gas to do anything more.
 
Mr K disagrees with the view, he remains adamant that British Gas caused  the boiler to 
breakdown. Mr K would  like British Gas to pay for the replacement and to compensate  his 
family for being  without heating for three  weeks. The matter has now come  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this was a stressful time for Mr K and I can see that the boiler broke down  after 
the first engineers  visit. But it doesnt necessarily follow  that the breakdown  was caused by 
something the engineer did. British Gas engineer said that a significant leak had soaked the 
electrics, which  likely caused  the breakdown. Ive looked to see whether British  Gas reached 
a fair and reasonable decision about  the cause of damage being a pre-existing leak.
Ref: DRN03544612When the boiler was first inspected it was turned off and was recorded as being  at risk.  
Parts were ordered. The following day some wiring was replaced but signs of leaking inside 
the boiler and rust were  identified  and recorded,  suggesting historic  damage. On the next 
visit access to the boiler was recorded as being  not to the manufacturers  instruction, but 
again signs of leakage were recorded and the condense connection  needed replacing. The 
boiler pressure gauge was inoperable. The boiler  was recorded as being at risk. Later the 
boiler was again said to be unsuitable  for contract  due to its position and access and the 
pressure gauge was inoperable.  
The letter Mr K relies  upon says that a fault may have developed  after replacement  of the 
wiring harness to the fan. The letter doesnt  say the fault is more  likely to have been  caused 
by this work,  so it isnt as persuasive  as the consistent evidence from British Gas engineers.  
And whilst I understand  that Mr K believes the breakdown was down to British  Gas, I havent 
seen anything else to show  that it is more likely than not that the breakdown was caused by 
British Gas engineers.  So in my view British Gas reached a fair and reasonable decision 
about the cause of the breakdown, on the basis of the evidence  available  to them.  
Under the terms of the Home Care  agreement,  British Gas were entitled to cancel  the policy 
as the cause of damage was a pre-existing leak. Ive seen that Mr K received a refund for 
the monies hed paid.
British Gas apologised to Mr K for the delay  in dealing with the issues  he raised  and they 
offered £200 to compensate for this. I think that was a fair offer, so its now up to Mr K to 
decide whether  or not to accept it. British Gas have confirmed that they are still offering 
£200. I wont be asking  British Gas to do anything  more.
my final decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr K, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint. It 
is now up to Mr K to decide whether or not to accept £200 from British  Gas Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354461