K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Standard Life Assurance  Limited transferred his entire  pension  pot to an 
annuity provider,  rather than the £15,000 he requested, and hes lost out financially.
background
Mr H held a pension policy with Standard  Life. In mid-July 2016 he telephoned it as he 
wanted to access  money  from his pension pot. He was told the value of his pension as at the 
date of the call was £61,865.74 but that it could go up and down in value.  During the call he 
was told he would need to upgrade his pension to a more flexible type in order to access his 
money in the way he wanted. 
It was also necessary for Standard Life to carry out a calculation to see if Mr H could access 
more than 25% of his pension pot as tax-free cash.  It turned out not to be possible, so in 
early August  a telephone appointment was made for him on 24 August to speak with a 
Standard Life consultant  about his options.  
On 24 August 2016 Mr H spoke with the Standard Life consultant. He was told that the value 
of his pension  pot on that day was £60,154. Mr H agreed to transfer his pension  pot to 
another pension  with Standard Life. He asked to be paid his tax-free cash,  and agreed  to the 
balance of the monies to be invested  in the annuity  pension purchase fund, as he planned to 
set up a guaranteed income  within the next five years. Mr H and the consultant discussed 
the fact that once the new pension was set up Mr H wanted  to use £15,000 of the pot to buy 
an annuity. 
On 6 September 2016 the transfer from one Standard  Life pension to another  was 
completed. The transfer value on that day was £60,249.32.  Mr H was paid a tax-free  lump  
sum of £15,062.33, leaving a balance of £45,169.99.  This was invested  in units in the F9 
annuity purchase fund in line with Mr Hs instructions  on 24 August. 
On 23 January 2017 Standard Life received a request from Provider C to transfer £15,000  to 
it. The transfer was completed the same day, but the whole of Mr Hs pension pot was sent 
in error.  The amount transferred was £41,532.81. This was the value of the units Mr H held 
in the F9 annuity purchase fund that day. This meant that between 6 September  and 
23 January 2017  his investment had declined in value by £3,637.18.
Provider C set up an annuity  and began paying it to Mr H. In early  July 2017 Mr H wrote to 
Standard Life querying information  hed received from Provider  C that said the balance  of his 
pension fund had been around  £41,000  when he bought  the annuity. He said this was a 
discrepancy of some  £4,000. He asked for an explanation of this and as to why he was 
receiving an annuity  of £130  per month  on a sum of £15,000 from Provider C. 
On 3 August  2017 Standard Life wrote to Mr H saying the whole of his pension pot had been 
transferred to Provider C in error and that it was paying an income based on that. Once  
Standard Life received  some further  information  from Provider  C, it would write with options 
to deal with the error. 
On 15 August Standard Life wrote again,  giving Mr H three options:
(a) To leave the funds where  they were with Provider C; 
Ref: DRN06211352(b) To return  all income paid to date back to Provider C. It would retain £15,000 of 
the monies transferred, and pay the correct income  backdated  to January 2017. 
Provider C would  also send the remaining £26,432.81  (the balance) back  to 
Standard Life and his policy with it would  be reinstated. (Note from ombudsman   In 
my view the reference to £26,432.81 is an error by Standard Life. It should  be £26, 
532.81 to reflect the £41,532.81 that was transferred to Provider C, less the £15,000 
to be retained);  and
(c) Provider C would return the balance to Standard Life and offset the past annuity  
overpayment against future income due under the annuity. Under this option Mr H 
would receive no income  payments for 14 months  whilst  the overpayments were 
clawed back. 
By letter dated 14 August, but clearly  finished and sent after that date since it referred to 
Standard Lifes  letter dated 15 August, Mr H said he would settle for option (c) but wanted a 
breakdown showing  how the non-receipt of income  for 14 months had been calculated. He 
also wanted the fall in value under  the annuity  purchase fund explained. 
Mr H sent a follow up request for the explanation on 31 August 2017. Standard Life replied 
the same  day, saying  that the fluctuations  in value were due to movements in the fund price. 
It told him the fund he had been invested in. It said he would have  to contact Provider  C 
about how the overpayment clawback had been calculated. It enclosed  a table showing the 
value of his policy at dates ranging  from 09/09/16  (just after the transfer from his previous 
pension policy to his new Standard Life pension policy) to 20/01/17 (just before the transfer 
to Provider C).
On 14 March 2018 Standard Life wrote to Mr H, saying that it understood Provider  C had 
given him the breakdown of the overpayment clawback and Provider  C needed his 
agreement to that before it could send the funds back to Standard  Life. 
On 24 May 2018 Provider C wrote to Mr H saying  that it was still waiting to hear from him on 
how he wished to proceed. If it did not receive  a response within two weeks it would continue 
with his annuity payments using the full amount received from Standard Life. 
On 29 May 2018 Mr H wrote to Standard  Life saying  that he still required an explanation  of 
the fall in value of his fund, which he calculated as being £4,467.19. This was calculated 
based on what he said was the £61,000 value of his pension pot when he requested a 
drawdown in June 2016. He said that he had lost a considerable amount from his pension 
fund because of Standard  Lifes fundamental error. 
Standard Life decided to treat the May 2018  letter from Mr H as a complaint. On 26 July it 
sent its response. Standard Life said that the reduction in value was due to the market  
movement of the investment fund and not due to the mistake it made in transferring his 
pension in full. However it offered him £350  compensation  for that mistake.  It also said that 
once it received the monies back from Provider  C it would  apply  this back  to his plan as at 
23 January 2017  (which  was the date of transfer  to Provider C). It said this would ensure he 
was in the position he wouldve been  in had the initial error not happened.  
Standard Life sent a follow up letter on 13 August 2018 asking Mr H how he wanted to 
proceed. Mr H replied on 14 August. He rejected the offer of £350, calling it derisory as hed 
sent three letters and didnt  get a reply  until hed asked  our service to intervene.  He also 
wasnt satisfied with the explanation given for the decline in value. He said the stock  market 
had increased  during  that time. He also had some  questions  about the amounts currently 
Ref: DRN06211353invested at Standard Life and Provider  C, and the opening value of his investment with 
Standard Life.
Standard Life replied on 17 August. It gave the value  of Mr Hs investment in the fund as at 
6 September 2016 (the date the new policy commenced)  and as at 23 January 2017 (the 
date of the transfer of the monies to Provider  C). It said that when hed set up his new 
Standard Life pension hed opted  to invest 100% in the Standard  Life annuity purchase fund 
after his tax free cash had been  paid. The unit price for the fund fell by 8.5% between those 
two dates. It said this was due to normal  market  movements  in bond prices. It explained that 
the fund invests  in long-term UK government gilts and doesnt invest in shares, so stock  
market movements have  no effect  on its performance. That fund had now closed, but if he 
had still been  invested he would have  been told Standard Life intended  to move his monies 
to the SL Annuity Targeting Pension Fund.  That fund had the same strategy and aims. 
Standard Life also repeated that when the balance with Provider C is sent back  Mr H would 
be put in the same position as if the transfer had never happened. It said it had replied to 
every letter hed sent. Finally, it said it couldnt  wait indefinitely for the return  of the monies 
from Provider C. Mr H was asked to arrange with Provider C for the return  of the monies by 
31 August if that was the option  he wished to proceed with. 
Mr H replied on 20 August saying he would be referring the matter back to the ombudsman 
service. 
Our investigator thought that Standard Lifes explanation for the drop in value was correct.  
And she didnt think that the mistake Standard Life made in transferring Mr Hs whole fund 
ultimately affected what the value of his fund would otherwise have been. She thought  if 
Standard Life had only transferred £15,000  the remainder of his fund wouldve reduced 
anyway because of unit price fluctuations. She thought  the offer of £350 compensation was 
fair in the circumstances. This was because Standard Life have said that once Mr H confirms 
with Provider C that he wants to return the money Standard Life will adjust the value as at 
the date of the transfer . Because of this Mr H wont  have lost out financially so she doesnt 
think Standard  Life need do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree. He wanted to know where his funds were invested  between August 24 
2016 and January 23 2017 to lose nearly  £4,000. 
The complaint came to me for decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr H is very unhappy  that his pension  pot 
was worth less than he thought it should  be at the time it was transferred to Provider C. 
Thats understandable.  But Im afraid Im going  to have to disappoint him, as I wont be 
asking Standard Life to do anything more  than what it has offered.
In my view there are three parts to Mr Hs complaint:
(a)That Standard  Life incorrectly transferred  his whole  pension pot to Provider C rather  
than the £15,000 requested.
(b)That during  the time the monies were with Provider C hed lost out, as the monies  
werent being invested, and
Ref: DRN06211354(c)That prior to the transfer of the pension pot to Provider C, his pot had lost nearly 
£4,000 in value when  it shouldnt  have. 
Fundamentally Mr H wants to understand what has happened to reduce the value of his 
pension pot and to be compensated for that. And he wants to understand what  will happen if 
the balance of the pension pot is returned  by Provider C to Standard Life. 
Theres no doubt that Standard Life made  an error in transferring the whole of Mr Hs 
pension pot to Provider C. Its admitted  this, and offered Mr H £350 compensation for his 
inconvenience and some options going forward. On 14 August  2017 Mr H told Standard Life 
he would  accept the option  where the balance of his pension pot was transferred  from 
Provider C back to Standard Life. Provider  C would offset the overpayment against  the 
income due. Once  the overpayment had been  clawed  back Mr H would begin receiving 
income from Provider C again.  
I think Standard  Life couldve  been clearer as to what would happen  when the balance of the 
pension pot was returned by Provider C to it. I dont think  Mr H wouldve understood from 
what it said that Standard Life would put him in the position he wouldve been in if the 
transfer had never occurred. It wasnt until its email of 26 July 2018 that Standard  Life 
clarified this. It said that 
Once we have received the payment back from [Provider C] we will apply this back to 
your plan as at 23 January 2017, the date your plan had been fully transferred. This 
will ensure  you are in the position you would have been in had the initial  error not 
happened. 
I understand this to mean that once it receives  the balance of the pension pot from Provider 
C it will calculate what the balance  should be if it had been  left invested with Standard  Life 
from 23 January 2017 to the date of return of the monies. This would reflect  the movements 
of the unit price from that time to the date of return. This would be on the basis  that the 
monies were  invested in the Standard Life Annuity Purchase Fund and then Standard Life 
Annuity Targeting  Pension Fund  after the annuity purchase fund was closed. 
In my view, this offer from Standard Life deals with Mr Hs concern  that hes lost money 
during the time his funds  have been  with Provider  C, because  the balance of Mr Hs pension 
pot will be treated as if it was invested once it is sent back  to Standard  Life. So the balance  
of the pot wont  have  been interrupted part of the way through  a longer-term investment 
which can go down as well as up in value during that time. Whilst its possible that the 
transfer back of the funds  could result in it losing  further value they could also have  
recovered to some extent  from the earlier fall. Either way, Mr H will just be getting the 
performance of the fund hed originally agreed to invest in. 
It appears that it wasnt until he received the paperwork about  his annuity from Provider C 
that Mr H realised the amount of money that had been transferred to it. He is concerned  
about the considerable drop in its value between June and August 2016 and the time of 
transfer in January 2017. He doesnt accept the explanation given by Standard Life. 
Ive looked very carefully at the evidence provided  by Standard  Life. It has provided screen  
shots of the value of Mr Hs pension pot at as 6 September  2016  (the day Mr Hs new 
pension with Standard Life began) and 22 January 2017 (the date before the transfer of his 
pension pot from Standard Life to Provider  C). The value  as at 6 September  was £45,186.99 
 this represented an investment in the Standard  Life annuity  purchase fund of 100% of the 
Ref: DRN06211355value of the remaining pension pot, after Mr H had taken his tax free cash. At 6 September 
the unit price was 254.685236 pence and at 22 January it was 233.85537  pence. Thus  there 
had been a decline in the unit price of around 8% and a corresponding drop in the overall 
value of the pension pot. 
I was puzzled  by the reference in the screenshot to the Standard  Life at Retirement 
(Multi Asset Univ) Pn (F9) as this did not seem  to align with the fund that Standard Life had 
said Mr H was invested in. However I note from material on Standard  Lifes  website that the 
Standard Life Annuity  Purchase Fund (F9) changed its name  to the one shown on the 
screenshot in late 2017. So even though the screenshots are for time periods before the 
name changed, it would appear  it has changed in the Standard Life system even for earlier 
time periods. In other words, Im satisfied that despite the change in name on the 
screenshot, this is the fund Mr H was invested  in between 6 September  2016  and 
23 January 2017,  when  the whole of the pot was transferred to Provider C. 
Mr H says that there shouldnt have  been a decline in the value  of his pension  pot, as the 
stock market improved  over the period.  But this would  only be relevant if Mr Hs pension  pot 
had been meant to be invested in the stock market. And it wasnt.  Standard Life said that the 
decline it was due to normal market movement in bond prices. The question I need  to ask is 
whether Mr Hs pension  pot was invested  in accordance  with his instructions to Standard  
Life, and whether the values accurately represent  the value of his pension pot at the 
commencement of his new pension policy and just before the transfer to Provider  C. 
Im satisfied that it was invested in accordance with his instructions. Ive listened  carefully to 
the telephone call between Mr H and Standard Life on 24 August 2016 in which  Mr H agreed 
to his monies being invested in the annuity  purchase  fund in his new Standard  Life pension. 
This came about because  Mr H was given a do it yourself option in the call to select  from 
300 funds, or a ready made  option based  on three filter questions. Mr H indicated that he 
didnt feel confident selecting  from a range  of funds and preferred the ready  made option. 
For the filter questions, he answered  that he was intending to buy annuities with all of his 
remaining funds within the next five years   Standard Lifes ready-made fund for this option 
was the annuity purchase  fund. The call handler  read from the factsheet that this fund was 
almost entirely invested in government bonds  and explained where Mr H could read the 
factsheet to get any further information. And that is what Standard  Life invested his pension 
pot in when the transfer was completed on 6 September 2016.  Ive no reason to think that 
the screenshots provided dont accurately represent  the value of his pension pot at those  
dates. 
Mr H is unhappy his pension pot has lost value.  But its not necessary for me to consider 
whether the fund selected was suitable  for Mr H given his detailed circumstances and 
objectives. This is because Standard Life was only guiding him towards  a broadly 
appropriate sort of fund to invest his pension pot in, based on his answer to a question about 
whether he would buy annuities with all of his funds within five years. 
Again, its plain from the telephone calls between Mr H and Standard Life that Mr H accepted 
that Standard  Life wasnt  making a specific recommendation as to investment choice based 
on any more information about him than this answer. So Mr H was accepting responsibility 
for his own investment decision. 
Im satisfied that the annuity purchase  fund was broadly an appropriate  fund to direct people 
to who answered this filter question.  It invests largely in the same assets  government 
bonds  that underpin the income an annuity provider such as Provider C would be paying 
Ref: DRN06211356Mr H in due course. The values of government bonds do rise and fall, although typically  not 
as much as the stock  market, and they do provide  a fixed income  which is why they tend to 
be relied on for annuity investments. It can be viewed as unfortunate  that over the period 
Mr H was initially invested in this fund, it did suffer more of a fall than might reasonably have 
been anticipated. It appears the markets (including  bond markets) had become unusually 
turbulent at that time, but that doesnt  mean Standard Life did anything wrong in managing 
the annuity purchase fund in line with its investment mandate which,  as he was told in the 
call, was almost entirely in UK government bonds.
Standard Life was not in a position  to ensure the annuity purchase fund didnt lose money in 
all circumstances.  And Mr H was told during  the 24 August 2016 phone calls that this was a 
medium risk fund which could go up as well as down significantly,  and that it was his 
responsibility to manage his investment.  At any time Mr H couldve switched his pension  pot 
to another fund if he wasnt  happy with its performance. I could tell from the call that Mr H 
had a short  timeframe  in which to complete the application, but Im mindful  that he could  
have reviewed the funds he was invested  in when he had more  time or if his objectives  
changed. In these circumstances it wouldnt be fair to hold Standard Life responsible for the 
loss in value of the pension pot between September 2016 and January 2017.
As Ive said earlier, theres  no doubt that Standard Life made a mistake in transferring the 
whole of Mr Hs pension  pot to Provider C. Its offered £350 for Mr Hs inconvenience.  I think 
this is a fair offer and although I know it will disappoint Mr H and Im sorry for that, I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  further.
Standard Life have informed me that Mr H is still able to ask Provider C to transfer back  to 
Standard Life the incorrectly transferred monies (the £26, 532.81) if he wishes to and that 
the funds will be invested as if they had remained invested with Standard  Life throughout the 
whole period. This could result in an increase or a decrease in value.  But it would put Mr H in 
the position he wouldve been in if the incorrect transfer hadnt occurred. Mr H should 
contact Standard Life promptly to indicate whether  or not he wishes  to proceed to transfer 
the monies back. I wouldnt expect Standard Life to hold the offer open indefinitely. And Id 
expect Mr H to do what is necessary to allow Provider C to return  the monies, if that is the 
option he proceeds with. If Mr H no longer wishes to proceed  with the return  of the monies, 
the amount will remain  invested with Provider  C, who will pay him an annuity on the whole  
amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that Standard Life Assurance  Limited must pay Mr H £350 in total for his 
distress and inconvenience. To be clear, if it has already paid Mr H £350 it need not pay 
anything further.  If Mr H notifies it within one month of the end of the time limit below that he 
wishes to proceed with the option  he previously selected, then it must do so. In other words, 
it must  reinvest the £26,532.81 returned  by Provider  C, using a reinvestment date of 
23 January 2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Ref: DRN06211357Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0621135