K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs W payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Mr and Mrs W aware that the PPI was an option, but that 
they still chose  to take it. I have seen a copy of the application form, which Mr and Mrs W 
signed. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. This means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based  on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Ws situation at the time.  Its likely Mr and Mrs W were  eligible for the policy. 
And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs W received any employer sick 
pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to 
any redundancy pay. And, from what theyve said, they didnt  have savings they could 
fall back on. So this all would  have put Mr and Mrs W in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest they couldnt  afford the PPI when they took it out. So I think the 
PPI would have  been potentially useful,  and so a recommendation  was suitable. It would 
then be up to Mr and Mrs W to decide  whether they wanted  to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear  information about the costs 
would have affected whether Mr and Mrs W took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would  have been affected by any of these. And 
theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel  it at any time without further cost if 
their situation changed.
Ref: DRN06840422my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0684042