K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains HSBC Bank UK Plc will not refund some transactions  on his account which 
he says he did not make or authorise.
background
Mr W complained  about three  transactions on his account which he said he did not 
recognise.  One transaction was made in December 2018, the other  two in January 2019.   
All three were for online transactions and merchants  which  Mr W had made orders  from in 
the past.  All  three transactions were  verified by Visa and the middle transaction required the 
verified by Visa password to be entered.
Mr W complained  on 22nd January 2019  and HSBC said it would carry out an investigation.
In a conversation  with the investigator, HSBCs notes record Mr W said the following: 
-no-one else has access to his card or secure  details,  including password
-he hadnt responded to any suspicious emails
-and he hadnt  contacted the merchants involved
HSBC did not uphold his complaint.  In its final response to Mr W, issued in March  2019, it 
said it was holding him liable for the transactions.  In  summary, it said:
-the device  used to make  the first transaction was the same  used by Mr W for genuine 
transactions he had carried  out
-the verified by Visa password  had been  reset and then used. To do this, a fraudster 
required knowledge of Mr Ws secure information
-if a fraudster had in fact gained access to Mr Ws account,  it would expect  them to 
have used the funds up as quickly as possible.   In Mr Ws case, the transactions 
were some three weeks apart
-although Mr W had now said he had approached the relevant retailers and the orders 
were not sent to him or his address, HSBC did not think this was significant as its 
earlier points could  not be reasonably explained.
So, Mr W came to this service and asked that we investigate his complaint.
He told us he now recalled an email he had received in December 2018 which, on reflection, 
was a fraudulent  email,  asking him to update  his payment details for his television licence.  
He had tried to enter his details three times   including  digits from his password.   On each 
occasion, he said he must have entered different digits which  would have allowed the 
fraudsters to gather details of his full password.
Mr W had reported this to the police and provided us with a crime reference number.
But our investigator didnt think he could ask HSBC  to do anymore.   He explained this to Mr 
W and the matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN01090152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking HSBC to refund these transactions.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests Mr W made or authorised these transactions, 
then HSBC is entitled to hold him liable for them.  The relevant rules  say this.  And its for 
HSBC to show Mr W authorised them rather than for Mr W to show  he didnt.  
Authorisation is a two-stage  process.  It includes authentication  and consent.   Authentication 
is the process of a specific  payment  instrument  being verified.  So,  in this case, I have seen  
the evidence that Mr Ws card details were  used, along with his verified  by Visa password.
I also need to be satisfied, however, Mr W consented to these payments  and for very 
much the same reasons as the investigator, I am so satisfied. In fact, Im not sure I can add 
much to what he has already said to Mr W - but I will summarise as follows:
-the device  used for the transactions was the one registered to Mr W and one he had 
used before.  There is no explanation as to how an unknown fraudster was able to 
access his device,  make the transaction and then return  the device without Mr W 
realising. Mr W confirmed he lived at home with his wife and young child and neither 
could have carried these out without his authorisation;
-knowledge of Mr Ws secure password was required in order  to complete 
transactions two as the verified  by Visa password was reset.   Again, a fraudster 
would need access  to this information  in order to reset  the password;
-if, as Mr W suggests, he had entered his password into the fraudulent TV licence 
email, then the fraudsters would  have known his password and there would  be no 
need to reset it for transaction number  two;
-Mr W accepted he logged onto his online banking  during the disputed  transactions.   I 
think its likely he would have seen the December transaction  when he did so;
-Mr W also said he wouldnt have  made  transaction number three  (a payment to a 
supermarket) because  he was due to leave the UK two days later and was due to be 
away for 12 days.  Yet there are transactions on his account in the following week 
which suggest he was still in the UK and near his home address;
-the time between transactions number  one and two are some weeks apart.  I think,  
on balance, it seems  unlikely a fraudster, who had managed  to access  Mr Ws 
account, would not use the opportunity to drain the account as soon as possible.
So, based  on the above, I wont be asking  HSBC to refund this money to Mr W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0109015