K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs R took out a mortgage  in 1993  and she took out PPI to protect her mortgage monthly 
repayments in 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mrs R didnt agree with our adjudicators view. Mrs R mainly says she didnt know that the 
policy was optional and that this was never  explained or made clear to her. She also told us 
that she had a job with excellent  work  benefits so she wouldnt have chosen to have  PPI if 
shed been given the choice. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Halifax cant tell us how the policy was sold. Normally, Id look at the paperwork to show 
whats likely to have happened at the time and how the PPI was likely  to have been 
presented. But Halifax hasnt been able to provide any documents  from when the PPI was 
taken out. 
I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage  account closed around 19 years ago. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to have  kept records about a closed  account  for so long. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mrs R might be able to remember about the sale 
after so long.  
In order to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint Id have to find it likely  that Mrs R wasnt given  a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added  to her mortgage account without her consent. But 
I cant fairly say this based  on the very limited information Ive got. 
As Mrs R took out her mortgage without PPI in the first place, I think  she wouldve 
understood that PPI was an optional extra as she hadnt had to have it when she started  her 
mortgage. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mrs Rs home wouldve been at risk if her mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better protection than she had 
otherwise. So, I can see why she mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  On balance, I think  
its more likely that Mrs R decided she wanted to protect her home by taking  out the PPI 
offered and she decided to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN09723482Mrs R thought shed  taken out the PPI during a meeting.  So, to be as fair as possible to 
Mrs R, Halifax  has looked at this complaint  on the basis that it advised  her to buy the PPI. If 
a financial business  makes a recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure the cover it recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy  information  
in a clear way. 
Mrs R was eligible for the policy and the policy terms  wouldnt have made  it difficult  for her to 
make a claim. Mrs R wasnt affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt cover. So she 
couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered.
PPI wouldve  covered her for accident  or sickness for up to 12 months  per claim. It would be 
very unusual  for someone to be guaranteed  to receive full sick pay for a whole year or more.  
So I think its likely PPI wouldve provided Mrs R with better cover than she couldve been  
sure she wouldve got from her employer. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick 
pay. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult  time if Mrs R 
needed to claim as she mightve  had extra costs if she was ill or disabled. 
As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out in the event Mrs R lost her job unexpectedly  
and was out of work. And repeat claims were  possible  so the policy  provided  Mrs R with long 
term cover  whilst she was paying  her mortgage.
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs R if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
Shes told us that she had no savings. So I think the policy  couldve been  helpful for Mrs R, 
even allowing for her employee  benefits, and on balance I dont think I can fairly say it was 
unsuitable for her or that it was unreasonable of Halifax to recommend it to her
Its possible  the information Halifax gave Mrs R about the PPI costs wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it appears that she chose to take out the policy, when she didnt have to, 
so she seems to have wanted  it. And it seems  to have been affordable for Mrs R at the time 
 she couldve cancelled  the PPI at any time if her circumstances changed or she no longer 
wanted to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs R still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even  if shed been given clearer 
information as it gave her useful protection in her particular situation.
So, looked  at overall, it doesnt appear  that Mrs R has lost out as a result of anything Halifax  
did wrong. This means  it doesnt  need  to do anything to put things right.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Rs comments, including what  shes said about the way 
Halifax dealt with other claims shes made. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits 
- Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case  and what happened on 
other cases doesnt change my conclusion here.   
Ref: DRN09723483my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0972348