K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Nationwide Building  Society gave him incorrect information which  
delayed closing a savings account.
background
Mr S had a regular savings account with Nationwide he wanted  to close,  but he wasnt  able 
to visit his local branch  to do this. Nationwide told him his wife would need  to bring a letter 
and some ID to the branch to be able to close the account on his behalf.
His wife visited the branch  with the letter and ID. Because of the amount in the account, the 
branch needed  to do some additional checks before they could close  the account.  This 
meant that there  was a delay  in closing the account and sending a cheque to Mr S. Mr S 
said this caused  him and his wife serious  frustration and inconvenience.
Our adjudicator found that Nationwide  acted fairly.  She explained that Nationwide  had 
followed the procedures  it had in place to safeguard  its customers. She felt it was 
reasonable for Nationwide  to ask Mr S some security questions to verify his request.
Mrs S has disagreed on her husbands  behalf. She says they followed Nationwides  
instructions and Nationwide misled them  by saying a cheque would be sent the next working 
day, which didnt  happen. She feels that Nationwide changed the rules. Mrs S also feels  
Nationwide has been inconsistent when dealing with a third party of an account  holder. She 
feels that Nationwide doesnt have a process in place for people  like Mr S who is often 
unable to attend or speak to Nationwide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has explained that its possible to request for someone else to make  a 
withdrawal from an account  on a members behalf. This can be done  by providing a letter  
and ID (as Mr S did) or by using  a third party withdrawal form (as Mrs S has since  been 
asked to do). I dont  think that having two options for customers  is inconsistent,  but instead 
gives customers more flexibility. I can understand why Mrs S felt she was being given 
different information  but this doesnt  mean  Nationwide has been  unreasonable in giving her 
two different options  at different times.  
When Mrs S visited the branch, she had a letter from Mr S and his ID as she was told. While 
this was right, Nationwide also needed to speak to Mr S to make sure he wanted his account 
to be closed. Nationwide has explained  that these processes are in place to safeguard their 
customers money so I cant say its done  anything wrong in following their processes.
While Nationwide told Mrs S that a cheque would be sent the following day, they couldnt 
speak to Mr S to verify  his request. This meant  the cheque couldnt be sent on the day they 
said it would  be and I appreciate that this caused Mr and Mrs S some frustration and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN00477502While unfortunate, this was not Nationwide changing the rules, but making  sure the rules  to 
protect Mr Ss money were followed. As explained it has to ensure that its safeguarding  its 
customers money and it felt that the additional  checks were  important  in this situation to 
ensure Mr S wanted  to close his account.
It was also reasonable  that Nationwide couldnt  accept Mrs S answering the security 
questions for Mr S  they needed  to make sure Mr S wanted to close his account and this 
meant they actually needed to speak to him. Once  Nationwide were able to verify that Mr S 
wanted to close  the account, this was done and a cheque sent. While I realise  that this was 
not as fast as Mr and Mrs S wanted,  this does  not mean that Nationwide have done anything  
wrong. I agree with the adjudicator that they acted fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0047750