K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly set up a savings account  in his name rather  
than for his company resulting in a financial loss.
background
The account  was opened in 2016.  Mr L says he found out in 2018 that this was in his name. 
And that it had been funded by a transfer  from his company. This meant that he was liable to 
pay tax on the amount  and has lost £8,000. He says that Lloyds has given him poor advice 
and did not make sure he consented to this. When he complained  he was unhappy to be 
given conflicting  information about  whether  his meeting then was recorded  and to receive 
poor service. Lloyds paid him £25 to reflect this.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that the account 
opening documentation  was in Mr Ls personal name. And Lloyds  had set up a standing 
order to pay interest to the company  account  and said it would have had his instruction to do 
this. When the issue  was identified it had recommended Mr L arrange  his own tax advice.
Mr L did not agree and did not think his points had been considered. He said it was quite 
clear he had been given bad advice.  He said he was seeing  a business advisor at the 
meeting and it was Lloyds job not to mix the accounts up.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the only difference between the personal account  name  for Mr L and that of 
his company is the addition of the word limited. So I fully appreciate the potential for 
confusion. Im addressing a complaint in his personal  name here as he says that he has 
made a loss personally. So I am looking here at what happened to him.  
The savings product in question is not a regulated one. And so Lloyds did not give advice to 
Mr L in a regulatory sense and so recommend it to him. Im afraid  that there is no basis  for 
me to think  that Lloyds  could fairly  be responsible for providing him with any advice on 
taxation or specifically  on his personal  tax position. Lloyds was responsible for making sure 
that Mr L had the relevant information  about the characteristics  of the product itself to make  
his own choice about it. And to answer any related questions he may have had. There  is no 
recording of the meeting  when this was discussed and so I need  to rely on the 
documentation. 
As I read it this was all in Mr Ls name  and signed by him personally. It was not signed on 
behalf of the company. And it stated that the account was operated under Lloyds personal 
banking terms and conditions. The funds  for this account Mr L says came  from the company 
to him personally. And Lloyds says that an arrangement to pay interest back  to the company 
could be made based  on his verbal instructions. This payment was shown on the statements 
for the account  that were  subsequently issued in 2017 and 2018 - again in his personal 
name. 
I dont doubt that had Mr L realised the potential tax implications of him receiving  money 
from the company  he would likely  have decided  not to take this account in his name. But as I 
Ref: DRN05306222say that was not something Lloyds could  fairly  be responsible for. And I dont have a basis to 
find it opened the account in error  in his personal name.
Lloyds says that the complaint was first raised  on 15 October  2018.  And that a final 
response was issued on 18 October 2018  saying the complaint handler had tried but been  
unable to speak  to Mr L. Lloyds says it then based  what it found on what  branch staff had 
reported and documentation about the account.  I know Mr L says he emailed about his 
complaint at 19:30 that same day. A further  response was issued when the complaint 
handler had spoken to Mr L on 22 October  2018  and then took account of what he said 
about the service  in branch and the conflicting  information about whether a recording of the 
meeting was available or not. It paid him £25. I find this to be an adequate response.
I know Mr L will be very disappointed when  I say that I am not going to be asking Lloyds to 
do anything more than it has already.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0530622