K820x#14complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
background
In February 2001  Mr B took out the policy with a loan agreement when buying goods in a 
store. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr B mainly  says that PPI wasnt discussed  with him and the policy  was added  on without 
his knowledge  or consent. Mr B also says he didnt  need PPI and if the policy  had been  
discussed with him, he wouldve declined it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL has given us a copy of Mr Bs application form. The PPI was set out in a separate  box 
on the loan agreement. Mr B has signed  this part of the form to indicate that he wanted  to 
take out PPI. I dont  know exactly  how FICL  explained PPI  but I think it was clear from the 
application he filled in that it was up to Mr B to say if he wanted to take out PPI with his loan. 
Next to where he has signed  it says ONLY SIGN IF YOU  WANT  COVER. I can completely 
understand that Mr B may not remember as this was so long ago. But, based on all the 
information Ive seen, I find that the policy was added to Mr Bs account when he indicated 
that he wanted to have  it. 
I think its likely that FICL  didnt recommend the policy to Mr B. But it still had to give him 
enough clear information  so he could  decide  if he wanted to take it. 
Mr B was eligible for the policy.  The policy  couldve covered his monthly repayments in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment  for up to 12 months per claim - and repeat 
claims were  possible. So this gave Mr B significantly better cover than he would otherwise 
have had if hed just been relying on family to help out if he had money problems as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Mr B couldve  benefitted  from having the policy if he found he was unexpectedly 
unable to work. 
Ref: DRN02822772Ive taken into that account Mr B was self-employed when he took out the PPI. But I dont 
find that it wouldve  been any harder for him to make an unemployment  claim than it 
wouldve been for someone  who was employed. And it doesnt look as if he was affected by 
any of the other main  conditions that mightve  limited the policys  benefits to him. So, even if 
not everything was mentioned, I dont think that knowing more about  things the policy didnt 
cover wouldve made  any difference to Mr Bs decision to take the policy out. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mr B. And he chose 
to take it out when he didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted it at the time, and been 
happy to pay for it, even  if hes forgotten this now. Looked at overall,  given the benefits PPI 
offered Mr B, I think it unlikely  he wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance  I think  he still wouldve taken out the policy.  So, overall,  I dont 
think that Mr B has lost out as a result  of anything FICL mightve  done  wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282277