K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that his credit score based  on data provided by EQUIFAX LIMITED is not 
improving even though he has done  everything that it has recommended.  He complains he 
hasnt been given a clear  explanation of why he has a low score  and why it has decreased.
background
Mr C says that his credit  score was around  220 in June  2017 and then increased to over 300 
in January 2018 but then fell to below 170. He says the Equifax has not provided him with a 
clear explanation as to why his score is so low. He says that he has spent  the last years 
doing what was required of him such as maintaining  his payments and keeping his credit  
card usage  below 50% but his credit  score keeps decreasing.
He says he has contacted Equifax several times  but he hasnt got reasons why his score is 
where it is. He says he doesnt want generic  reasons about what  affects  a credit score as he 
has followed  this advice  and his score hasnt improved. He wants clear answers to explain  
his specific situation.  
Mr C says he has spoken to his bank and it says that, if anything, his credit score  has 
increased not decreased since he opened  his account and that it has nothing  on its records  
that would  affect  this score. 
Equifax set out the factors that can affect  a credit  score. It explained  that the score couldnt  
be seen by lenders  and is intended  as a guide.  It says credit providers will have their own 
lending criteria. It noted that Mr C didnt have  active accounts at his current address and 
instead these  were showing at his previous address which could impact his score.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She explained that we cant  tell Equifax to 
change Mr Cs score  or tell it what the score should be. She noted the information provided  
by Equifax about factors affecting Mr Cs score and said she didnt find anything to suggest 
Equifax had recorded information incorrectly. Because of this she didnt think Equifax had 
done anything  wrong and so didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr C didnt accept out investigators view. He reiterated that he felt no-one had explained 
why his score kept decreasing even though he was following the advice given  to improve  his 
score. He says that because of his credit score he has not been able to access  credit.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
My role is not to tell Equifax how to calculate credit  scores  but to see if Mr C has been  
treated unfairly  in any way or if a mistake has been  made. I understand that Mr C has been 
accessing his credit score through another  company  which provides credit information  using 
Equifaxs data. He is concerned as he feels he is carrying out the actions recommended by 
Ref: DRN06958282Equifax in order to improve his credit score but his score remains  low and has decreased 
from January 2018.
Our investigator spoke  to Equifax  about Mr Cs credit score and was told that his score could 
be affected by a closed bank account  that was defaulted and by the address Mr C registered 
his account with the credit score company.
Mr C confirmed that he was aware of the defaulted  account and while  I note the comments 
he says were made by his bank, I have nothing to suggest the information has been 
recorded incorrectly. If there is a mistake  in the information recorded on Mr Cs credit file he 
would need to contact the lender to have this amended.  This is because Equifax receives 
information from credit providers and this is what it relies on. Any amendments need  to come 
from the information providers although  notes can be added to the credit file when there  is 
data that is in dispute. 
There does appear  to be an issue with Mr Cs address. Equifax says that its records  show  
Mr C is registered on the electoral  roll at his current address. However  this address is not 
listed as his current address by the credit score  company. It feels  that this could have an 
impact on his score. 
I have looked  at the screenshots  Mr C has provided which I understand to be from his March 
2019 report. This records his current address correctly in the electoral roll section however in 
the personal information section the current address is Mr Cs previous address and the 
correct address is then recorded as a previous address. Mr C might need  to contact the 
credit score company to get this amended.
I have also looked  through the other screenshots provided and can see that Mr Cs score  
has remained reasonably  low through the period although I note that it has increased  from 
129 in December  2017 to 215 in March 2019.  This suggests his score is improving.
I can understand why Mr C is upset and feels  he is doing what is required of him to improve 
his credit score. While I have seen  information  Mr C has received from the credit  score 
company I have not seen full credit reports and I understand  that Mr C has not had a report  
direct from Equifax. I have  not been  provided  with any evidence  to say that there is 
information recorded incorrectly on Mr Cs credit report and without this I do not find I can 
say that I have enough evidence to say Equifax has done anything wrong.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but on balance  I do not find I can uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0695828