K820x#14Complaint
Mr P, who complains  on behalf of Mr and Mrs P, is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont  
refund transactions that he says werent authorised.
Background
Between January and February 2018,  nine faster payments via online banking  were made 
from Mr and Mrs Ps account totalling £53,836.43. 
Mr P says that despite the account being  a joint account, he alone managed and used the 
account but didnt authorise these payments. He also says that he was on holiday  at the time 
the transactions were made and didnt have access toor set uponline banking on the 
account. As Mr P claimed that he hadnt  made or authorised the transactions,  he asked 
Santander to refund these.
Santander looked into Mr Ps claim and pointed out that a mobile telephone number was 
registered on the account in 2012  and was used to register  online  banking,  log onto the 
account, check statements, make  an undisputed  payment, change contact information, 
check a card PIN and order a replacement card and chequebook from 2012 through to the 
disputed transactions  being made  in 2018.  
Mr P told Santander that he didnt  own a mobile telephone or computer; and is unable to use 
such devices. He said that he has always done his banking  in branch for these reasons and 
has never set up any online banking facility. He also denied  providing any access to his 
account or security  information to any third party  and said that he had sole access to the 
account despite it being a joint account with his wife.
Santander said that the payments were  authorised  using the genuine online banking  
credentials registered on the account. It also pointed out that a one time passcode (OTP) 
was sent to the registered mobile telephone  number on the account prior to the disputed 
transactions being made to authenticate them. It acknowledged to Mr P that evidence 
suggested that a person close toand  likely  living with himcould have been responsible 
for the transactions.  It didnt disclose the details of this person  for legal reasons but said that 
it would  comply with any information  requests made by the police. It concluded that it was 
unwilling to refund the transactions  as it believed there to be a sufficient association  with 
Mr P, the property he resides  in and the transactions in dispute.
Mr P was unhappy with the rejection of his claim and so he registered a complaint with 
Santander. His complaint  was looked  into and claim reassessed, but Santander didnt 
uphold his complaint for broadly the same  reasons.  It said that in order  to pursue the matter 
further Mr P would need to contact the police.
Mr P remained unhappy  with the result of his claim and complaint, so he came to our service 
to look into things again. An Investigator assessed the evidence provided from both sides 
but thought Santander  didnt need  to do anything more.
Having considered the evidence, he agreed  that it was more  likely than not that Mr P didnt 
authorise the transactions in dispute. But he felt there was sufficient  evidence  to indicate that 
Mr P had provided a third party authority to access his account  via online banking  due to 
previous account  activity.  He therefore  found  that as Mr P had willingly  given this access, he 
couldnt hold Santander liable for the disputed  payments made.
Ref: DRN09422282Mr P didnt agree. He said that Santander had been  informed of his intention to travel abroad 
prior to the transactions taking place. Santander  also contacted  his landline in the UK whilst  
he was away and was told again  that he was abroad.  Despite  this it allowed the transactions  
to go through.  It was reiterated that Mr P is computer illiterate and would be unable  to use 
internet banking to carry out transactions; this is supported by all previous transactions being 
processed in branch  or via the use of his card and chequebook. 
As Mr P didnt agree  with the Investigators assessment of the complaint, the matter  has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) set out that a customer  can 
be held liable for any disputed transactions if that customer authorised those transactions or 
failed to keep  their account  secure.  So, I must first determineon the balance  of 
probabilities if its more likely than not that Mr P authorised the transactions or not.
Santander has evidenced that the payments were authenticated through  the online banking 
details set up on the account.  And the new payee  set-up was further  authenticated  via a one 
time passcode (OTP)  which  was sent to the mobile  telephone number registered on the 
account. Mr P disputes that hed set up online banking as hes unable  to use a computer. He 
also disputes knowledge of the mobile  telephone number registered  on the account as he 
claims not to own a mobile  telephone.
Having seen the brief transactional history provided on the account  prior to disputed 
transactions, I think that this supports Mr Ps testimony that he only banked  in branch and by 
use of his card and chequebook. Ive also seen no evidence to disprove that hes unable  to 
use a computer or that he doesnt  own a mobile telephone. Additionally, there doesnt seem 
to be any dispute  from either party that Mr P was likely abroad at the time the transactions  
were made, and whilst  I acknowledge that internet  protocol (IP) data is unreliable  as it can 
easily be disguised, this seems to support the fact that the transaction  wasnt made outside 
the UK. Im persuadedwhen taking all this into accountthat it does  appear  unlikely that 
Mr P carried  out the transactions  himself. But this doesnt necessarily mean  that that 
Santander should be held liable for the transactions,  as there are other considerations to 
take into account here.
Whilst I dont find it likely  that Mr P carried out the transactions himself, I must explore the 
possibility that he authorised a third party to carry out the transactions on his behalf. I must  
also consider that the account  is jointly held with Mrs P and therefore could have been 
authorised through the other account  holder.  But considering the evidence, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that either of these  scenarios is likely.
I can see that Mr P has reported  the matter to the police and has provided a consistent  
testimony throughout his complaint to both Santander and our service.  Ive also considered  
that whilst  Mrs P is a joint account holder, she hadnt been issued with a card for the 
account. The combination of these  factors persuades me that its unlikely Mr P did provide 
his authority for a third party to carry out the transactions, or that Mrs P had some 
Ref: DRN09422283involvement in the process. Ive also drawn  this conclusion from the absence  of any 
evidence to the contrary.
Taking all the above information into account, I think that its more likely  than not that these 
disputed transactions  werent authorised by the account holders. So, Ive gone on to 
consider the next point; if Mr or Mrs P failed with intent to comply with their obligations  as a 
payment service user, or, had given a third party authority to access  and use their account.
Its clear from evidence  that the person  who had set up and used the online banking  facility 
would have had enough information  about the account holders to do this. And Santander 
has also indicated that technical data of the transactions would suggest that the person  who 
carried these out is close toand likely living withthe account holders. It would be 
reasonable to conclude  then that a person  residing  in the same property, and that knew 
enough personal data about the account holders, would have been able to set up an online 
banking facility. So Ive gone on to consider if this was likely done with or without the 
knowledge of the account holders.
Regulation 72 of the PSRs states  that the payment service user must take all reasonable 
steps to keep safe personalised  security credentials  relating  to the payment  instrument  or an 
account information service.
Additionally, regulation 77 of the PSRs  goes onto say that the payer is liable for all losses  
incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment transaction where the payer has with intent  
or gross negligence failed  to comply with regulation 72. So, I must consider  if in the 
circumstances of this complaint Mr and Mrs P should be held liable for the disputed 
payments under these regulations.
The online banking facility for Mr and Mrs Ps account was set up in 2012; approximately  five 
years prior to the disputed transactions being  carried out. Santander has provided evidence  
of the online  activity on the account since the online facility was opened. This shows  that the 
online facility was used  to carry out the following actions since  2013:
To view the account and statements
Amend contact information such as telephone number and email
To view a credit card PIN associated with the account
Set up a £2 payment from the account in 2016
Order replacement cards and a chequebook  in 2017
Santander has pointed  out that none  of the above activity has been disputed by the account  
holders. It added that the contact information changes included  the addition of Mr and 
Mrs Ps genuine home landline  number, the replacement card ordered has been used for 
undisputed transactions and the £2 payment  which was made  in 2016 wasnt  disputed by 
the account holders. It also pointed out that the person who had access  to the account  had 
the ability to remove  the funds long before the disputed transactions  were  carried out but 
chose to do so when Mr P was abroad. 
Considering Mr P has disputed setting  up or using online banking, the above activity  isnt 
conducive with what Id expect to see in cases of fraud. If an unknown third party  had 
managed to gain access  to Mr and Mrs Ps account  via online banking back in 2012, I would 
have expected them to remove funds from the account at the earliest possible opportunity  to 
prevent detection and be restricted access to the account. I also wouldnt have expected 
Ref: DRN09422284them to use the facility to carry out activities such as a PIN request, card and chequebook 
replacements and to set up a payment for only £2.
Mr P has said that he didnt allow any third party to access or manage his account; and he 
states that the joint account holder also didnt have any control of the account. But 
considering Mr Pby  his own admissionwas unable to carry out tasks  using a computer 
or mobile  telephone, it would be reasonable to conclude that he sought  the assistance  of 
someone close to him to carry  out these tasks  on his behalf. And considering the nature of 
the activity on the account between 2013  and 2017,  I think  this goes further in showing that 
someone was carrying  out this activity with the consent of the account holder. I see no 
reasonable explanation  as to why an unknown  third party or fraudster would manage the 
online account for such a substantial  period of time and carry out such  activity. Furthermore, 
I find that even had a third party  been  carrying out this activity  without  Mr Ps knowledge or 
consent he likely would  have noticed the activity and reported this to Santander.
For the reasons  above, I find that its more  likely  than not that Mr P allowed someone close 
to him the required information to access and manage the account  on his behalf.  And its 
likely from the technical data provided  that it was this person that carried out the transactions 
that Mr P disputes. Whilst its likely that Mr P allowed this access to help with the 
convenience of online banking when he was unclear on how to use the services, it was this 
authority that allowed  the third party to make  those transactions.  As a result, hes now 
responsible for the payments made  by them.
Mr P has argued that he was abroad  at the time of the disputed transactions,  and Santander 
were aware of this. So he thinks  that this should  have  prevented  the payments from being 
made and alerted suspicion  in terms of the account  activity. Whilst I agree that the payments 
were out of character in terms  of the limited  account  usage Ive seen, I dont think that any 
intervention by Santander would have been effective. The person whod likely been  given 
the relevant security access  to Mr Ps account had the facility to authenticate  the payment 
through an OTPsent to a mobile registered  on the accountand would have sufficient  
information to pass security and verify the payment had a follow  up call been made. This 
person also likely had access to both the home  phone and mobile telephone number 
registered on the account, so would have been able to persuasively  answer  any of the 
banks questions. Additionally, I can see that someone contacted Santander claiming to be 
Mr P after making one of the disputed transaction, asking why the money hadnt reached its 
destination account. This person was able to pass all security questions. So this goes further 
in showing that any attempts by Santander  to detect or question  the validity  of the payment 
would likely  have been unsuccessful. It would  therefore be unreasonable  to hold Santander 
liable for the disputed transactions.
Whilst I can appreciate why Mr P may have given  someone close  to him the ability to access 
his account as he was unable to manage the account through  any other means  but attend 
branchthis was the catalyst  that allowed the disputed payments to be made and bypass 
any security features on the account.  And as Ive found that its more likely than not that 
Mr P willingly allowed  the third party  that likely carried out the disputed transactions this 
access, I find that this would constitute  a failure  with intent to comply  with the obligations  of a 
payment service user under the regulations. It follows that it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Santander liable for these  transactions as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Ref: DRN09422285Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0942228