K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Black Horse Limited  (Black Horse) mis-sold Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) alongside a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2010 Mr G took out a loan for the purpose of buying a car. Around  the same  time and 
following a phone call he also took out PPI, designed to protect his loan payments in the 
event he couldnt  work  because  of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
The policy was a regular  monthly premium policy. And it cost just over £12 a month.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale  complaint because  he thought the evidence 
showed Mr G chose  to take out the cover  and there  was nothing to say it was wrong or 
unsuitable for him. But he said Black Horses offer to pay back some  of the cost of the policy 
due to high commission  was fair in the circumstances.
Mr G disagrees,  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided Mr G hasnt  lost out as a result of taking  out PPI to the extent he should  get 
back everything he paid for the policy because:
I think Black Horse  made it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. It was after all 
some time ago.
While Black Horse  doesnt have a call recording of the phone conversation Mr G had 
with Black Horse, it has provided a call script that it says its adviser  would have followed 
during the call. Looking at this it seems  that a consumer would have  already  been given 
the decision about whether his/her loan application  was successful or not  this was a 
separate call about PPI and they wouldve been told this. And the script  goes on to 
prompt the adviser to ask the consumer whether they wanted to the cover  or not.
Given this and in the absence of any evidence to persuade me otherwise, I think the 
script is more likely than not broadly typical of how the conversation  went with Mr G 
about PPI. So I think, on balance, Mr G understood he had a choice about PPI and that 
he chose to take it out without undue pressure.  
Black  Horse recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that in the 
main it was. For example Mr G didnt have  any other means he could  rely on to make his 
payments  such as sick pay or savings. So he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Ref: DRN08458222Im mindful that its recorded from the time that Mr G had seen a doctor/received 
treatment at some point within the 24 months immediately before the sale (no other 
details were recorded.)  And given what the policy said about existing medical conditions, 
it would  seem Mr G wouldnt have been able to make a claim for whatever his treatment  
related to  subject  to certain time limits.
But Im also mindful that in making  his complaint to us, Mr G said he didnt have any 
health issues. And when recently asked about the apparent discrepancy, he said he 
didnt think his conditions were relevant for our questionnaire. It would therefore seem  
to me to be the case that Mr G didnt regard his conditions  as being serious or of 
particular concern therefore at the time.
So while it appears  that Black Horse  didnt do all that it should have done and explored  
Mr Gs recent medical history to assess whether  the policy was suitable for him (and told 
him where  and why it wasnt  suitable for him) I dont think  it was ultimately wrong  for 
Black Horse  to have recommended PPI given Mr Gs broader  circumstances including  
his limited means and the fact that his medical conditions  dont appear to have been 
problematic for him or of significance to him. Id add here that it also appears the policy 
would have allowed  a claim for existing conditions  after a period of time had elapsed  and 
if hed remained symptom  free, so it doesnt  appear  Mr G would have been completely 
excluded from making a claim for these things over the full term of the loan.   
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been; albeit it seems Mr G was told something about existing medical  
conditions not being covered because the script  seems to prompt  the adviser  to mention 
this. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went wrong  for the reasons 
Ive set out above. At around £12 a month it wasnt a significant cost consideration and it 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
This means Black Horse doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  it didnt tell Mr G, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr G hasnt lost out to the extent that he 
should get back everything he paid for PPI.
Ref: DRN08458223But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0845822