K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about an instalment loan he took with Gain  Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream. Mr L says the loan were  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr L took out 3 loans  with Lending Stream between December 2011 and March 2012.  Mr Ls 
borrowing history with Lending Stream is detailed below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 05/12/2011 15/02/2012 6 £320.00 £160.00
2 12/03/2012 outstanding 5 £115.00 £63.25
3 19/03/2012 outstanding 6 £455.00 £290.75
Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream  hadnt done anything  wrong  when providing  Mr L 
with his loans.  He explained that Lending  Stream gathered  adequate  information and there  
wasnt anything within that information  that was cause for concern. Mr L disagreed  and 
explained that the pattern  of his borrowing should  have been  of concern and he had other 
credit commitments  which used up his entire salary. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman   for a
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I dont  think Lending Stream  has treated Mr L 
unfairly or that it should  pay him compensation. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr L and Id like to explain why I think this is the case.
Mr L was provided with three high-interest loan, intended for short-term use. So Lending  
Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Lending Stream needed  to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr L before providing  it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN03535962In his complaint  Mr L says that Lending  Stream  didnt lend to him responsibly because he 
was asking to borrow such  a large amount by loan 3 and he hadnt made a repayment for 
loan 2 by this point. He also says he had an outstanding loan which was larger than his 
salary. And Mr L says he wouldve had to borrow again straight away.  
Lending Stream says that it carried out adequate  checks  by gathering details of Mr Ls 
income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check. And based  on this Lending  
Stream says it didnt  see anything to alert it to any sustainability or affordability issues  for the 
loans it gave Mr L.
Its important to note that when Mr L took out his first loan with Lending  Stream it doesnt 
seem that he had an existing relationship with them. The loan of £320 was to be repaid over 
6 instalments of around £160.  Mr L had told Lending  Stream that his monthly income was 
around £1,840  and he had a reported expenditure of £800. I cant see anything  to suggest 
that Lending Stream had reason to question the information it had about Mr L or verify it. 
Looking at the monthly repayments in light of Mr Ls declared disposable income  its difficult 
for me to conclude  that Lending Stream was wrong  to decide that the repayments  would be 
affordable sustainably for Mr L. And as explained above, early  on in a lending relationship 
we may expect a lender to carry out fewer checks, unless anything within the information 
gathered is of concern. And in Mr Ls case I cant see that there was. 
Loan 1 was repaid early by Mr L and loan 2 was taken out one month after it had been 
repaid. It was also for a lower amount - £115 to be repaid over 5 instalments. Lending 
Stream gathered  similar information from Mr L and his income and expenditure was the 
same. So I cant see there was any reason  for Lending Stream to doubt the information it 
had about Mr L. I can see that loan 2 was still running when loan 3 was given to Mr L. And 
as Mr L notes the loan was for a substantially  higher  amount of £455. The highest combined 
repayment for Mr L for both loans 2 and 3 was £290.75. Whilst this was a significant  
increase, based  on Mr Ls income  and expenditure it seemed  he would be able to 
sustainably meet the repayments for this borrowing. I say this because  with Mr Ls 
expenditure and the loan repayment he was left with around  £750 which  seems  reasonable. 
Lending Stream says it carried out a credit  check on Mr L and this didnt reveal anything of 
concern. Looking at the details within the credit check  there  isnt anything that wouldve 
alerted Lending Stream  to any potential  affordability issues. Mr L says he had an existing 
pay day loan which was his entire  salary.  However, this isnt apparent  on the check at the 
times these  loans were  applied for. Whilst I dont doubt Mr Ls comments, Lending Stream  
doesnt appear to have  details of this existing borrowing.  And it doesnt appear to be in the 
information Mr L gave  to it at the time he applied  for his loans. So I think  Lending Stream  
acted reasonably by carrying  out this check and based on the information  it gathered  at the 
time I cant see that there  is enough  to alert it to any financial issues  for Mr L.
I appreciate Mr Ls comments about  the impact the loans have had on him, but I havent  
seen anything to make me think Lending  Stream acted irresponsibly in the circumstances of 
his case.
I can see Mr L has outstanding balances on loans 2 and 3. As explained by the adjudicator 
Mr L can contact Mackenzie Hall and Motormile Finance Limited about the debts and
wed expect them to treat him positively and sympathetically. Mr L can also receive advice
on repaying these  amounts, or any financial difficulties he might have, from Citizens
Advice or by contacting Step Change on 0800 138 111.
Ref: DRN03535963my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Gain  Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0353596