K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds actions following a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ls car was damaged  in an accident.  Admiral  valued his car at £3,500.  But it said it would  
reduce its settlement to him by about  35% as he hadn't told it about some points on his 
licence when he renewed his policy. Mr L didn't agree with Admirals valuation  or the 
reduction in the claim settlement. He brought his complaint to us. 
While our investigator was looking at the case Admiral told us it had made a mistake when 
calculating how much to reduce  its settlement  by. It said the settlement should  have been 
reduced by 31.42% and not 35%.  Our investigator didn't think Admiral  had valued the car 
fairly. She said it should increase the valuation by around £646.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 April 2020. For ease I've copied  my provisional  findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
valuation
Mr Ls policy says that if his car was a total loss Admiral would pay its market value. Our 
approach to assessing the market value  of cars is to use the industry trade guides for 
valuing second hand cars. Thats because  those are based on likely selling prices rather  
than the prices cars are advertised  at. But, Mr Ls car was imported and as such the three  
main trade guides didn't provide a valuation for it. Instead Admiral instructed an independent  
engineer to value  the car. He noted  the car's condition, that it had some pre-existing damage 
and said that it was worth £3,500.
Mr L didn't agree with that valuation  and said that cars with higher mileage were  being 
advertised for far more than that. Thats accurate as the independent engineer had added  
some adverts to his report which showed two cars with higher mileage being advertised for 
£4,700 and £4,980.  But as I've indicated above  we don't find advertised prices  a reliable 
guide for assessing market value as those  are often inflated to allow for negotiation and 
don't reflect the actual  sale price.  Also Admiral has provided other  adverts which  show cars 
being advertised for sums  under £4,000. So the fact that some cars with a higher mileage 
are being  advertised  for a higher price doesn't automatically mean that the independent  
engineer's assessment wasn't  accurate.
Our investigator noted that the independent engineering firm Admiral instructed doesn't  
appear to be specialists in assessing  imported cars. That may or may not be the case. But 
they will still have expertise in valuing cars as that will be part of their bread and butter  work.  
And I haven't  seen evidence from an engineering firm that does specialise in imported cars 
to show that the engineers valuation might  be wrong. So even if the engineer isn't a 
specialist in imported  cars I haven't seen  any evidence  that persuades me that his valuation  
should be disregarded. 
Ref: DRN03008922Its apparent that the engineer had considered the adverts when  arriving at his valuation, as 
he added  them to his report. But he also took into account the cars condition, which 
included some pre-existing damage. Its usual for pre-existing  damage  to reduce the market 
value of cars. And we think its fair for 50% of the cost of repairing the pre-existing damage 
to be deducted  from the value of the car. In this case the engineer  estimated the costs of 
repairing the pre-existing damage to Mr Ls car was around £1,730. So he deducted half of 
that from his valuation to produce his final market value figure. In other words the engineer 
initially valued Mr Ls car at around  [3,500 + (1,730   2)] £4,365, before considering  its pre-
existing damage.
When our investigator was looking into Mr Ls complaint she noted that a fourth trade  guide  
did give a value of Mr Ls car of £4,146,  which was £646 higher than the engineer's final 
assessment. So she said that Admiral  should use that figure to base its settlement on. But I 
note that there were  some anomalies with the trade guide valuation  our investigator used. 
For example it didn't  take account of the cars  pre-existing damage  and she used an 
incorrect date of loss, which  would have affected  the valuation.  So I've run the valuation 
again myself. 
I should say that some  months have passed  since the investigator ran her valuation and in 
that time the trade guide will have continued to gather data from which it calculates its 
estimated value. So a valuation assessment run some months later won't be the same as 
the initial valuation,  even if the details  entered are identical. I think its also worth  noting that 
that even though the trade guides use similar methods  to estimate  valuations,  they use 
different data sets,  so they don't ever agree on an exact figure.  And, occasionally, one of the 
guides will be so far off the others  that we think its fair to ignore it completely. Also, as its 
virtually impossible to say what the exact market value of a car should be, we think  that a fair 
way to find it is to use an average of the various  figures given by the trade guides, as long as 
none of those are so far out its fair to disregard it.
But in this case, as only one of the guides has produced a valuation, I can't say whether that 
is out of step with the others and should be disregarded. Neither can I make  an average 
calculation using one trade guide alone.  But, given the trade  guide  valuation I do have is 
based on specific data,  I don't  think  it would be fair to discount it. 
Similarly, as I've said above,  I don't  think  it would be reasonable to disregard the valuation 
given by the independent engineer. So I think that a fair approach  would be to use the 
average valuation  provided by both the trade guide and the independent engineer's 
valuation.
The trade guide valued Mr Ls car at £5,155. But that doesn't take account  of its pre-existing 
damage. The engineer estimated that it would cost £1,730 to repair  that damage and half of 
that figure is £865.  So to account for that damage I think  its fair to reduce the trade guide 
valuation by that amount. That brings the valuation down to £4,290. And the average  of that 
figure together with the engineers valuation of £3,500 is [(4,290 + 3,500)  2] £3,895.  That is 
some £395  more than Admiral valued  Mr Ls car at. And it reduced its settlement offer by 
31.42%. So taking that into account  I think that Admiral should increase its settlement figure 
by [395  31.42%] £270.89. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date that Admiral  settled Mr Ls claim to the date it pays him the extra  amount.
Admiral decision to reduce Mr Ls settlement
Ref: DRN03008923Before it renewed Mr Ls policy Admiral sent him documents  showing what information the 
policy was based  on. Those said that Mr L needed  to check the documents  carefully  and tell 
Admiral if anything had changed or wasn't  accurate. It warned him that if he didn't tell it 
about any changes  then it could reduce any claim settlement. 
Mr L had received some penalty points on his licence for speeding in the previous policy 
year. But he didn't tell Admiral about  those, so they weren't  showing on the documents 
Admiral sent to him. If Mr L had told Admiral about  those penalty  points then it would have 
charged him a higher premium. Thats  not unusual as most insurers  I'm aware of will 
consider a driver  with recent points for speeding  as a higher risk than drivers without those 
points. And they reflect that in the premiums they charge. But because  Mr L didn't tell 
Admiral about the points  Admiral didn't charge the higher premium and Mr L received an 
artificially reduced premium.
I don't think Mr L chose deliberately not to tell Admiral about the points, and his mistake in 
not telling  it about those  is known  in the insurance industry and a careless 
misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation: the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which sets out what an insurer  may do where a 
consumers made a misrepresentation.
CIDRA says that, where theres  been a claim on the policy, an insurer can settle  any claim 
on a proportionate basis. By that I mean it can work  out what percentage of the correct  
premium Mr L had actually paid and limit its settlement of any claim to that percentage. And 
thats what Admiral did in this case.  So I think its approach is fair, although its told us that it 
initially made a mistake when calculating what that proportion should be. Its now shown us 
how it should have  calculated that percentage, and those  show  that the correct figure was 
31.42% and not around 35%. So, unless it has already done so, it should recalculate the 
amount of its settlement based on the adjusted figure and pay any balance to Mr L. It should 
add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it initially paid Mr L to 
settle the claim to the date it makes  payment. 
Neither Mr L nor Admiral provided  any further comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr L nor Admiral have objected  to my provisional findings I see no reason to 
change them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. Unless it has already done so I 
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to:
Pay Mr L a further £270.89 to settle  the claim  for the total loss of his car. It should 
add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it initially paid 
Mr L to settle the claim until the date it makes payment1.
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if 
Ref: DRN03008924If not already  done so, recalculate  the amount of its claim settlement based on a 
proportionate reduction of 31.42%. If there  is a balance  to be paid to Mr L, it should 
add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it initially paid 
Mr L to settle the claim and the date it makes  payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0300892