K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability  of the advice  he was given to take out free standing  
additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plans with Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life). He wants to be put back  as close  to the position he would 
be in now had he received suitable advice.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 31 March  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
In summary,  Mr M said that he wasnt  told about the in-house options available to him when 
he took out FSAVC  plans  with Sun Life. He wanted  Sun Life to carry out a comparison to 
see if hed been  financially  disadvantaged  as a result of that advice.  Sun Life said it hadnt 
retained documents from the earlier FSAVC sale in 1991, but had no reason to think  it hadnt 
followed a compliant process. And it thought the second  plan from 1996  had been taken out 
on an execution only basis, so it wasnt responsible for any advice to take out that plan.
I explained the regulatory position at the time of each  FSAVC sale.  I said that there  was little 
evidence to confirm  what had happened in 1991.  But I thought that if Sun Life had made 
Mr M aware  of the in-house AVC options, it was more likely than not that he would have 
approached his employer and discovered  that in-house AVCs  provided better value for 
money  as he later did in 1997.   
I also concluded that Sun Life probably  gave Mr M advice in 1996. But in any case,  if 
Mr M had been given suitable advice  in 1991   and taken the in-house option   it followed 
that he would have taken the same path in 1996  as he would have been aware of that 
option. I said Sun Life should undertake  a redress calculation in accordance  with the 
regulators FSAVC  review guidance and compensate  Mr M accordingly.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.  Sun Life said that it would also accept the decision 
in order to resolve the matter for Mr M, but it made two points in response.  
In respect of the 1996 FSAVC guidance,  Sun Life asked for confirmation of where the 
regulator had confirmed it to be clarification of the existing rules, rather  than new 
requirements.
It thought that the comments about the 1991 sale were  made  in hindsight  using  the 
new standards introduced in 1996. It didnt think it fair to judge the 1991 sale by the 
1996 standards. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  generally  accepted  
the outcome and the calculation method that should be followed,  I see no reason to change  
the conclusions  I came to in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN06334862In respect of the points Sun Life raised I understand that it disagrees with our interpretation  
of the 1996 rules being confirmation of the earlier standards. 
When the Personal Investment Authority took over as the regulator from LAUTRO it initially  
adopted the existing rules.  These  included having regard to the consumers financial 
position generally and to any rights  they may have under  an occupational pension  scheme  
and give the consumer  all information  relevant to their dealings with the representative  in 
question.
The same regulator,  in a later annual report,  commented on a complaint it had upheld  from 
1992. It found the above rules included a requirement to have regard to a right to make  an 
AVC to that scheme. It further  considered  the previous rules requirement  to exercise  due 
skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors  would  mean that it was likely to decide 
that the sale of an FSAVC  by a company representative , before the publication  of RU20,   
was non-compliant  if the representative  did not at least mention the generic benefits of an in-
house AVC and invite the investor to consider them.
And when  the FSA took over as regulator and later set out its proposals to put things right 
over the mis-sale of FSAVCs, it didnt differentiate between sales before and after 
May 1996.
So I think the actions  of previous regulators  confirmed that tied advisers  should  still have  
known, prior to 1996, that in-house  AVC options  would have been available to consumers  
and that our approach is consistent with the regulators expectations going back  to 1988. 
In this case I didnt  think, on balance, that Sun Life sufficiently  drew Mr Ms attention to the 
in-house options. And that if it had Mr M would more likely  than not have taken up the option  
of a contract  that provided better value for money. I also thought that the 1996  sale wouldnt 
have gone ahead if Mr M had been aware of the in-house options, as I think he would have 
followed the same path as he would have  done in 1991  and the path that he did take a 
year later when he took out AVCs having been  made aware of them.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint against  Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited should undertake a redress  
calculation, for both plans involved, in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review 
guidance, incorporating the amendment  below to take into account  that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January  2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 
1 January 2005, Sun Life Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited should use the 
CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor 
Ref: DRN06334863Growth Total  Return Index thereafter. If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the 
compensation amount should  if possible be paid into Mr Ms FSAVC plans on a 
proportionate basis, or into just one plan if Mr M prefers. Mr M will need to notify  Sun Life of 
this.
The payments should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan(s) if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension plan(s) isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of 
the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have  been taxed according to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020 .
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN06334864Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M complains about  the suitability of the advice he was given to take out free standing additional 
voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plans with Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
(Sun Life). He wants to be put back  as close to the position he would  be in now had he received 
suitable advice.
background
Mr M took out two FSAVCs in 1991 with Sun Life. He made  regular contributions to one plan and a 
single contribution to the other. In January 1996  he took out a further plan with a single contribution 
and subsequently made further single premium contributions to that plan in 1997, 1998 and 1999. He 
continued to make regular contributions until June 2002, when soon afterwards he started drawing 
benefits from the plans.
Mr M also made in-house additional voluntary contributions (AVCs)  from April 1997.
In September 2018 Mr M, represented by a claims  management company, complained about  the 
advice he was given by Sun Life. Mr M said he hadnt  been made  aware of the in-house options when 
he was advised to take out the FSAVC and requested a comparison of the two schemes to be carried 
out to see if any loss had occurred and if redress was appropriate.
Sun Life didnt agree.  It said it hadnt retained the original point  of sale documents  for the plans  but 
had no reason to think it hadnt followed its sales process correctly. So it couldnt  say Mr M had been 
unsuitably advised.  In addition,  it said that Mr M had taken out the plan in 1996 on an execution only 
basis, so it hadnt given any advice on that FSAVC plan. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the response so he brought his complaint to us where one of our adjudicators  
said it should be upheld.  
She said the evidence, or rather lack thereof, didnt support the position  that Sun Life had made  Mr M 
aware of the alternative  in-house AVC options at the time of its advice in 1991. But she thought that 
there was evidence  that Sun Life had advised Mr M to make a further contribution to a new plan in 
1996 - and she thought that wasnt suitable either. She said Sun Life should  calculate redress in line 
with the regulators FSAVC review guidance.
Sun Life didnt agree.  It said it wasnt required to have  kept the documents from the 1991 sales and 
shouldnt be penalised  for not doing so. It said there was no evidence to show its sales process  
wasnt compliant. It also said that it had shown  the 1996 plan to have been taken  out on an execution 
only basis and therefore also compliant with the regulations at the time.   The adjudicator remained of 
the same opinion,  but Sun Life clarified  the position around the 1996 sale. 
It said there wasnt a fact find or summary  of the financial objectives. It thought  the reasons  why  
page had been completed in response to Mr Ms completed  application and signed execution only 
form. There had seemed to be some kind of delay in applying the application because  of the 
Christmas post and the need to request some  further information, but overall Sun Life didnt agree  
with the adjudicators view. It said it wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman,  so its 
been passed  to me for a review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I agree with the adjudicator but for slightly 
different reasons. 
Ref: DRN06334865The regulatory position
Ill first start by looking at the regulatory requirements  for tied advisers who offered products  from 
just one provider, as was the case here. The original FSAVC plans from 1991 were  sold through  a 
provider, who later became part of Sun Life. Under the rules of the then regulator the providers 
representative was obliged to give Mr M any information that was relevant to their dealings, and take 
account of Mr Ms general  financial  position  including  his rights under  a work place pension.  So, 
although in-house AVCs  werent a product a representative could advise on  they needed to make 
Mr M aware  that such an option existed  and that it was available to him with potentially lower charges.
In 1996, the new regulator issued  guidance around the sale of FSAVCs for tied advisers. It said they 
should:
Draw the consumers attention to the AVC plan.
Discuss the generic  difference  between the FSAVC  and AVC.
Direct the consumer to his employer for more information on the AVC options.
The regulator  confirmed  it to be clarification of the existing rules,  rather than new requirements. So I 
think that regardless  of whether the sale was before 1996, the adviser  should  have:
Made Mr M aware that an AVC was available.
Explained that AVCs were likely  to provide  better value for money.
Recommended Mr M found out about his AVC options.
The 1991 sales
Theres no information available from the 1991 sales to confirm what  was discussed  at the time. So 
its not possible to safely say whether  Sun Life did make Mr M aware  of the in-house AVC or even 
added years options. Or that it met the requirements  Ive set out above.  But in cases  like this, where 
there is a lack of evidence  from the time and where  theres a difference in both parties version of 
events  I have to consider  what  is more  likely than not to have happened on the balance of 
probability. 
When Mr M met with Sun Life he belonged  to his occupational pension scheme and said he spoke  
with an adviser to learn how to increase his retirement  provision and potentially retire  early. At that 
time I think Mr M was unlikely to have agreed to take out any plans without advice  as I dont think  he 
would necessarily have been aware of FSAVCs or indeed  the other  relevant alternatives. Its 
unfortunate that no records exist of the advice that was given in 1991 to confirm what was said.  But I 
think, on balance, that its more likely than not Sun Life didnt sufficiently draw Mr Ms attentions  to the 
employers in-house options. I say that because when  Mr M did become  aware  of such options in 
1997, he took out the in-house alternative. So if he did so then, I think  on balance that he would have 
done so in 1991 if hed been  made aware  of that option.
Sun Life has said that it shouldnt be penalised because it hasnt got records of the recommendation 
from 1991  and cant show it followed its processes correctly. It says theres  no evidence that it didnt 
follow the process,  and I acknowledge that it may have done. But I think  its likely the outcome of Sun 
Life making Mr M aware of the AVC alternative would have  meant he would  have approached his 
employer, and more  likely than not would have decided that AVCs provided better value for money - 
and started  contributions to the in-house scheme as he did in 1997.
The 1996 sale
Based on the evidence available,  its difficult to say conclusively what happened in late 1995 and 
early 1996  when Mr M made a single premium contribution to a new FSAVC. 
Ref: DRN06334866Sun Life says Mr M took out the plan without  advice  and pointed to a form he signed  which said I 
confirm that the saleof  the investment contract detailed in my policy applicationis to be made as a 
direct response to my request to purchase that particular investment contract  and that I did not seek  
any advice from, and was not given any advicerelating in any way to this purchase. 
Sun Life also provided a letter which  was sent in response to Mr M following his application. It said, 
we understand that this proposal  has been  affected  (sic) of your own volition  and as a consequence 
is being  processed on the basis  that you neither sought nor received any advice.   Mr M was asked to 
contact Sun Life if that statement wasnt correct and theres no evidence to show that he did contact 
Sun Life.
But, on the other  hand,  Sun Life has provided a copy of a single page reasons why letter which 
stated that the written  explanation below  is to confirm  the advice  which you have been given.  It says 
a recommendation  has been made by a consultant and was countersigned  by a manager. And it did 
confirm the action Mr M took, namely to invest £1,200 net into the FSAVC plan. 
Ive also considered the illustration  that was provided at the time.  It said the provider would pay the 
adviser £95 for arranging this plan and in anticipation of providing continuing service in future  years. 
It would seem unreasonable  for any payment to be made to the adviser if, as Sun Life has suggested, 
no advice was given. And its not clear to me why a letter, outlining a recommendation  to invest, 
needed to be sent to Mr M if he had asked to invest on an execution only basis.  
Sun Life has explained that by 1996 the existing provider had been taken over by another  one (prior 
to Sun Life taking over that provider as well). So if Mr M instructed Sun Life to invest a new single  
premium in the same  way as it had in 1991,  it would have needed to make him aware  that a new plan 
would need to be set up with the new provider  and the money  would have to be invested in a different  
fund  albeit one with the same risk profile. 
So its not clear that Mr M could in fact have invested on an execution only basis.  His instruction 
couldnt have been accepted, as the original provider  and fund were no longer  available for 
investment. 
I think  Sun Life would have needed  to have some involvement in the process with Mr M to make him 
aware of the change and I think the reasons why letter was confirmation  of that. So while I appreciate 
that Mr M did sign a disclaimer  that said Sun Life didnt provide any advice, Ive also taken  into 
account the evidence  which  suggests that it reiterated any advice it may have given through a one 
page recommendation  summary.  
So I think its probable that advice was given in 1996.  But even if Im wrong on that, as I think its likely 
that Mr M wasnt given enough information in 1991 to make a fully informed decision,  I think  its 
probable that Mr M was simply taking the same path as he had previously. So whether or not Sun Life 
did give advice in 1996, the cause of him taking out a further FSAVC was most likely  to have been the 
original process he went through in 1991  which Ive already concluded was unsuitable. 
So, given the in-house alternative in 1991 and my conclusion that, if properly informed, Mr M would  
have opted for that, I think it follows that Mr M would also have chosen the in-house option  in 1996. 
And he should  be compensated for not doing so at that point as well. 
Mr M has told us that he took out an in-house  AVC plan when he became aware of that option in 
1997. But he continued with the regular  FSAVC contributions  and made several additional single 
premium payments into the other plan. But I dont think it automatically follows that Mr M would  have 
been made aware that the FSAVC plans were unsuitable  for him at that time. So I think  the redress 
Ive set out below should continue beyond the date that Mr M took out AVCs and shouldnt be capped  
up to that point. 
Ref: DRN06334867my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint.  Sun Life Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited should undertake  a redress calculation, for both plans involved,  in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below  to take into account  that 
data for the CAPS mixed  with property index  isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review  guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses  arising solely from 
poor investment returns  in the FSAVC  funds, which is why a benchmark index is used to calculate the 
difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching contributions or subsidised 
benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index  provides  the closest  correlation  
to the CAPS mixed  with property  index. So where  the calculation requires ongoing  charges in an 
investment-based FSAVC  and AVC to be compared after 
1 January 2005, Sun Life Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited should use the CAPS  mixed 
with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE  UK Private  Investor  Growth  Total  Return 
Index thereafter. If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible 
be paid into Mr Ms FSAVC  plans on a proportionate basis, or into just one plan if Mr M prefers. Mr M 
will need  to notify Sun Life of this.
The payments should allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation  
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan(s) if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If a payment into the pension plan(s) isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump  sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would  otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would  be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed  according  to his likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0633486