K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1996 alongside  a credit card. Mr D says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out. I note that this was a postal application with no apparent  involvement  from a 
representative. Ive seen a copy of the application form and theres  nothing  on this form 
to indicate Mr D would have had to take PPI to get the credit  card.  Instead it gave Mr D a 
choice. Mr D ticked specifically to take PPI and signed the form.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
When the policy was sold,  BoS got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr D about that. Because  BoS 
didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what hes said about his existing  
repayment means at the time of the sale.  But these points dont change my decision.  Mr D 
has told us that he would  have been  entitled in effect to unlimited sick pay from his 
employer. However, I havent seen any evidence  of this. I appreciate that the sale took place 
over 20 years ago so its difficult for Mr D to now provide this evidence. However, given that 
the sick pay period  is unusually  more  than the norm,  I would need to see some evidence  of it 
in order to be able to conclude that this meant the policy wouldnt  have  been  of use to Mr D. 
what the Bank of Scotland plc needs to do
Ref: DRN04744982BoS has to pay back  to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  BoS should also pay back to Mr D any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
BoS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr D the difference between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoS should also pay Mr D 8%* simple  interest  if Mr D 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0474498