K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a two mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 2001 and 2008. Mr and Mrs W say Newcastle Building Society  mis-sold  them  the 
MPPI policies.
background
Mr and Mrs W were sold two MPPI policies. The policy taken out in 2001 only covered Mr W, 
but the mortgage was in joint names.  The policy was amended in 2005 when a further  
advance was taken,  and cancelled in 2008  when a new policy was taken.
The policy taken in 2008 was a joint policy  with a benefit of 75% in favour of Mr W, and 
25% in favour of Mrs W.
When our adjudicator looked  at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, they though  that the MPPI sold in 
2001 wasnt mis-sold. But they also felt that the MPPI sold in 2008 was mis-sold.
Neither NBS or Mr and Mrs W agreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
For clarity,  I will deal with each sale in turn.
MPPI policy sold in 2001
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
NBS has provided some  paperwork from the sale that took place in 2001   including  a 
mortgage application. I can see that on the mortgage application the MPPI is presented as 
an optional product and has been  selected, and a choice for the first applicant only (Mr W) to 
be covered  Mr and Mrs W have then signed the application agreeing to the information 
held on it. So I think NBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the MPPI 
and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this as it 
was so long ago.
NBS didnt recommend  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs W so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed to decide 
if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr and Mrs W about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like they wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mr W 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  - so it would have been 
Ref: DRN08616872useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said but these points dont change my 
decision and for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think  this policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether NBS needs  to give Mr and Mrs W some of the commission 
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ws 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So NBS 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the MPPI they had with 
that mortgage.
MPPI policy sold in 2008
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because I dont think NBS gave  Mr and 
Mrs W clear enough  information about the policy. I say this because at the time Mr and Mrs 
W took out the policy, Mr W was in controlling  employment   he had 90% of the 
shareholding of the company he was employed  by. And looking  at the policy  document 
provided, making an unemployment claim for someone who was in controlling employment 
would have been more difficult than for someone who was employed. This was a significant  
term  and shouldve  been brought to Mr and Mrs Ws attention  at the time.
I dont think Mr and Mrs W wouldve bought  the policy if NBS had given them enough 
information about it  so I think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because  of what  NBS did wrong.  
NBS have responded to the adjudicators view  and has said that it doesnt agree. It says 
that the advisor has clearly taken in to account Mr and Mrs Ws needs when recommending 
the policy to them, given the cover  they already had in place, and that it has always been up 
to the consumer to decide  to take MPPI.
But this isnt why the adjudicator upheld the complaint, and its not the reason I intend to 
either. While  I agree  that the MPPI looks like it has been set up to kick in after occupational 
sick pay had been exhausted, it doesnt  change the fact that the nature of Mr Ws role within  
the company he worked for (as a director)  meant  that it would  be difficult  for him to comply  
with the requirements  of making an unemployment  claim  as he would have control  over 
what happened to the company, and in effect his own redundancy. So I still think  I should 
uphold the complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
NBS should put Mr and Mrs W in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out MPPI  
in 2008. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already,  and NBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the MPPI sold in 2008
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs W made a successful  claim under the MPPI  policy,  NBS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
Ref: DRN08616873 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  NBS to take off tax from this interest.  NBS must  give Mr and Mrs W a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws compliant about  their MPPI policy  sold in 2001.
I do uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  about their MPPI policy  sold in 2008  Newcastle  
Building Society should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0861687