K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Insurance  Factory Ltd is charging her a proportion of the premium  and 
fees for a motor  insurance policy when she said she cancelled it. Mrs H is represented in this 
matter by her husband. He wants it to cancel the policy and refund the deposit paid. 
background
Mrs H took out a policy online through a comparison site when she intended  to purchase a 
car. But, after two viewings, she changed her mind. Mr H then emailed Insurance Factory  to 
say that hed asked for the policy to be cancelled on several occasions. But Insurance  
Factory said they would have to pay £205.27. Mr H wasnt happy with this as they had never 
bought the car and he said theyd tried to cancel the policy on several  occasions.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought Mrs H 
hadnt told Insurance Factory that she wanted to cancel the policy until after the cooling off 
period. She thought the charges  applied by Insurance Factory  were fair and reasonable as 
they were made according to the terms of business.  She said that if Mrs H was unhappy  with 
the insurers refund of premium, then she should  raise this with it. 
Mr H replied that the fees charged by Insurance  Factory were more  than the policy amount. 
He wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H and Mrs H feel frustrated  that they are being pursued for money 
to pay for cover  for a car that they didnt buy. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the brokers  acted in line with the terms of business and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Insurance Factorys terms of business  that Mrs H agreed to when she took out 
her policy.  These say that there  is a setup fee of up to £75 thats retained if cancellation is 
outside the cooling off period. Theres a fee of up to £50 for cancellation outside the 14 day 
cooling off period. And theres a £30 fee for any mid-term  adjustments. 
I think its reasonably clear that Mrs H cancelled  the policy  after the 14 day cooling off 
period. Mr H said he sent emails to Insurance Factory before this date, but, from what Ive 
seen, these dont  mention  cancellation.  Mr H did send  one further email  but this wasnt  
correctly addressed and so Insurance Factory didnt receive this. Even so, this was sent 
outside the cooling off period. And then Mr H emailed  Insurance Factory to finally  cancel the 
policy some  five weeks after the policy was taken out.
Mr H said hed also called Insurance Factory to cancel  the policy. But I cant  see any 
evidence of this in its records. And Mr H hasnt  provided us with any evidence of his 
telephone records  to show that hed made  such a call.
Ref: DRN08533332So, as the policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period, I think  it was reasonable for 
Insurance Factory  to apply the relevant charges. I can see that it charged Mrs H £70 for 
setting up the policy and £44.31 for the cancellation. Wed expect a broker to charge for their 
administration services  and I think these charges are reasonable as theyre  in keeping with 
what others charge.  
Insurance Factory  also charged Mrs H £30 for a mid-term  adjustment. This was because the 
insurer noted that shed not disclosed a previous claim  and the policy had to be adjusted.  
The fee wasnt paid prior to cancellation, so I think it was reasonable for Insurance Factory 
to apply this charge. 
The charges  also include the insurers charge for time on cover. I think if Mrs H is unhappy 
with this amount,  then she should  raise this directly with the insurer as I can only consider 
Insurance Factorys  actions here.
So I think Insurance Factory has fairly and reasonably applied charges  that were  set out in 
the terms of business  that Mrs H agreed when she took out the policy. I cant  say its done 
anything wrong  or require  it to pay Mrs H any refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0853333