K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains about the poor service  he got from Aviva Insurance  Limited  when he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy after an accident.
background 
Mr E told Aviva  another  driver had driven his car into the rear of Mr Es car and had agreed 
he was at fault. So Mr E wasnt happy when the claim  was later settled with fault split equally 
between him and the other driver. He thought  Aviva  hadnt acted with due diligence  in 
handling his complaint. He said it hadnt  kept him updated and hadnt responded to requests 
he made. In particular, he said he wasnt given access to legal advice. He said when he got 
the car back  from the repairer, the engine kept cutting out and new warning lights were  
showing. So he said the repairer  must have caused  the new damage. Aviva  didnt agree, so 
Mr E had to pay for the extra repairs himself.   
When Aviva  replied to Mr Es complaints, it didnt accept that its contact with him hadnt been 
satisfactory. It didnt  think it had been  slow to act. It said there was no independent evidence 
to support his account of the accident.  It said the engine fault and warning lights were 
reviewed by a dealership  garage.  It said the garage thought there  was a pre-existing fault. 
And it said it had given Mr E the contact details for its solicitors.    
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Es complaint. He thought  Avivas  liability decision was 
reasonable. He thought it could have contacted Mr E a few weeks  earlier than it did after the 
other insurer said liability was disputed.  He also thought its communication with him could 
have been better, especially about  the legal advice he wanted.  He noted that Aviva hadnt  
sent call recordings to Mr E for three months  after his initial  request. He proposed  that Aviva 
should pay Mr E £150 compensation. The investigator didnt  think  it was clear  why Avivas 
engineer thought the fault with Mr Es car was pre-existing. So he said it should  refund Mr E 
for the cost of the diagnostic  tests  and for the work hed had done.  
Aviva agreed that its service could have been  better, so it agreed to pay Mr E £150 
compensation. It said its engineer had reviewed what the dealership garage said and 
thought the fault was due to wear and tear. The investigator asked for more  details of the 
reasoning behind that. He didnt think Aviva had provided anything to clarify the issue, so his 
view remained  the same. Aviva asked  for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy Aviva has the right to settle any claim as it sees fit. But it has to be able to 
show that it acted  reasonably in doing  so. I think it has done that in this case.
Its clear from the file notes that Aviva reviewed  all the details it had carefully - and sought  a 
legal view - before making a decision.  Mr E had put forward a very full account of what  
happened, so I can see why he was upset with the outcome. But there  was no independent 
evidence to support  either of the parties  versions of events. In these circumstances,  I think it 
was reasonable  for Aviva to agree  to a 50:50  split on liability.  
Aviva has accepted that its service could have been  better. I can see from the file that it 
could have explained some issues to Mr E better, and I think  it should have responded to 
Ref: DRN05739862some of his requests sooner  than it did. But I think paying Mr E £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is a reasonable way to deal with these issues.  
Ive seen the lengthy report and images  created by Avivas repairer when it carried out the 
initial review  of Mr Es car. Its clear from the images that the warning lights that were 
showing after the repairs were done  werent showing at the start. The repairer noted that the 
engine was cutting  out only after the repairs were done. Mr E says that had never happened 
before. Theres no reason  to disbelieve him  and it seems very likely that warning lights  
associated with the fault would have shown, had the problem  been  there  at the start. 
The report  from the dealership garage  doesnt say the faults causing the warning lights  to 
show were pre-existing.  It says theres a suspected fault with an injector or the fuel pump. 
Avivas engineer didnt  set out any reasoning to explain  why he thought the problem must 
have been pre-existing. Nor did he comment on the new warning lights,  despite  Aviva being 
aware of Mr Es concerns about these issues. The investigator queried  the lack of any 
comments, but Aviva didnt provide  any further explanation even then. 
I can only base my decision on the available evidence and on what seems more likely  than 
not to have happened. Theres no explanation from Aviva to show why it thought the fault in 
question was pre-existing. So taking everything  else into account, I think it seems  more likely 
than not that it wasnt pre-existing. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to 
refund Mr E for his outlay  on the repairs, plus interest.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to do the 
following:
Pay Mr E £150 compensation for distress  and inconvenience, as agreed
Subject to evidence,  refund Mr E for the cost of the diagnostics  / repairs he paid for
Add interest, at the simple yearly  rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
If Aviva thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0573986