K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Saga Investment Services, as an Appointed Representative of 
Tilney Investment Management Services Limited,  wrongly sold shares  in his ISA portfolio  to 
pay for fees instead  of taking these from dividend  income. He also complains about the 
overall service he was provided with.
background
Mr Gs complaint was brought jointly with a complaint about his wifes (Mrs Gs) ISA portfolio 
that related to an incorrect valuation of her portfolio which led to her being overcharged fees. 
This is the subject of a separate complaint but Tilney dealt with both complaints together and 
offered £200 overall for distress and inconvenience. On referral to our service it confirmed 
this should be split so that £100 was offered to Mr G and £100 to Mrs G.
Mr G confirmed initially that the only issue in relation to his portfolio was that fees were taken 
by selling shares rather than from dividend income.  One of our investigators considered this 
complaint and said that the agreement was for payment of fees by sale of shares if there 
wasnt enough in the cash account. 
But he thought  Tilney should  pay something for the trouble and upset caused because there 
was a discussion about the fees being paid from dividend income. He thought the £100 
Tilney had offered  for this was reasonable.
Mr G subsequently  indicated he agreed with the investigator with regard to the £100 offered 
over the issue over how the fees were  paid. But he didnt think Tilney had provided the 
service it shouldve done and was unhappy with having had to pay fees for a service he says 
he didnt receive. This wasnt part of the original complaint  considered by the investigator but 
Tilney agreed it could be looked at as part of this complaint.
There was subsequent email correspondence  between the investigator and the parties  about  
the overall service  provided but the investigator  wasnt satisfied on the evidence  he had 
been given that the service was such that Mr G was entitled to any further  redress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G complained specifically about  the way Saga took its fees from his portfolio. He moved 
his ISA portfolio  to Saga in 2016 and signed an agreement for the advised investment 
service he wanted on 24 February 2016. The agreement included the following:
To pay the fee from your advisory account  you understand that we will firstly  exhaust  any 
uninvested cash from your cash account  before redeeming units from your biggest holding in 
each account.  The redemption of units may constitute a tax disposal for Capital Gains  Tax 
(CGT) purposes  if held outside of an ISA or SIPP  and there  is a risk of capital erosion where 
fund growth does not compensate for the redemption of units.
So it was only if there wasnt  enough  in the cash account that shares would be sold. Mr G 
has indicated he doesnt take issue with Saga selling shares to pay fees where  there wasnt 
sufficient money available to pay these. His issue is that he had agreed  with his adviser that 
Ref: DRN06753222he wanted fees to be paid from the income  generated by the portfolio  in effect  from the 
dividends received from his various  shareholdings.
Mr G has referred  to the Investment Proposal  Review dated May 2016. Within  this there is 
reference to questions that Mr G answered  in relation to his risk, one of which  stated as 
follows:
In Question 7) you stated that you had an equal objective of income  and growth. After 
discussing this further you confirmed there  is no specific  need  for an income as your current  
lifestyle is self-sufficient. However  you confirmed  that you would like any income  that is 
produced by the portfolio  to be paid out so it can be used  to cover the fees.
So I think it is more likely  than not there  was a discussion  about using dividend income from 
the portfolio to pay fees as Mr G has suggested.  But I dont think this is inconsistent with the 
agreed terms that showed fees would be paid first from the cash  account  and secondly  from 
sale of shares. Mr G could use the income from the portfolio to pay into the cash  account  so 
that there  wouldnt be a need to sell shares, unless  the dividend  income wasnt  sufficient. 
From the statements I have seen it appears  that the dividend payments  were paid by way of 
BACS payments  into Mr Gs joint bank  account  with Mrs G on a regular basis.  I think  this 
arguably complied with what the Investment  Proposal Review  recorded about the income 
being paid out so it could  be used to cover fees as Mr G could use this to money to pay into 
his cash account  in the ISA. 
I accept that this may not have been what Mr G intended and he may have  thought that 
Saga would retain enough from the dividends to pay the fees so there may have been a 
misunderstanding about what should  happen. But I think the £100 offered by Tilney for any 
distress and inconvenience caused reasonably compensates Mr G for this.
The second  issue  raised by Mr G, after referral of his complaint to us, is about  the overall 
service he received from Saga. He has in particular  referred to the six monthly statements 
which he was entitled to which he says were never sent to him. Tilney has said that these 
were never going to be sent to him in the post as the service  offered was an online service 
and the statements wouldve  been viewable online.  Mr G doesnt agree and has referred  to 
the agreement  with Saga which included:
Six monthly statements  that provide you with a detailed performance analysis. Online 
reporting is available 24 hours a day.
I understand why Mr G may have thought the statements  would be sent in the post.  But Im 
not satisfied these werent available for Mr G to view online or that they shouldve been 
provided by post.  
It is also worth noting that if Mr G expected six monthly statements to be sent he couldve 
asked for them  to be provided  when these werent received. But I have seen no evidence  he 
did so before the issue around Mrs Gs portfolio valuation  being wrong that arose in 2018.   
Tilney has provided some  limited evidence  of various communications  with Mr G over the 
time he was invested  showing  limited  contact with Mr G. It has indicated this isnt a complete 
record. Having considered all the evidence I think the service it provided couldve been 
better but Im not satisfied  that Mr G is entitled  to any refund of fees for any failure of service  
on the evidence  I have been given.  
Ref: DRN06753223Im also not persuaded that this requires any increased payment for distress and 
inconvenience given  I have seen no evidence he raised any issue  about Saga not providing 
the service he expected  before the current complaint - which arose as a result  of him 
becoming aware of an issue  over the valuation of Mrs Gs portfolio rather  than because  he 
was unhappy  with the service.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0675322