K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr A under  a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse  that he 
electronically signed in August 2017. The car was nearly three years old and had been  
driven for 63,380 miles. Mr A returned the car to a manufacturers dealer the following  month  
because of a noise issue  but it couldnt find a fault.  
Mr A took the car to another  manufacturers  dealer in November 2017 because  the car was 
pulling to the left and it recommended a wheel alignment. Further  work was carried  out in 
December 2017  and a ticking noise was identified so the cars head bearings and top 
mounts were  replaced and the wheel alignment was completed. But the noise issue 
continued and in January  2018 the shocker tops were replaced (and the seat backrest didnt 
lock into position  so a replacement was ordered and later installed) and in April 2018  the 
power steering  rack was replaced. 
That dealer  repaired  a scuff and seat trim as a gesture  of goodwill and said that it was going  
to cover two months finance payments because of the time it had taken to diagnose the 
problem. Mr A complained to Black Horse and it arranged  for a desktop mechanical  
inspection by an independent expert.  Mr A wasnt satisfied with Black  Horses response so 
complained to this service. He says that he wants to reject the car, that it was with a dealer 
from April to September 2018 and that he should  receive compensation for his loss of 
earnings. Mr A then sold the car and settled his hire purchase agreement in May 2019.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that 
Mr A had told Black Horse  that he was a painter and decorator so he couldnt consider his 
claim for loss of earnings  as a taxi driver. He said that he wouldve recommended a full 
inspection of the car to determine  if there were any on-going  faults - and Black Horse  had 
agreed to that  but the car had been  sold so wasnt available for inspection. He said that 
Mr A had accepted  the previous repairs and there  was no evidence  that there was an on-
going problem  or whether the problems wouldve been present or developing at the point of 
sale. So he said that he was unable to recommend rejection of the car. 
But he thought  that it was more likely  than not that the problems with the car were either 
developing at the point of sale or that they developed within  an unreasonable amount of time 
after purchase. Mr A had been offered two months payments back  and he recommended 
that Black  Horse should refund  the payments that Mr A made for the time when he was 
without a courtesy car (taking into account  any refund already received) and that it should 
pay him £100 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused for multiple visits to the garage. 
Mr A has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that he is a painter and decorator but he does part time work as a private  hire driver (which 
is different to being a taxi driver) and that he was offered two monthly payments and each 
one is £1,000 but he only received £1,000. And he says that £100  compensation isnt 
enough for the time that he was without a courtesy  car.
Ref: DRN05352062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr A was nearly 
three years old, had been driven for 63,380 miles and had a price  of £23,982. Satisfactory 
quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car must  be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
Its clear from the repairs that have  been  made to the car that there have been faults with it. 
Although a fault couldnt be found  when Mr A took the car to a manufacturers dealer in 
September 2017, a noise issue has since been identified and a number of repairs  have been 
attempted.  
Mr A has accepted those  repairs   and hes sold the car and settled his agreement.  A 
desktop mechanical inspection of the car took place in June 2018 but I consider that a full 
inspection of the car would be required to show whether or not the car continues to be faulty. 
But Mr A has sold the car and settled his agreement - so it isnt possible for the car to be 
inspected. Nor is it possible for Mr A to now reject the car. 
Mr A has been provided with a courtesy  car for some - but not all - of the time that he has 
been without his car because it was being repaired. The evidence that Ive seen shows  that 
the car was with the dealer from April to September 2018  but that Mr A was provided with 
a courtesy during that time. Mr A says that he was without his car or a courtesy car for five 
months  but he hasnt  provided evidence to show that despite  being specifically asked to do 
so. And from the evidence  that Ive seen  it seems to me that there  was a total of about  
sixteen days when  he didnt have his car or a courtesy car. Mr A says that hes received 
£1,000 from the dealer as a refund  of two monthly  payments under the agreement.  The 
monthly payment  is £472.14. As Mr A says that hes received a refund from the dealer of two 
monthly payments,  Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Black Horse  to refund to him any further payments for those sixteen days.
These events will also have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr A. And I agree with the 
investigator that it would  be fair and reasonable for Black Horse to pay him £100  to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. Im not persuaded that a higher 
amount of compensation for that distress  and inconvenience is justified in these 
circumstances.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr A is a painter and decorator. But Mr A says that 
he also works part time as a private  hire driver. But if Mr A had told Black Horse  that he was 
going to use the car for private hire work I consider it to be more  likely than not that Black  
Horse wouldve only provided credit to him on substantially different terms. And Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay any compensation to 
Mr A in these circumstances for any loss of earnings  as a private hire driver  that hes 
sustained. And, other than the compensation detailed above, I find that it wouldnt  be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Black Horse to take any other action  in response to Mr As 
complaint.
Ref: DRN05352063my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part. And I order Black 
Horse Limited to pay £100 to Mr A to compensate  him for the distress  and inconvenience 
that hes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0535206