K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her an income  protection  
insurance policy. 
background
Mrs S was sold an income protection insurance  policy during a meeting with Nationwide in 
1999.
The policy was cancelled in 2004.  
In 2018, Mrs S complained to Nationwide about the sale of a number of insurance  policies.  
She said she thought  the income protection policy  was compulsory, was unaware  she had it 
and believed  it was inappropriate  for her circumstances. 
Nationwide looked  into Mrs Ss complaint but didnt think the income protection insurance 
policy had been  mis-sold.  As Mrs S remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why. 
I understand Nationwide concluded that a different insurance policy  had been mis-sold to 
Mrs S during  the same  meeting. But different insurance policies provide cover for different 
insured events, and have  different benefits and exclusions. So the fact that one insurance  
policy was mis-sold by the same advisor doesnt  automatically mean  Mrs Ss income 
protection insurance policy  was also mis-sold.  When making  a decision about this complaint, 
Ive only considered whether I think Mrs Ss income  protection policy was sold in the correct 
way. 
Nationwide recommended the income  protection insurance policy to Mrs S. This means it 
needed to give her information  about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. It 
also needed to ensure  the policy was suitable  for her needs. 
The Personal Financial Review document completed at the time the policy  was sold shows 
Mrs S was asked how important protecting her income against illness and/or disability was. 
The documents note this was important to Mrs S. Her sick pay entitlement from her 
employer was recorded as being 13 weeks full pay. The income protection  policy sold to 
Mrs S was designed to replace lost earnings in the event of an accident or long term 
sickness and was set up for payments to commence  after 13 weeks.  So I think  the policy  
met Mrs Ss requirements at the time. 
I understand Mrs S says there  was an error  with the sick pay details  of the other  party on the 
Personal Financial Review. However this wouldnt have impacted  on whether Mrs Ss 
income protection policy was suitable  for her, based  on her own circumstances.  
Ref: DRN01151632Mrs S says her attitude to risk was recorded  as balanced and she would have wanted 
protection in the event of being unable to work for a couple of weeks at most. I understand 
Mrs S had savings and says she would have  had enough to live on for up to a year. 
However the purpose of insurance  is to cover unexpected events and this policy could have 
been a useful benefit if Mrs S was unexpectedly unable  to work due to an accident or long-
term sickness. The policy wouldve provided a replacement  income,  allowing Mrs S to keep  
her savings or use them for other  things.   
Mrs S had the benefit of cover while the income  protection insurance policy was in force and, 
based on the details contained in the Personal Financial Review, I think the policy seems 
affordable for her. 
Mrs S has referenced  a previous decision on our website about the sale of an income 
protection insurance policy. However the sale of every policy  involves different policyholders 
who are likely to have  different levels of income and expenditure as well as different assets  
and priorities. We consider each complaint based  on its own individual facts.  Mrs Ss policy 
provides cover for up to a maximum of three-fifths of her gross earnings, taking into account 
any state benefit entitlement. Based on the information recorded in the Personal Financial 
Review, I dont think Mrs S was over-insured.  
Mrs S has also mentioned she continued  to pay premiums for this policy when she was on 
maternity leave. But this doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold or unsuitable for her. The 
policy provides for cover  to be maintained in full for twelve months in the event of maternity 
leave, and its up to the policyholder to let the insurer know  about any changes  in their 
circumstances. 
Overall, I think Nationwide gave  Mrs S an appropriate level of information about  the income 
protection policy and I dont think  it was unsuitable  for her needs. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs S has said about  thinking the policy  was compulsory,  and 
not knowing she had it. 
The documents signed by Mrs S describe the income protection policy as a 
recommendation. And not all of the recommendations made  by Nationwide  were followed  by 
Mrs S. I can appreciate there may have  been many documents  for Mrs S to read and sign at 
the time but I think the paperwork Ive seen  shows the income protection policy  wasnt 
compulsory. I dont  have  any evidence, beyond what Mrs S has told us, that she was given 
any false information or put under  any undue  pressure to buy the policy.  
I can see Mrs S was sent a welcome pack about the income  protection policy  in 1999, as 
well as annual renewal  letters in the years up until the policy  was cancelled.  So, Im satisfied 
Mrs S ought  reasonably  to have known she had the policy.  
This means  I dont  think Nationwide  mis-sold  the income protection  insurance policy to 
Mrs S. 
I understand Mrs S is also unhappy with how Nationwide  shared information  about her 
insurance policy and how it addressed  its final response letter. As our investigator has 
explained, if Mrs S wishes to complain about  this shed need to raise  the matter with 
Nationwide directly before this service could look into any complaint about it.  
Ref: DRN01151633my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0115163