K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) closed his account unfairly and 
didnt call him back to discuss his account  transactions when it said it would.
background
Mr I had a basic bank  account with Nationwide. On 7 January 2019, Mr I called Nationwide  
to report his debit  card lost or stolen. Mr I was asked about the recent  transactions  on his 
account and said he didnt recognise  some  payments made  to a third party, who Ill refer to 
as B.
Nationwide raised  a fraud claim in respect  of the transactions Mr I said he didnt recognise.  
And arranged to call him back  on 10 January, to discuss  the remaining transactions.  Mr Is 
fraud claim  was not successful: Nationwide said the transactions had been authorised using  
the cards chip and PIN. And that Mr I had previous credits and debits to B on his account.
Nationwide then closed  Mr Is account, saying it had security concerns in relation to his 
operation of the account. Nationwide issued a letter to Mr I on 9 January 2019, advising his 
account would be closed on 14 January 2019.
The call handler, who agreed  to call Mr I on 10 January 2019, decided  not to call him in light 
of what had happened since she first spoke with Mr I.
Mr I complained, saying he did remember making  the transactions  he disputed after all. And 
that Nationwide should have pressed him to double check. Mr I wanted Nationwide to re-
open his account. And to pay him compensation for failing to call him back  to discuss his 
account transactions.
Our investigator said she cant tell Nationwide to re-open Mr Is account, as its entitled to 
choose who it wants to do business  with. But she did think  that Nationwide  should have 
given Mr I two months notice, when it decided to close his account. And that Nationwides  
advisor should have called  Mr I back.
Our investigator noted Mr I had a separate bank account with Santander, so she didnt think 
it would  have made much difference  if Nationwide  had given  Mr I more notice. But she 
recognised the stress and anxiety Mr I must have suffered, as a result of Nationwide not 
calling him back to discuss the transactions. So she said Nationwide should pay Mr I £50 to 
put things right.
Mr I rejected our investigators  opinion, and asked for an ombudsman  to review the matter 
afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. It can make  commercial decisions about who it offers  banking  services 
Ref: DRN05513222to, so long as it doesnt unfairly discriminate against a customer. And it can say it no longer 
wishes to do business with individuals. Thats because banks have the commercial freedom 
to decide who they want to contract  with.
Before a bank  closes an account, it must do so in a way that complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Nationwide relied  on section 57(a) of the terms and conditions of Mr Is account  when it 
closed Mr Is account. That section  says:
We may close your account immediately if:
a)you have knowingly used, or attempted to use, your account  for illegal purposes  
Ive looked carefully  at the terms and conditions and Ive listened to the relevant telephone  
call recordings. Having  done so, I havent seen anything  that entitled Nationwide  to close 
Mr Is account in accordance with section 57(a). So it shouldnt  have  closed Mr Is account 
immediately.  
Having said that, I dont think there was any negative  impact on Mr I as a result of 
Nationwide closing Mr Is account without giving him more  notice.  I say this because  at the 
time Mr Is account balance was only £0.80,  he had the use of another account elsewhere  
(with Santander), and he was not using  his Nationwide account to receive  salary  or benefit 
payments. So Im not going to ask Nationwide to do anything.
I know Mr I will be disappointed  with my decision because Ive said Nationwide shouldnt 
have closed his account immediately, but doesnt  have to pay anything as a result  of this. 
However, my role isnt to punish Nationwide but to put Mr I, as far as possible, in the position 
he wouldve been  in if his account hadnt been  closed immediately. And for the reasons Ive 
already explained, I cant  see that Mr A suffered any financial loss or detriment  as a result  of 
Nationwides error. So I cant  make an award in respect of financial loss.
communication and customer service
When Nationwide told Mr I it was closing his account, he explained that he did remember the 
transactions he had previously disputed.  He says he has difficulty remembering things 
sometimes, because he is disabled. And that Nationwide should have asked him if he was 
sure he didnt recognise the transactions, before raising a fraud claim.
Mr I told Nationwide he didnt say the transactions werent made by him and that it was just 
that he couldnt remember them. He says he didnt  submit a fraud request and suggested 
there had been  a miscommunication. So Ive considered whether or not Nationwide  could 
have done more when it opened Mr Is fraud claim.
Ive taken into account Mr Is disability and memory  issues, as well as what was said during  
the phone  calls. Having listened  to a recording of the phone call when Mr I reported his card 
lost or stolen, I dont  think Nationwide  was unclear in what  it was saying. And I dont  think  it 
should have done anything more.  Ill explain  why.
During the call, Mr I repeatedly said he did not make  the transactions  Nationwide  marked  as 
disputed. He said someone was watching  him when he lost his card.  And that he must have 
dropped his oyster wallet, containing his Nationwide card. 
Ref: DRN05513223Mr I also said he had been  shoulder-surfed, to explain  how his card had been used in 
conjunction with his PIN. Nationwide told Mr I a fraud claim would be set up and that it would 
submit a case for a refund. Mr I accepted that and asked  if he needed to go to the Police. 
So, Mr I went  into detail about  how he had fallen victim to fraud, Nationwide explained what 
action it would take as a result, and Mr I authorised Nationwide  to do so. I do not think 
Nationwide was wrong to interpret his words as an intention to submit a fraud claim  and so I 
do not think it should have done anything more to clarify Mr Is request.
Mr I also complained that Nationwide didnt call him back when it said it would. When  Mr I 
first reported  his card lost or stolen,  he told the call handler he was scared and asked if she 
would go through  all of his transactions  with him. Mr I was promised a call back  three  days  
later to go over his transactions.
Ive seen a note from the call handler  that shows she decided  not to call Mr I in light of the 
fact that Nationwide had decided to close his account. While I understand why the call 
handler decided  not to call him back, I think it would  have been right to call Mr I. He was still 
a customer of Nationwide and had expressed  concern at what had happened. So I can see 
that Mr I would have  experienced distress as a result  of not receiving  the call he was 
promised.
To put things right, my decision is that Nationwide should pay Mr I £50 in compensation for 
failing to call him back.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint in part. I direct 
Nationwide Building  Society to pay Mr I compensation of £50 for failing to call him back. But I 
make no award for Nationwide closing Mr Is account. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019. 
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0551322