K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them 
a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1999 when they applied for 
a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M complained to this Service. They said Halifax, the lender, mis-sold them a PPI 
policy in 1999  but they could not recall  how it was sold. They said they didnt know  PPI was 
being bought at the time of the mortgage,  so they say they didnt consent to it being  added 
to their mortgage account; no-one  explained the cost and benefits or the terms and 
conditions to them. They  recall attending a Halifax branch to get the mortgage, so they 
conclude Halifax mis-sold the policy.
Halifax accepted  liability but rejected the mis-sale complaint. Our adjudicator  thought Halifax  
was not responsible for the PPI sale and he sent a detailed letter to Mr and Mrs M exploring  
other avenues of complaint for them.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicators  view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
Mr and Mrs M added  the following points:
they attended a Halifax  branch to get a mortgage;
they met with a Halifax employee;
they were not told the person they dealt with was an intermediary;
Halifax did not tell them  they were not taking their mortgage through  an intermediary;
they only had direct contact with the branch  the contact number  of the intermediary  
is the same as the branch  umber;
they are certain  Halifax  sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether Halifax is responsible for the sale of the PPI policy.  
If I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  If I dont  
think Halifax was responsible for the sale to Mr and Mrs M, then Im not able to consider  a 
PPI mis-sale complaint against it  and this will mean I cannot uphold  the mis-sale  complaint 
against it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think there is enough here to say Halifax sold the 
PPI policy  to Mr and Mrs M. So it follows  that if Halifax did not sell the PPI, I will not be 
upholding this mis-sale complaint against Halifax. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, 
so I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs M told us they were certain  they attended a Halifax  branch to apply for their 
mortgage. They did not know they were  dealing with an intermediary  so they said they 
were seen by a Halifax employee.
Ref: DRN09797162However, Ive seen the evidence submitted by Halifax. It accepts it was the lender at the 
time Mr and Mrs M bought the policy. Ive also seen the mortgage application form which  
clearly shows  Mr and Mrs M were  seen by an intermediary around 28 October  1999 when 
they discussed their mortgage. The application form also covers  PPI; they are both asked 
several questions  about  eligibility and pre-existing medical conditions, so  although they 
may have  paid later for the PPI when the policy started in November  I think  they made 
their decision  to buy PPI during this initial meeting. I havent seen any evidence  to suggest 
the intermediary was a Halifax employee at the time of the sale. I dont think Halifax  was 
responsible for the PPI sale and it follows that it also was not responsible for carrying  out the 
PPI sale properly. So I am not going  to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint against  Halifax.
 Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
M.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M has said - including what they have said about  
not consenting to PPI being added to their mortgage account, not knowing they were buying 
PPI and not being told about the terms and conditions of the policy.  But these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0979716