K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  failed  to warn him that the 
property he was buying has issues with the lease. He says this means he now owns  a 
property that hed struggle to sell, as lenders  are unwilling to grant  a mortgage on it.
background
In 2004 Mr R applied  for a Halifax  mortgage. He was buying a new-build  property under an 
affordable housing scheme.  A valuation of the property was carried out in November 2004 
and the property purchase  completed on 24 May 2005.
Mr R complained to Halifax that he cant sell his property because  of a restriction  known as a 
Section 106 (S106).  He said the surveyor - who was part of the same banking  group as 
Halifax - should have picked up on the problem. Halifax would  have then refused the 
mortgage so he wouldnt have been  able to buy the property. Halifax  rejected the complaint, 
saying the responsibility for checking  that lay with the conveyancer, not Halifax  or the 
surveyor.
Our investigator rejected the complaint.  Mr R didnt agree so its been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr R wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party; I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at, what questions should be answered, or 
what information should be provided. For that reason I wont  be answering all Mr Rs points, 
nor will I be ordering  Halifax to answer  them or send him the information he wants.  
Mr R is free to contact Halifax again directly to request the information it holds about him and 
his mortgage,  but we wont  request the information  for him as we dont need  it for our 
purposes. If Mr R makes a subject access request and feels  Halifax  has withheld information 
hes fairly due under  that request, then thats a matter for the Information Commissioners 
Office (www.ICO.org.uk)  not this service.
This case is a lot more  straightforward than Mr R believes, because  put simply  the 
surveyor had absolutely  no responsibility  to check the lease and/or the S106 restriction.
The Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors  (RICS) has something called the Red Book, 
and that sets out the standards expected of a RICS surveyor. The Red Book says:
For the avoidance of doubt, the valuer  will not be under a duty to purchase data from third 
parties or to read the lease documentation. If further  information is provided to the valuer 
Ref: DRN06291252after the mortgage valuation has been  completed and submitted, the valuer  may reconsider 
the valuation and if necessary issue an amended  report. But again, for the avoidance of 
doubt, the valuer will not be under  any obligation to read the lease document  and would only 
be expected to base a revised valuation on further information provided  to the valuer  by the 
lenders legal representatives.
The same applies for any other  legal  documentation  such as an S106 restriction and/or other  
encumbrances.
Surveyors are trained and qualified to value  properties, theyre not legal experts. Thats why 
conveyancers are part of the property-buying process. Its the conveyancers  role to deal 
with the legal aspects, such as the lease and any restrictions  or encumbrances  on the 
property/land like this S106. If anything comes  to light then the conveyancer  notifies the 
lender explaining clearly  what the problem is and the potential ramifications of it, the lender  
then asks the surveyor if it would alter the valuation given. Thats  completely normal in the 
industry and is what happens day-in-day-out.  Its never the case that the surveyor would be 
expected to read the lease and/or other documents to see if there are any potential issues  
that need to be looked  at.
So its irrelevant that the surveyor was part of the same banking group as Halifax as it had 
no responsibility here anyway. The surveyor did all that was required by noting in the 
valuation report My valuation assumes  there  are no onerous provisions in the lease and 
affordable purchase  document.  You should ask your conveyancer to check the details and 
advise you further. 
Mr R has also said that Halifax failed to do its research and it should have known about the 
S106 restriction. But again that wasnt Halifaxs responsibility. Mr Rs conveyancer was 
acting both on his behalf, and on behalf  of Halifax to ensure its security was protected;  thats 
normal. Halifax has no responsibility  for any action or omission on the part of the 
conveyancer, irrespective of who instructed them. To assist  conveyancers theres something 
called the Council of Mortgage Lenders  handbook which has information about 
conveyancing in England  and Wales. The handbook says:
4. Valuation of The Property
4.1 Check part 2 to see whether we send you a copy  of the valuation report or if you must 
get it from the borrower. If you get a copy of the valuation report from the borrower, we do 
not expect you to check the content of that report matches the information we hold. For 
the avoidance of doubt, regardless of where  the report  is obtained  from, you must carry 
out the checks detailed in sections 4.2 and 4.3.
4.2 You must take reasonable  steps to verify that there are no discrepancies between  the 
description of the property  as valued and the title and other  documents which  a 
reasonably competent conveyancer should obtain, and, if there are, you must tell us 
immediately.
4.3 You should  take reasonable steps to verify that the assumptions stated by the valuer 
about the title (for example, its tenure, easements, boundaries and restrictions  on its use) 
in the valuation and as stated in the mortgage offer are correct. If they are not, please let 
us know as soon  as possible (see part 2) as it will be necessary for us to check  with the 
valuer whether  the valuation needs to be revised. We are not expecting you to assume 
Ref: DRN06291253the role of valuer.  We are simply trying to ensure that the valuer  has valued the property 
based on correct  information.
4.4 We recommend  that you should  advise  the borrower that there may be defects in the 
property which are not revealed  by the inspection  carried  out by our valuer and there  may 
be omissions or inaccuracies  in the report which do not matter to us but which  would 
matter to the borrower. We recommend  that, if we send a copy of a valuation report  that 
we have obtained, you should also advise  the borrower that the borrower should not rely 
on the report in deciding whether to proceed with the purchase  and that he obtains his 
own more detailed report on the condition and value of the property, based  on a fuller  
inspection, to enable  him to decide whether the property is suitable for his purposes.
5.5 Planning and Building Regulations
5.5.4 If the property will be subject  to any enforceable restrictions, for example under an 
agreement (such as an agreement under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning 
Act 1990) or in a planning permission, which, at the time of completion, might  reasonably  
be expected materially  to affect its value  or its future marketability,  you should report this 
to us (see part 2).
5.10 Restrictions on Use and Occupation
5.10.1 You must check  whether  there  are any material  restrictions on the occupation  of 
the property as a private residence  or as specified by us (for example, because of the 
occupier's employment, age or income), or any material  restrictions  on its use. If there are 
any restrictions, you must report details to us (see part 2). We may accept a restriction, 
particularly if this relates to sheltered  housing or to first-time buyers.
6.12 Rights  of Pre-emption and Restriction on Resale
6.12.1 You must ensure  that there are no rights of pre-emption, restrictions on resale, 
options or similar arrangements in existence  at completion which will affect our security. If 
there are, please report this to us (see part 2).
Halifax was reliant on the conveyancer for that part of the process, and because the 
conveyancer didnt notify it of the problem  then it had no reason  to decline the lending. I 
cant consider the actions  of the conveyancer here, because it was a separate  entity from 
Halifax. If he wished to pursue that, Mr R would need to contact the conveyancer  directly  to 
raise his concerns  through its complaints  process. In saying that, Im making no 
recommendation either way on whether Mr R should  complain  to the conveyancer  or what  
possible outcome  might  result from him doing so. 
Its clear that Mr R has been left in an unenviable position through no fault of his own.  But I 
can only consider  a complaint against Halifax based  on what its roles and responsibilities 
were. And here, whilst its clear there  is a serious issue, having  reviewed everything Im 
satisfied Halifax did nothing wrong and so I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN06291254my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0629125