K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complained because The Mortgage  Works  (UK) Plc (TMW) refused to allow  her to 
transfer (port) her buy-to-let mortgage terms to a new residential  mortgage. As a result, 
she had to pay an early  repayment  charge of £9,639.77. 
Mrs F believes TMW should refund  the early repayment charge.
background
Mrs F owned a property which shed lived in before she and her husband moved to a new 
property theyd built next door. She rented out her previous home.  In 2016 Mrs F 
remortgaged the rental property with TMW, using  a broker. She took a buy-to-let mortgage  
with an interest rate of 2.39%, fixed for three  years.
Clause 10 of the mortgage offer set out the early repayment charges (ERC) which  would 
apply if Mrs F were  to repay the mortgage  before  the end of the three  years. This section 
said:
Your  mortgage is portable. This means that if you move house and we are able to offer you 
a new mortgage,  you can transfer the amount you owe on the same terms without having to 
pay any early  redemption  charges...
The decision  whether  or not we will be able to offer you a new mortgage  will depend  on the 
circumstances at the time including  the type of property you want  to buy, your personal 
circumstances and the amount you want to borrow.
On 8 August  2018 Mrs F wrote to TMW. She said she was about to sell the mortgaged  
property, and wanted to transfer the mortgage to the property she and her husband lived in. 
She said this was so she wouldnt incur  any ERC,  and that the property they lived in didnt 
currently have any mortgage.   
Mrs F chased twice for a reply. She also spoke to TMW who told her that she could only port 
the mortgage to another buy-to-let property, not to a residential one. On 12 September, 
TMW sent Mrs F a redemption statement and a document about porting  criteria. The porting  
document said the ERC wouldnt be payable:
 ... provided the following criteria are met:
1.The existing rate / redemption clauses are transferred to the new loan
2.The new capital balance is equal  to or greater than the current capital balance...
3.The completion of the new mortgage  must  be simultaneous with redemption  of this 
loan.
Mrs F wrote back to say that she hadnt  asked for a redemption statement. But as she read 
it, the adviser had confirmed that the mortgage was portable without  the condition  shed  
been told over the phone, that the new mortgage  would  have to be on a buy-to-let property. 
But TMW said Mrs F would have to pay an ERC  unless she was transferring it to another 
buy-to-let property. 
Mrs F complained. She said the issue was clause 10 of the mortgage  offer.  This had said the 
mortgage was portable  subject  to TMWs  ability to offer a new mortgage. These 
circumstances included  the type of property but not anything to do with the use of the 
Ref: DRN02421292property  in other  words,  that it had to be a let property. Mrs F said that if TMW  was now 
seeking to impose  a condition that it had to be let, this hugely  significant condition should  
have been clearly stated at the outset. 
Mrs F also complained that TMW had told her in a phone  call that it didnt  do residential 
mortgages, and said Mrs F should  have known this when she took out the product. Mrs F 
didnt accept that she should  have  checked  the website about this, when she took out the 
mortgage. She said she didnt know TMW only did buy-to-let mortgages until shed  asked to 
port the mortgage to her residential property.
TMW didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint.  It said that Mrs F could only port her mortgage  if TMW  
offered her a new mortgage. And as it didnt offer mortgages on residential properties, TMW 
couldnt offer her a new mortgage.  It said it didnt  have  to say in all porting literature that it 
wouldnt allow porting  to a residential  mortgage, when it didnt lend on a residential  basis. 
TMW also said that its wording said that porting had to be on the same  terms. A residential 
mortgage wouldnt be on the same terms as a buy-to-let one. So it refused  to refund Mrs Fs 
ERC.
Mrs F wasnt satisfied  and complained  to this service. She said the mortgage  had been  
mis-sold to her if it was only portable to another buy-to-let property. This information hadnt 
been stated in the mortgage offer or any other information available to her when shed 
accepted the offer.  She said TMW acted in breach of contract by not considering her 
application to port the mortgage  to a residential  property.
Mrs F said she didnt  agree that clause 10 of the offer could be interpreted in the way TMW  
claim. She said that any policy  of excluding residential properties from porting  should have 
been stated clearly at the time of the mortgage offer. She pointed  out that there was also no 
mention of this restriction in the porting criteria which TMW had sent to her on 
12 September.
TMW had said the information had been available on its website but Mrs F said that as shed 
obtained her mortgage  offer through a broker,  she hadnt known what  was on TMWs  
website. And the mortgage documents hadnt  referred her to the website. Mrs F also said 
that shed looked at what was currently on TMWs  website and it specifically referred to 
residential mortgages. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Fs complaint. She said that as Mrs F had got her 
mortgage through a broker, any complaints about  the sale or advice of the mortgage would 
have to be raised against the broker. But looking at what  TMW  had done, the investigator 
said that the key phrase in the documentation was on the same terms. The terms were  
different for a residential and buy-to-let mortgage. She also said that on TMWs current  
website, it suggested  TMW didnt do residential mortgages. The investigator noted that 
Mrs F had found residential mortgages offered by another lender in the same commercial  
group, not by TMW itself.
Mrs F didnt  agree, and there were further conversations  and emails between Mrs F and the 
investigator. In summary, Mrs F said that she believed  TMW had acted unfairly and in 
breach of contract by refusing to consider her application to port the mortgage to a 
residential property.  So her complaint turned on the interpretation of clause  10 of the 
mortgage offer. Mrs F didnt think the investigator  had interpreted  this in a way in which  a 
reasonable person would have understood it to mean. She also attached an extract from a 
Ref: DRN02421293current TMW publication which set out rates, including  those for residential  mortgages. She 
also said that TMW was a wholly-owned  subsidiary of another  lender in the same  
commercial group, which did offer residential  mortgages. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its correct that Mrs F would have to bring any complaint that her mortgage was 
mis-sold in 2016 against the broker, not TMW. It was the broker who had the responsibility  
for making  sure the mortgage was suitable for Mrs Fs needs.  This complaint is against TMW 
as the lender, so I cant consider in this decision whether or not the mortgage was mis-sold 
by the broker. 
I recognise that Mrs F is frustrated that her plan to transfer the mortgage to her residential 
property couldnt  happen, because she feels she wasnt  given the full picture at the outset.  
The key to Mrs Fs complaint against the lender is the interpretation  of clause 10 of the 
mortgage offer. This was her contract  with the lender. As Ive set out above, this said: 
Your  mortgage is portable. This means that if you move house and we are able to offer you 
a new mortgage,  you can transfer the amount you owe on the same terms without having to 
pay any early  redemption  charges.
The important part of this is the phrase if you move house and we are able to offer you a 
new mortgage. Mrs F wasnt  redeeming the buy to let mortgage in order to move house. 
Clause 10 also refers  to the type of property  you want to buy. Mrs F wasnt  buying a new 
property, nor was she moving house, and many lenders  wont  allow  a mortgage to be ported 
unless there  is a purchase of a new property.
And TMW  wasnt  able to offer Mrs F a new mortgage on a residential basis.  It didnt offer 
them. The fact that TMW was part of a larger commercial group, which included a large  
lender of residential mortgages, doesnt make any difference. Each lender is a discrete  entity 
and will have  its own lending criteria. Mrs F couldnt  have something  that the lender she 
applied to  TMW   didnt offer. As TMW didnt offer new residential mortgages,  it couldnt 
offer her a mortgage, because what she wanted didnt comply with its lending criteria which 
said the mortgaged  property would have had to be a commercial  buy-to-let one
I understand Mrs Fs frustration and her argument that nothing  in the mortgage offer told her 
that TMW didnt offer residential mortgages. And I dont accept TMWs argument that Mrs F 
should have known from its website that it didnt offer residential mortgages.  Id expect 
someone taking out a mortgage to read their offer documentation and terms and conditions 
carefully. But it wasnt a requirement for Mrs F as a new borrower to look at a lenders  
website as well, or familiarise herself with what TMW did and didnt sell. Mrs Fs mortgage  
wasnt an online one or app-based one, and there was nothing in the documentation  she 
was sent which required her to do this. 
But there can be many reasons why a lender wouldnt  be able to offer a mortgage  to 
someone who hoped to port their existing product. I wouldnt  expect TMW to set out every  
possible reason  why a new mortgage  application  wouldnt  be accepted.
. 
Ref: DRN02421294Mrs F has also said that her property complied with the criteria in clause 10. But the lending  
criteria only include  those things. The list isnt exhaustive. And if a consumer has plans  to 
change their mortgage arrangements in future, its for them to ensure that the mortgage can 
do that, by asking the lender or broker.
Finally, I dont consider  it was at all helpful  that TMW  sent Mrs F a standard document 
headed Porting  criteria  with its 12 September 2018 letter. This document doesnt say 
anything about  the fact that the terms had to be the same. Mrs F reacted to this document by 
replying to TMW that it had confirmed  a new mortgage didnt have to be on a buy-to-let 
property. But however incomplete this 12 September document  was, it couldnt overturn 
what was in Mrs Fs mortgage offer. That was the legal document  which  she had accepted. 
And that mortgage  offer stated that the terms of the new mortgage had to be the same.  They 
couldnt be, if one was a buy-to-let and the other  residential. So I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0242129