K820x#14complaint
Miss W and Mr N have  complained about  their home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) because it has only offered settlement  to the value of £750 for around £2,500  
worth of tools that were  stolen from their van whilst it was parked on the drive of their home 
overnight.
background
In January 2019 Miss W and Mr N parked their van on their drive  overnight.  They had a 
number of tools stored in the partitioned rear of the van. When they got up the next morning 
they found the van doors and the glove compartment  open. The tools  were gone. They 
reported the matter  to the police and RSA.
RSA noted that there was no damage to the van. It referred to the terms of the cover and 
noted that theft from unattended vehicles is excluded  unless at the time of loss or damage  
force and violence were  used to get into the motor vehicle, and the items stolen were out of 
sight in a boot or closed  compartment . The lack of damage, RSA said,  meant  no violence 
had been used and the claim  failed. But, RSA said, as the van was parked on the drive  and 
the policy offered  cover  for items in the open stolen from the grounds of the home, it would 
settle the claim in line with the limit available  on the policy  for this cover (£750).
Miss W and Mr N didnt  think  RSAs  decision  was fair. They said the police said a device had 
been used to gain entry to the vehicle and there were a number of thefts  in their area around 
that time which showed that was likely the case.  When RSA wouldnt change  its decision 
Miss W and Mr N complained to this service.
Our investigator felt RSA hadnt done  enough  to show  it could reasonably rely on the 
exclusion as it was possible violent  entry  had been  gained to the vehicle without leaving 
obvious signs of damage.  So she felt RSA should  reasonably pay Miss W and Mr Ns claim, 
less the £750 limit available  for contents in the open (on the basis  RSA had already paid
£750 to Miss W and Mr N).
RSA said that as there was no sign of physical damage, it couldnt be certain  Miss W and 
Mr N had locked the vehicle. But it said it was still prepared to settle the claim by replacing 
tools to the value of £750  under  the policy cover for contents in the open.
As the matter couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to consider. I felt the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. I issued a provisional decision to share my findings with both parties. 
RSA said it had nothing  to add, Miss W and Mr N received  my decision but didnt reply to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally that, having done so, and with regret for any disappointment this causes 
Miss W and Mr N, I didnt  intend to uphold their complaint. I went  on to explain:
Whilst this theft took place from their driveway,  the policy gives  Miss W and Mr N cover  for 
their personal possessions around the world. But, as set out above,  that cover  excludes:
Ref: DRN09833202theft from an unattended motor vehicle  unless at the time of loss or damage  for and 
violence were used  to get into the motor vehicle, and the items stolen were out of sight  in a 
boot or closed compartment.
It is true that where an insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to defeat the claim  it is up to it 
to show it can reasonably do that. But the wording in question here isnt, strictly speaking, 
just an exclusion.  The policys use of the word  unless  means  that only the first part of the 
term (before the hyphen) is an exclusion.  The remainder (after the word unless)  is 
effectively a definition  as it states what the policy does cover. In terms of policy  cover, it is up 
to the policyholder to show their loss occurred  in line with the wording of the policy.  If they 
cant show that is most likely then the insurer can, on a strict interpretation  of the policy, 
decline the claim.
The only part of the policy wording that RSA has taken  issue with is the word  violence.  It 
seems to accept the circumstances met the rest of the wording. So if it seems that Miss W 
and Mr N havent shown  violence was most likely  used to gain entry to their vehicle  not 
just that it might have  been, or that its possible, then their claim will fail. That is unless a fair 
and reasonable reason exists to say RSA should  ignore the term and settle the claim 
anyway.
Miss W and Mr N believe that a device was used to gain entry  to their vehicle. It is known 
that thieves use both electronic devices (often to jam the locking signal or override the 
electronic lock in some  way) and/or manual devices (such as picklocks). Whether or not use 
of such a device  equates  to violence,  if such a device was likely used, that might  well provide 
a fair and reasonable reason for the strict  wording of the policy term to be ignored and the 
claim be paid.
Miss W and Mr N report that the police told them a device was likely used during their theft. 
But I havent seen  any evidence direct from the police  sharing such a view. I have seen a 
police report which details  thefts  from vehicles in the area covered by the police force in 
question. This does  show a number of thefts  over a few days  in a roughly ten-mile  area 
around Miss W and Mr Ns home.  But I note that only one record  clearly refers  to a device 
being used to gain entry to the vehicle. That incident occurred a couple of days before 
Miss W and Mr Ns theft and about ten miles away. The report  isnt sufficient for me to 
conclude that a device was most likely used by thieves to gain entry  to Miss W and Mr Ns 
vehicle.
What I think about the theft data obtained from the police is important because a 
consideration of what is fair will include taking into account what  the purpose of the policy 
term in question is and the circumstances of the event that occurred, including, on occasion, 
the likely  actions of the policyholder.
The purpose of the term in question here is to minimise the risk of theft. Essentially RSA 
doesnt want to provide  theft cover in the event vehicles are left unlocked. If vehicles are left 
unlocked then that makes  the work  of even a casual thief very easy.  Insurance is all about 
risk and items left in an unlocked vehicle are at high risk of being stolen. RSA doesnt want 
to offer cover for that, and that is understandable.
The lack of obvious damage does  suggest, unfortunately for Miss W and Mr N, that their 
vehicle may not have  been locked. And the evidence theyve provided, as explained above, 
doesnt suggest its most likely that it was locked or theyd attempted  to lock it but that a 
device was used  to prevent the vehicle  locking or to overcome  its locks. Whilst its a 
Ref: DRN09833203possibility Im not sure its most likely, or that its any more likely than the proposition  that the 
vehicle had been left unlocked. As such I think it was fair for RSA to rely on the wording not 
having been met in order to defeat its liability  for the claim.
I think it was also fair for RSA to offer settlement under the in the open cover available  on 
the policy. If Miss W and Mr N want RSA to provide replacements to them in this respect  they 
should contact  it directly.
As neither party has objected to my findings, Ive no cause to change  them.  My provisional 
findings are now the findings of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0983320