K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society refused to process his chargeback request.
background
Mr B purchased a light from a retailer and paid using his Nationwide  credit card.
When the light was delivered the courier company asked  Mr B to pay additional customs 
fees.
Mr B refused  to pay the additional  fees and opened  a dispute with the merchant. He says the 
merchant agreed to refund the customs fees if he paid them. The courier attempted delivery 
again but Mr B refused to accept the item and told the merchant he no longer wanted it.
Mr B subsequently received a partial refund from the merchant. He complained to 
Nationwide and asked  it to process  a chargeback.
In response, Nationwide said that Mr B shouldve  paid the additional customs  fees and 
provided proof of payment  to the merchant so that he could claim a refund. It said there  was 
no basis to raise a chargeback dispute because the merchant had supplied the item.
Mr B wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that the merchants terms and 
conditions stated that it would refund any additional  customs fees that Mr B was asked to 
pay. He said that by refusing to accept delivery and advising the merchant he no longer 
wanted the item, Mr B had cancelled the order, and that the terms and conditions meant that 
he was entitled  to a 50% refund, which hed received. The investigator said that in the 
circumstances, neither a chargeback nor a section 75 claim was likely  to be successful.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed paid for shipping and insurance at the time of purchase and 
that there  was nothing  in the terms and conditions which said he would be expected  to pay 
this twice. He also said it was unreasonable for the merchant to refund only 50% of the price.
Mr B was also unhappy that Nationwide hadnt explained his rights to make a claim under  
section 75.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is when  a consumer questions a transaction and asks the card issuer  to 
reverse it. The main requirement  in order to get money back via chargeback is to show that 
theres been a breach of contract. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback  and no 
obligation on a bank to raise a chargeback if it doesnt think it will be successful. 
Ive looked at what happened in Mr Bs case to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to his request for a chargeback.
Ref: DRN01760692Mr B has said that he paid for shipping and insurance when he purchased the item.  This isnt 
in dispute. I can see the item was delivered to Mr B and it was at this point that he was 
asked to pay additional customs fees.
The terms and conditions  on the merchants website state that it will cover any additional 
customs fees if proof that these fees have  been  paid is provided.  In other words, if Mr B had 
paid the customs  fees and sent a copy of the receipt to the merchant, the fees wouldve 
been refunded  to him. Because of this, I dont agree with Mr B when he says that he was 
being asked to pay shipping fees twice. The additional customs  fees would have been 
refunded. 
Because the merchant supplied the item in accordance  with the terms and conditions,  
theres been no breach of contract. Im unable to say that Nationwide acted unreasonably in 
deciding not to raise  the chargeback.
I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy that hes only received a 50% refund. When  Mr B told the 
merchant he no longer wanted  the item, this amounted to a cancellation of the order.  The 
merchants terms and conditions state that in the event of a cancellation, the customer will 
be responsible  for 50% of the purchase  price.  I can see that Mr B has received a 50% 
refund, which  is what hes entitled to under  the terms and conditions. Im not persuaded that 
theres been a breach of contract here.
Mr B has said that these terms and conditions  werent on the merchants website  at the time 
when he purchased his item. I havent seen  anything to suggest  that the terms and 
conditions werent  in force at the time,  or that there  was some  other  term  relating to 
cancellation which should take effect.
Ive considered whether Mr B could bring  a claim under section 75. Section 75 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against  the finance  provider if theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation.
Based on what Ive seen,  and as Ive already said, Im not persuaded that theres been a 
breach of contract in this case. The item was delivered to Mr B so the contract was fulfilled. 
Nor am I able to say that theres been  a misrepresentation , because theres nothing  in the 
merchants terms and conditions which says Mr B wouldnt have to pay additional customs  
fees. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
refusing the chargeback request. I wont be asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0176069