K821x#15complaint
Mr S (through his representative) complains about unsuitable advice from Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd in connection with his pension. He says he was advised to make an 
unnecessary transfer to a new pension platform.
background
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 3 December 2019. A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A, and forms part of this final decision.
Mr S and Quilter didnt make  any further  representations in response to my provisional  
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. 
I think Mr S would have invested  differently. As Ive already said, if Quilter had given suitable 
advice to Mr S, I think its unlikely he wouldve transferred his pension  fund out of the fund 
he was invested  in. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr Ss circumstances and objectives when he invested.
 
what should  Quilter do?
 
To compensate Mr S fairly,  Quilter  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ss investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
Quilter should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Quilter  should pay into Mr Ss pension plan to increase its value  by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Quilter  is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
Ref: DRN03626342The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Quilter should  give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Cirilium  
Dynamic 
Portfolio R 
Acc GBPstill existsNewton 
Balanced Funddate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr S paid into the investment should  be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.  
Ref: DRN03626343why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because I think that if Quilter had given suitable 
advice to Mr S, its likely he wouldve  remained invested in the Newton Balanced Fund  with 
Aegon.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr S 
the amount calculated  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03626344APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr S (through  his representative) complains about unsuitable advice from Quilter Financial  Services 
Ltd in connection with his pension. He says he was advised to make an unnecessary transfer to a 
new pension platform.
background
Mr S had a personal  pension  plan with Aegon. In 2014 Quilter advised  him to transfer the value of his 
plan to a fund operated through Skandia. Mr S says the new funds charges werent properly  
explained, and he considers  his pension  was churned by Quilter, to generate fees.
Our adjudicator didnt think Quilter had done anything wrong. He accepted that Mr S couldve 
transferred to the same fund through Aegon, and that fees wouldve been slightly lower than with 
Skandia. But the recommendation to invest through Skandia included a charge for ongoing advice 
from Quilter. The same  service through Aegon wouldve  meant a total annual charge of 3%, rather  
than 2.5%  through Skandia.
The adjudicator considered ongoing advice wouldve been important to Mr S, and he concluded  that 
the service he needed  was cheaper through Skandia than Aegon. He also noted that Mr S had the 
option to cancel Quilters  ongoing advice, which  wouldve further  reduced the charges.   
Mr S (through  his representative) didnt agree  with the adjudicators conclusions. It said 
Mr Ss pension had been transferred to three  different providers within  ten years,  and that the Aegon 
fund was originally identified as suitable because of its range of funds  and a 4% bonus payable after 
ten years.  Mr Ss representative also raised concerns about Quilters  assessment of Mr Ss attitude to 
risk.
Quilter maintained that it had assessed all of Mr Ss circumstances (including  the bonus from the 
Aegon fund) in making its recommendation to transfer to Skandia.  It still considered the advice was 
suitable for Mr S.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr S has mentioned that his pension was transferred to different funds  several times  by Quilter during  
a relatively short period  of time. For the purpose of this complaint, I am only considering the transfer 
that was made in 2014, from Aegon to Skandia.
Attitude to risk
Mr S was 56 at the time,  and planned to take his retirement benefits  at 65. He had £77,790 in his 
Aegon pension fund (which was his only pension fund), and owned two mortgaged properties  with his 
partner. Mr S also had annual earnings of around £17,000.
Mr Ss projected annual pension (based on the Aegon fund and state pension)  was £11,800. But Mr S 
wanted to achieve a pension  closer to £15,000 a year.
Ref: DRN03626345Given that he was within ten years of retirement, Mr S wouldve required  significant investment growth  
to achieve the additional  pension he wanted. So I can see why a fund that was heavily  weighted in 
equities was chosen,  as this would give Mr S the best chance  of achieving  the growth he needed.
But investments that carry the likelihood of higher growth, also carry  the risk of greater loss. Quilter 
had to assess whether Mr S properly understood that risk and was willing  and had the capacity to 
take it.
It seems two assessments  of his attitude  to risk were carried out in August 2014. Its not clear  which 
document was used  by Quilter, but both identified  Mr S as a Dynamic  investor. This was at the 
higher end of Quilters scale of risk. Dynamic investors were  described by Quilter as follows:
In general, Dynamic investors are happy to take investment risk and understand this
is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They  are willing  to take risk with
most of their available  assets. Dynamic investors  typically have  significant levels of
financial knowledge and they will usually be experienced investors, who have used
a range of investment products in the past that have contained high levels  of Equity.
Dynamic investors  will usually  be able to make up their minds on financial matters
quite quickly. While  they can suffer from regret when their decisions turn out
badly, they are able to accept that occasional poor returns are a necessary part of
long-term investment.
Ive looked at the answers recorded for Mr S on Quilters  risk assessments. They  both seem to 
include contradictory answers. For example, in response to the question I prefer  the safety of keeping  
my money on deposit, Mr S answered Agree.
In response to I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns he answered 
Disagree.
In response to Id rather take my chances with high risk/high return  investments than have to 
increase the amount I am saving he answered  Agree.
On the other assessment it says:
I am willing to take substantial financial  risk to earn substantial  returns  No Strong  Opinion
When it comes  to investing Id rather be safe than sorry  Agree
Id rather take my chances  with high risk/high return investments than have to increase the amount I 
am saving  No Strong  Opinion
When I take account of Mr Ss mixed responses to the risk assessment questions, Im not persuaded  
that it was reasonable for Quilter to assess him as a Dynamic  investor. 
Keeping in mind the relatively  short  period of time between the transfer and Mr Ss planned retirement  
date, I think  its unlikely he wouldve had the capacity to absorb any loss he might suffer in the new 
pension fund.  
Overall, I think  this means Quilters advice  was unsuitable. If Quilter had given suitable advice to Mr 
S, I think its likely  that he wouldve remained  in his existing fund which was a balanced fund.
Even though  I dont  consider Quilters advice was suitable for Mr S, I think  its unlikely hes suffered 
any loss. Thats because the fund he transferred to appears  to have performed  better  than the Aegon 
fund he was originally invested in. 
Ref: DRN03626346But Quilter  will need to measure the performance of both funds to make sure that this is the case. If 
Mr Ss pension fund wouldve been worth more  if hed remained invested in the Aegon  fund, Quilter 
will need  to compensate Mr S in line with the redress set out below.
Charges
Mr S also complained that charges in the Skandia fund werent properly explained when he 
transferred from Aegon.
Quilter accepts that the specific  fund Mr S transferred to was available through  Aegon. And from what 
Ive seen, it seems it may have been  cheaper through Aegon than Skandia.
Ive already concluded that Mr Ss attitude  to risk meant Quilters advice wasnt suitable for him. So I 
havent considered any further whether the difference in charges between the two funds meant  the 
advice was unsuitable.
But in any event, the redress set out below takes account of the charges for both funds. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should  be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would  probably now be in 
if he had been given suitable  advice.  
I think  Mr S would have invested differently.  As Ive already said,  if Quilter had given suitable  advice 
to Mr S, I think its unlikely he wouldve transferred his pension fund out of the fund he was invested  
in. Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ss circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
 
what should Quilter do?
 
To compensate Mr S fairly,  Quilter must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Ss investment  with that of the benchmark  shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
Quilter should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Quilter should pay into Mr Ss pension  plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ss actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter  deducts  income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate if 
Ref: DRN03626347he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Cirilium  
Dynamic 
Portfolio  R 
Acc GBPstill existsNewton Balanced 
Funddate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr S paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value  calculation at 
the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting  
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because I think that if Quilter had given suitable  advice to 
Mr S, its likely he wouldve remained invested in the Newton Balanced  Fund with Aegon.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Quilter  Financial Services Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated  as set out above. 
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0362634