K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws unhappy with the advice he received from David Craig  to transfer benefits from a 
final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). 
Mr W considers  that the advice was unsuitable.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 25 June 2020.  Ive recapped the background below:
David Craig was an independent financial adviser who traded as David Craig IFA. Although 
David Craig IFA is no longer in existence or authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), David  Craig nevertheless remains responsible for the advice he gave.  Throughout 
much of this decision Ill refer to David Craig  as DC. 
Mr Ws financial adviser, whom Ill refer to as Mr R, worked  for an advisory firm Ill call 
Business B. Mr Ws friend, who Ill refer to as Mr G, was one of Business Bs directors.
In 2012 Mr G told Mr W better returns could be achieved if he transferred out of the OPS  he 
held with his former employer and invested his funds in an offshore property development  
fractional ownerships  in Freedom Bay, Saint Lucia (Freedom Bay). Mr G referred  Mr W to 
DC for transfer advice.
Mr W and DC never  met. All correspondence  took place by post via Business B. At the time 
Mr Ws circumstances were as follows:
Mr W was 55 years old, married and his wife was retired,  receiving her own pension
Mr W owned a house with an outstanding mortgage of around £20,000
Mr W worked for a brewery and was earning  £24,000-£30,000 per annum.  He was a 
member of his employers final salary OPS  and by age 65 wouldve accrued 30 years  
pensionable service
Mr W had 17 years worth of preserved benefits in his OPS with his former employer
Financial Planning and Attitude to Risk (ATR) questionnaires were completed.  DC also 
made Case Notes. To summarise, the documents noted the following:
Mr W had been referred to DC for advice solely about his OPS with his former 
employer. DC wouldnt make an investment recommendation and was only 
facilitating a transfer  into a regulated SIPP drawdown product, with [the] residual fund 
net of TFC to be left on deposit.  [Mr W would] then discuss  how to invest  the pension  
fund with [Mr R]
The Cash Equivalent  Transfer Value  (CETV)  of Mr Ws OPS with his former 
employer was £95,444.08
Mr W wanted to retire  at age 65 and believed his state  pension  and OPS with his 
current employer would  cover all his retirement income needs
Mr W wanted the tax-free cash (TFC)  he could get by transferring out of his OPS with 
his former employer to pay off his mortgage  and free up extra disposable income
Mr W had an adventurous  ATR in relation to his pension planning 
A Pension  Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report was produced  on 11 September 2012. 
The report  compared  the benefits  Mr W held under his former employers OPS with the 
Ref: DRN08658552benefits that could be purchased by transferring the value of the OPS  to a SIPP. To 
summarise, the report noted the following:
As Mr Ws former  employers OPS was contracted out of the State  Earnings  Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS), it had to provide  a minimum level of pension which was 
broadly equivalent to the amount of State pension given  up. This pension was called 
the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)
At age 60 Mr Ws former employers OPS was estimated to provide an annual 
pension of £6,011 and a pension  commencement  lump  sum (tax free cash) of 
£15,333
The proposed  SIPP would need to obtain  an estimated annual investment  return  
(critical yield)  of 22.35% to provide benefits equal to the estimated benefits  provided 
by Mr Ws former employers OPS
A personal  illustration was also produced,  setting  out what  Mr W might get back if he 
transferred to a SIPP with Standard  Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life). The illustration 
was based on Mr W taking 25% TFC and investing the rest of his money in Standard Lifes 
Cash Fund. 
DC produced a Suitability letter for Mr W on 30 October 2012. As part of the advice provided 
DC said it had taken  into account Mr Ws overall circumstances, his ATR and the following 
factors:
Mr Ws overriding  priority was to release TFC from his former employers OPS and 
use the money to pay off his mortgage. Mr W preferred to do this immediately instead  
of waiting until he reached age 65. He didnt intend  to take an income from his 
pensions until age 65
Mr W didnt  want to invest in insured funds and instead wished to use a SIPP so he 
could investigate  potential alternative investments
Regarding the scope  of his advice, DC repeated that he was only advising Mr W on the 
transfer of his former employers OPS to the SIPP. He reiterated that Mr W wasnt seeking 
any advice from him regarding investments made  after the transfer. 
As to Mr Ws former employers OPS,  DCs Suitability letter said:
Mr W could  take benefits at age 60, but he didnt want to wait. He wanted to take the 
highest lump sum possible now which would equate to £23,861.02
DC had made Mr W aware that he was giving up valuable  fixed  pension  benefits by 
transferring, including  a guaranteed  index linked pension and spouses benefit.  
Despite this, Mr Ws objectives of paying  off his mortgage and investing  in funds in 
an adventurous fashion until retirement remained the same
As Mr W felt his OPS with his current employer  would  provide the bulk of his 
retirement provision,  he was happy  to take additional risks with [his former 
employers OPS]  in the hope  of achieving above  average growth
DCs letter  set out the options  available to Mr W. Purchasing a conventional  annuity, phased 
retirement and a phased retirement/unsecured pension combination plan were all mentioned 
but discounted as Mr W wanted to take TFC but didnt want to receive  a regular income  at 
the time.  DC outlined  the Capped Drawdown Pension option and said the following:
Ref: DRN08658553you can choose to immediately take 25% [TFC]  from your plan () Instead  of buying an 
annuity with the remainder  of the fund,  the money  remains invested and can continue to 
benefit from investment  performance () As the rest of your pension fund remains invested 
() your final pension () will be determined  by the continued investment management of 
your funds. Careful attention, therefore, needs to be given to investment management whilst 
in Drawdown to ensure  that, when you finally buy an annuity,  you would be in a similar 
situation to that if you had bought  an annuity at the start. We would always undertake  an 
annual review as this is a sophisticated product. This will be undertaken by your usual 
adviser.
Under the heading Recommendation and fund choice, DCs Suitability letter  said:
Mr W had been provided  with an illustration, Key Features Document and product 
literature for a SIPP with Standard  Life. All of which  had been  explained to Mr W and 
which Mr W confirmed  he understood
The value of the SIPP was dependent on the investment performance of () the 
particular funds  Mr W invested in
Mr W had indicated his ATR for his pension planning was Aggressive
Under the heading Critical Yield & Risk Warnings, DCs  letter Suitability letter said:
It was important to analyse the investment growth needed from an Unsecured 
Pension to match  the income that was available from a conventional  annuity in the 
open market upon retirement.  (I should  note this is a different measure which is also 
termed critical yield).  But as Mr W didnt require income at the time the analysis  of 
critical yield was not truly relevant
In Mr Ws case  the critical  yield to match the equivalent benefits [was] 3.02% at 65, 
3.09% at 70 and 3.22% at 75
Unlike an annuity Mr W wouldnt be locked in to his SIPP and could  transfer away  at 
any time
DC was confident  that, on balance, Unsecured  Income [was]  in [Mr Ws] best 
interests ()
Although a Stakeholder Pension was a cheaper alternative to a SIPP,  DC was 
recommending the SIPP because it was more suitable as Mr W wanted to make 
alternative investments
There could be a delay when encashing  units in a property fund
In conclusion, the Suitability letter confirmed DC would receive £1,500  for setting up the 
SIPP, with any ongoing fees being negotiated  between Mr W and Business B. DC said Mr 
Ws SIPP  would be reviewed by Mr R on an ongoing  basis,  who would contact him once it 
was set up. DC said Mr W would receive no further contact from him.
Mr W accepted DCs  recommendation. 
On 23 January 2013 DC sent Mr W a letter headed, Your intended investment choices once 
the transfer from [the OPS] to [Standard Lifes] SIPP has completed. The letter  said:
I have been informed  that you are considering investment in Alternative  Investments such  
as overseas property  once your transfer  to [Standard Lifes] SIPP  drawdown  plan has been 
completed. 
Ref: DRN08658554I () have not carried out any research or due diligence into any such investment for 
yourself () I have  no idea as to whether or not the investment may be a suitable one and 
how it may perform in the future () When making  personal recommendations () I would 
in most circumstances stick to conventional pension and investment plans from mainstream 
companies, and as such my clients will benefit  from higher  levels of diligence as well as 
possible access to redress from compensation schemes and professional indemnity 
insurance if things go wrong.
I am writing to remind  you that I have merely carried out a transfer of your pension so that 
you may access your [TFC] as per your immediate requirements. If you elect  to transfer out 
of the () SIPP and purchase alternative  investments with your pension  fund, then [DC] will 
be held in no way responsible for any unsatisfactory outcomes  that may occur  in the future.
On 23 January 2013 £95,345.62  from Mr Ws former employers OPS was transferred to a 
new SIPP  with Standard Life. Of the amount transferred, Mr W received £23,461.05 in TFC.  
DC was paid £1,500 and the remainder of Mr Ws funds were invested in Standard Lifes  
Cash Fund.
In March 2013, Mr W was contacted by Mr G of Business B.  As Standard Life wouldnt allow 
Mr W to invest in Freedom Bay via his SIPP, Mr G referred Mr W to Mr R. Mr R advised Mr 
W to transfer to a SIPP with The Lifetime  Sipp Company  Ltd (Lifetime ), which would permit 
the Freedom Bay investment. 
On 16 April 2013 the value of Mr Ws Standard Life SIPP was transferred to a new SIPP  with 
Lifetime. Here, Mr W invested in Freedom  Bay. 
Mr W enquired  about taking benefits  from his pension in May 2017. Lifetime explained  that 
although the value of his SIPP  was £54,146.28, taking benefits  wasnt  possible as his 
Freedom Bay investment  was illiquid  and couldnt  be sold.  
In 2018 Mr W appointed solicitors to act on his behalf and complain about the advice hed 
received from DC. Mr Ws solicitors  wrote to DC and in summary said:
DC didnt speak  to Mr W or carry out any form of fact-finding exercise  to identify his 
experience, means, needs or objectives. DC couldnt make  a suitable 
recommendation without this
The suitability of the SIPP couldnt  be properly assessed without analysing the 
investments which were to be held in the SIPP. DC was aware  Mr W was referred to 
him to facilitate the transfer of Mr Ws OPS to a SIPP for the purposes of investment 
in Freedom Bay. He shouldve tailored his advice accordingly
The recommended  transfer and investment had no realistic  prospect of meeting the 
benefits guaranteed by Mr Ws former  employers OPS. The level of growth required 
was unlikely to be achieved
DC responded to Mr Ws complaint and in summary said:
His understanding was that Mr W was keen to receive TFC and invest the remainder 
of his fund in line with advice provided by Business  B. DC had wanted to provide a 
quick and cost-efficient service for Mr W to do this
He believed Mr R of Business B was trustworthy and had no reason  to believe Mr W 
wouldnt be properly advised  
Ref: DRN08658555He understood  Mr W was interested in investing in commercial  property but offered 
no advice regarding  this. It was agreed with Mr R that Mr Ws Standard  Life SIPP  
wouldnt be used for these types of investments and that Mr R would arrange to 
transfer Mr Ws fund into a new product with a new provider once  theyd discussed  
the matter
Had Mr W remained in Standard  Lifes SIPP he would have had access to a wide 
range of investments that couldve  provided  him with the growth he was seeking,  as 
well as flexible access to withdraw funds as and when required
Mr W couldnt pursue him for failings by others  and he didnt accept any responsibility 
for the position  Mr W found  himself in
Unhappy with DCs response,  Mr W referred his complaint to our service.
Initially DC said Mr Ws complaint had been  made  too late. One of our investigators 
reviewed the matter and disagreed. She said she thought Mr W wouldve become aware he 
had cause for complaint in May 2017 when his SIPP provider confirmed  his Freedom Bay 
investment was illiquid and that he couldnt  take benefits from his SIPP.  She concluded that, 
as required under our rules, Mr W had complained within  three years of his awareness that 
he had cause for complaint. Based on this our investigator determined Mr Ws complaint had 
been made in time. DC accepted the investigators view.
Our investigator then considered the merits of Mr Ws complaint. In summary she said:  
She didnt think DC properly assessed  Mr Ws circumstances prior to the transfer  of 
his former employers OPS to the Standard Life SIPP. Although  DC assessed Mr Ws 
ATR as adventurous, she didnt think he was in a position to take this level of risk
DCs suitability letter said Mr W wanted  to release TFC to pay off his mortgage 
instead of waiting until he was age 60; however, Mr W had since  confirmed he used 
the TFC for home renovations. There was nothing to suggest  Mr Ws need for TFC 
had been discussed  in any detail  at the time
Based  on the level of investment growth required to match the OPS benefits Mr W 
was giving up, she didnt think there was any reasonable  prospect of him being better 
off by transferring  
DC was aware of how Mr Ws funds were intended to be invested. She didnt think it 
could provide suitable transfer advice without taking  this into account
She thought  Mr Ws complaint should be upheld
Mr W agreed with our investigator.  But DC disagreed. 
Because no agreement could  be reached,  the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain  why. But before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive taken 
note of the extensive arguments and points raised, I have limited my response to the issue I 
consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say, whether the advice  DC gave Mr W 
was suitable.
I note that Mr W was referred to DC by his friend who was a director at Business B and that 
Business B was the firm Mr Ws normal  adviser,  Mr R, worked for. But DC was engaged to 
Ref: DRN08658556act as Mr Ws adviser in relation to his former employers OPS, and specifically concerning 
the transfer of these  benefits to a SIPP for the purpose of investing in Freedom Bay. So DC 
was responsible for providing suitable  advice.
From what  Ive seen, DC knew that further  to transferring out of his OPS,  the intention was 
for Mr W to invest in alternative uninsured investments such  as overseas  property.  Indeed, 
some of the documents DC produced warned of some of the risks associated  with these 
investments. But DC said that, while his recommendation was that Mr W should transfer his 
OPS into a SIPP, he wasnt advising on how Mr Ws funds should be invested. This was 
because Mr R would be providing  Mr W with advice  regarding  this. I dont think  it was correct 
for DC to limit his advice  in this way. He had a duty to take into account how Mr Ws funds 
would be invested  when considering the overall  suitability  of the transfer.  
At the time of the advice, the regulator (then  called  the Financial Services Authority) set out 
the principles for assessing suitability in the FSA Handbook and Conduct of Business Rules  
(COBS). The relevant rule is COBS 9.2 and this confirms that a business is under an 
obligation to obtain the necessary  information  regarding a consumer's:
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice
financial situation
investment objectives
To do this, the business must obtain  information from the consumer in order  to understand 
essential facts  about  him; and the business must have a reasonable basis for believing  that:
the recommended transaction meets the consumer's investment objectives
the consumer  is able to financially withstand the related investment risks consistent 
with his investment  objectives
the consumer  has the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks 
involved
Im also mindful that the FCA has issued alerts  about advising  on transfers with a view to 
investing pension  monies in unregulated products through  a SIPP.  The alerts demonstrate 
the regulator took the same view that, in order to provide suitable advice, consideration had 
to be given to how a consumers funds would  be invested. An alert from 2013  specifically 
mentioned unregulated investments such as overseas property developments. The alert 
didnt make any changes  to the regulations.  It simply restated the principles  that already 
applied and were  in place in 2012  when the advice was given. 
The regulator made its position clear  in the 2013  alert, where it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated  elements
Ref: DRN08658557In my view all the factors in deciding suitability were not met in this case.
DC has said he wasnt involved in the purchase  of the Freedom  Bay property investment, 
and that this was a decision by Mr W and Business B. He says he and Mr R had agreed at 
the outset that Mr Ws Standard Life SIPP  wouldnt be used for any of Mr Ws intended 
property investments. And that Mr R would instead arrange to transfer Mr Ws fund into a 
new product with a new provider  once  Mr R and Mr W had consulted  on the matter. I dont 
agree with this approach.
Although the intention  was for another  regulated  firm (Business B) to advise on where  Mr 
Ws funds were  invested, I dont think this means  DCs  responsibilities  ended  once the SIPP 
had been set up, Mr Ws OPS funds  transferred,  and the money made available  for 
investment. DC still had a duty to ensure the overall transaction  was suitable, 
notwithstanding that another regulated firm, Business B, was going  to be involved.  Suitable 
advice couldnt  be given without thinking  about the intended  investment. Thats  the 
regulators position as Ive referred to above.
It seems  to me DC was aware of where Mr Ws funds were intended to be invested and that 
the SIPP he recommended  was to help facilitate this. Even if I were to believe, which  I dont, 
that DC wasnt completely  aware of where Mr Ws funds were  to be invested,  I dont think 
this absolves DC of his duty of care as Mr Ws adviser to ensure  the advice he was providing 
was suitable- this had to include an understanding of what Mr Ws funds were to be invested  
in.
From what  I understand, the Freedom  Bay investment  was an overseas off plan property  
development. It was unregulated, specialist and illiquid with no operating history.  Although 
not referring to it specifically by name,  DCs 23 January  2013  letter  alluded  to the fact that Mr 
Ws intended investment might not be covered  by compensation schemes and professional  
indemnity insurance  if anything went wrong, which could lead to the loss of some or all of his 
pension fund. The investment was clearly  high risk. 
I think it was clear and foreseeable to DC that the transaction he was recommending and 
facilitating could  put Mr Ws funds at serious risk. Unregulated investments of a similar  
nature to the Freedom Bay investment are only normally suitable for more  experienced or 
sophisticated investors. I dont think Mr W fell into either of these categories.  Theres  nothing 
to suggest he had any experience of investments like fractional ownerships abroad. And 
from what Ive seen  in this case, I dont think he wouldve understood or had the capacity for 
loss that such a high-risk investment presented. Based on this I think it shouldve been clear  
to DC the investment wasnt  suitable for Mr W.
Notwithstanding what Ive said the above,  I dont think the suitability of DCs advice turns  
solely on where Mr Ws funds were  ultimately invested. DCs recommendation that Mr W 
transfer his former employers OPS to a SIPP in the first place is also an important 
consideration.
OPS typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  rules at the time 
of the advice, stated:
Ref: DRN08658558When  advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
So, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually  be suitable. There  will need  to be good  
reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests.  Generally, a transfer  will only 
be in the consumers best interests if theres  a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of the advice Mr W had accrued  not insignificant amounts  of service in his OPS 
with his current employer  and his former employers OPS - around fifteen years and 
seventeen years respectively. DC said Mr W felt the OPS he had with his current  employer 
coupled with his state pension would  provide  him with a sufficient income at retirement and 
that he didnt view his former employers OPS  as a main part of his retirement plans. 
Because of this DC concluded that Mr W was happy  to take additional risk with [his former 
employers OPS] in the hope of achieving above  average growth.  I dont think this was a 
reasonable conclusion to reach.
Although Mr W may have believed the OPS he held with his employer  along  with the state 
pension would provide sufficient income at retirement, he was ultimately reliant  on DCs 
expertise as his financial  adviser. Mr W wasnt a pensions expert, so he wasnt  in a position 
to assess whether the pension provision hed have in place with his employer, coupled with 
the state pension would  be enough to meet his needs at retirement, such that he could 
afford to give up the benefits under his former employers  OPS. It was DCs responsibility  to 
evaluate this. I dont  think he did.
As part of determining whether Mr W was able or willing to take on the risks that would come 
with giving up the guaranteed benefits he held under his former employers OPS and 
investing in overseas property, DC needed  to understand what  exactly Mr Ws other pension 
provision was. DC also needed to establish what Mr Ws future liabilities  and income 
requirements were likely to be. Without  this DC couldnt assess whether Mr Ws view of what 
the state pension and one of his OPS could  provide at retirement was correct.  Nor could he 
draw any reasonable  conclusion  about  whether giving  up his benefits  under the OPS  held 
with his former employer  was suitable  advice and in Mr Ws best interests.  Theres  nothing to 
suggest DC gathered  any meaningful information  about  these  things. Had he done  so, I think  
it wouldve  been clear  that Mr W wasnt in a position to take such  significant risks with such a 
large proportion  of his pension  provision.
Mr W was a standard retail investor.  He was 55 years old with ten years to retirement. He 
had no assets  other  than his house  (with an outstanding mortgage) and two OPS pensions. 
There was no evidence  of Mr W having  any other  investments or savings. His pensions were  
two of his most valuable  assets. Irrespective of whether he recognised it at the time, Mr Ws 
OPS pensions formed a major part of his future  retirement  provision.  DC shouldve realised 
this and proceeded with caution. 
DC stated Mr Ws objectives at the time were to make alternative investments and pay off 
his mortgage to free up extra disposable  income in the shorter  term.  DC said Mr W didnt 
want to wait until age 65 and preferred to do this immediately. 
Ref: DRN08658559Although conscious  of DCs record  of Mr Ws objectives, Im also mindful that retirement 
planning while it may have regard for an individuals short-term goals and preferences,  its 
primary focus should be a consumers personal circumstances with a view to putting them in 
the best possible position at retirement, with the appropriate income  provision in place long-
term. So while I can accept that as DC says, Mr Ws preference  was to pay off his mortgage 
and have extra disposable income in the short term, I think  a greater level of concern 
needed to be given to Mr Ws future  long-term  position and actual requirements. I dont think 
DCs recommendation did this. 
I havent seen  anything to indicate there  was an immediate need or requirement for Mr W to 
settle his mortgage early  or that the position  with Mr Ws existing pension  provision  was such  
that investing differently, especially in high risk alternative investments,  was necessary or a 
gamble Mr W was in a position  to take. Theres nothing to suggest Mr W was unhappy with 
his former  employers OPS at the time. Theres also nothing  to demonstrate that DC 
established why Mr W didnt wish to invest in insured funds.  In the circumstances I 
wouldve expected  DC to explore what making  alternative investments really meant to Mr W 
and what accessing  TFC at age 55 meant  in terms of giving up guarantees under his former  
employers OPS.
No context, compelling reason or sound justification  was provided by DC for either of Mr Ws 
objectives. It seems to me investing  differently and paying off his mortgage  early so he could 
increase his disposable income were nice to haves for Mr W, whod  been  told positive 
things about the Freedom  Bay investment and may have been curious about the options 
available to him. 
However, I think it was DCs role to determine  whether Mr Ws identified objectives  were 
essential requirements at the time of the advice and if they made giving up the guaranteed  
benefits under his OPS worthwhile. Im not persuaded  they were.  So, Im not satisfied  it was 
appropriate for these  factors,  which in my view were weak justifications, to be the primary 
basis for DCs recommendation  that Mr W transfer  his former employers OPS to a SIPP  so 
he could ultimately  invest  in overseas property.
DC determined that Mr W had an aggressive  and adventurous attitude  to risk in relation to 
[his] pension planning. This was based on an ATR Questionnaire Mr W completed  as well 
as what Mr W had indicated to DC. DCs suitability report described an aggressive investor 
as someone who values high returns relatively more and can tolerate both large  and 
frequent fluctuations through time in portfolio value in exchange for a higher return over a 
long term. 
I can see from the questionnaire completed that Mr W indicated he was willing to take 
sizeable risks with his investments. But Mr Ws answers needed to be considered  in the 
context of his overall circumstances. A willingness to accept a degree of risk isnt the only 
factor to consider in providing suitable advice. The degree of risk Mr W was in a position to 
take was also material  his capacity to accept losses  in the context of his overall 
circumstances was a key consideration.
Based on what was known of Mr Ws circumstances and experience,  I dont think  it was 
reasonable to conclude  that adventurous or aggressive accurately reflected Mr Ws ATR. 
Other than an apparent interest in alternative investments, there was nothing to indicate Mr 
W held or had any experience with these types  of investments. And as there was no 
evidence of Mr W having any savings  or assets  other than his OPS plans and house, there 
was nothing to suggest he could tolerate the additional risks hed be taking by transferring 
Ref: DRN086585510his former  employers OPS to a SIPP to access Drawdown, which,  at the time,  DC said was 
a sophisticated product.  
Im not satisfied that DCs assessment of Mr Ws ATR was an accurate appraisal of the 
investment risk Mr W was prepared to take or that DC gave sufficient consideration to the 
level of risk Mr W was able to take with his OPS. Although I dont think  DCs rating of Mr Ws 
ATR as aggressive/adventurous was accurate, I do think Mr W was in a position  to take 
some risk in 2012. However, I do still think the overall transaction presented a higher degree  
of risk than he ought to have been  advised  to take with what I consider to be a very valuable  
asset- his guaranteed pension benefits in respect of around seventeen  years  membership of 
a final salary scheme. Mr W was reliant  on this fund for a significant proportion of his 
pension income.  Any significant loss of this would have a serious impact on his retirement 
provision. Im not satisfied Mr W had the experience, knowledge or appetite for risk to 
assess or fully appreciate  the transfer of his former employers OPS to a SIPP with a view to 
investing his funds in overseas property.  
In my opinion if DC had properly taken into account Mr Ws circumstances, he should have 
advised Mr W not to transfer  his former  employers OPS to a SIPP.  I believe it would have 
been in Mr Ws best interests  to leave his former employers OPS where it was, until he had 
an unavoidable  need for either income  or TFC. At this stage he could have reviewed his 
position without  losing  the chance to consider his options, especially the guarantees under 
his OPS. I note that at age 60 Mr W wouldve been  able to take benefits from his former 
employers OPS without  losing guarantees and that this wouldve included a pension 
commencement lump sum of £15,333. 
In terms of the investment risk Mr W was taking, a transfer value analysis (TVAS) was 
produced. The TVAS showed the critical yield (rate of growth) required (from the new 
arrangement) to match the income level provided  by Mr Ws former employers OPS  in the 
future. The report determined the growth rate required  was 22.35%. So Mr Ws OPS transfer 
value needed  to consistently  grow  at a rate of around 22.35%  each year for him not to be 
financially worse off by transferring. This was alarmingly high. But if the transfer  was only 
going to match the benefits given up thered be little point in transferring there needed to be 
a reasonable prospect Mr W would be better  off. So a return closer to 23% would have been 
required for Mr W to gain any advantage.  Im not satisfied that was a reasonable 
expectation.
At the time of the advice the regulator required illustrations of projected  benefits to use 
standard assumed growth rates.  In the illustrations  for Standard Lifes SIPP, the higher rate 
of projected returns used was 9%. So even at the time, Mr Ws investments would have 
needed to perform consistently  at two and a half times the highest rate for him to be better 
off. I think  it was clear there wasnt  sufficient  prospect of Mr Ws pension  fund beating the 
critical yield rate identified to make  the transfer  worthwhile. The critical yield required should 
have made  DC think very carefully about  whether the transfer was suitable for Mr W. As 
DCs suitability letter said, High levels of critical yield would not be recommended ().  With 
the marginal possibility of improving Mr Ws OPS pension benefits after a transfer, I dont 
think it was reasonable  to consider moving them. 
DCs advice was given  during the period when the Financial  Ombudsman Service was 
publishing discount rates  on its website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst  businesses werent required to refer 
to these rates when  giving  advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been  considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.  The investment return  (critical yield) required to match Mr 
Ref: DRN086585511Ws former  employers  OPS at age 60 was quoted  as 23.5% per year.  This compares with 
the significantly lower  discount rate of 4% a year for five years to retirement  at age 60 and 
4.7% for ten years to retirement at age 65. So that too suggests Mr Ws AFP OPS transfer 
value was highly unlikely to grow at the rate required.
Considering Mr Ws situation and the level of growth  required to ensure Mr W wasnt  
financially worse off when  he took his benefits,  I think it was clear  the transfer of Mr Ws 
former employers OPS to a SIPP with a view to invest  in overseas property, would 
represent an extremely high risk transaction only suitable for a very high risk or sophisticated 
investor with enough additional drivers  for the transfer to mitigate the risks involved. I dont 
think there were in Mr Ws case. The transfer clearly wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. It was a 
high-risk strategy and not one Mr W was in a position to take.
Im mindful that in DCs  suitability letter, no reference was made to the critical yield identified 
in the TVAS report. While  the critical yield in the TVAS report captured the level of growth  
required from the SIPP to match  the income  level that would be provided  by Mr Ws former 
employers OPS at retirement  (age 60); the critical yield DC set out in the Suitability letter 
was defined as:
() the level of growth needed from an Unsecured  Pension to match  the income that is 
available from a conventional annuity upon  retirement. 
Whilst critical yield is also a term used in evaluating  unsecured pensions, Im not satisfied 
that DC was making  the right comparison here. As DC was advising Mr W on whether he 
should transfer his former  employers OPS to a SIPP, I think  the starting point had to be 
identifying the level of growth required  for the new arrangement (the SIPP)  to match the level 
of benefits Mr W could  secure under his OPS. The starting point  shouldnt  have been an 
assumption Mr W transferred his OPS to a SIPP and then working out the level of growth 
required for taking the drawdown option  to match  the income available  by purchasing  a 
conventional annuity at retirement. So, I think it was misleading for DC to say, based on the 
critical yield hed identified  (around 3%), that he was confident,  on balance, that 
transferring to a SIPP and taking the drawdown option was in Mr Ws best interests. I dont 
think it was.
I can see from the available evidence that DC did set out the risks associated  with the 
recommended transfer (i.e. that pension income  wasnt guaranteed and depended on 
investment performance).  But Im not satisfied these  warnings went  far enough. In my view 
they were brief and general at best when they shouldve  been extensive and explicit  given 
the significance  of the transaction  DC was recommending.  I cant  see that DC adequately  
explained in any detail, in real terms, the potential implications of the benefits  Mr W would be 
giving up by transferring  his former  employers OPS .
DC advised Mr W to transfer  out of his former  employers OPS  to a SIPP where his funds 
would be placed  in Standard Lifes Cash fund. In doing so, DC made  Mr Ws funds  available  
to be switched by Mr R to a SIPP with another provider and invested in Freedom Bay. DC 
was aware at the outset that the SIPP he advised Mr W to transfer to was never going to be 
used for investment, and that it was merely  to hold Mr Ws funds before Mr R arranged  the 
investment in overseas property. In making  the recommendation he did, I think DC failed to 
act objectively and in Mr Ws best interests.  DC charged Mr W a £1,500 advice fee to 
transfer out of his former employers OPS  to a SIPP he knew  Mr W would never use. I dont  
think this can be considered suitable advice.  And as Ive already said, I dont find that a 
suitable recommendation could be given without consideration  of where Mr Ws funds were 
Ref: DRN086585512going to be invested. Arranging  for Mr Ws money to be placed in a Cash Fund showed a 
complete disregard  for the suitability of the intended (and known)  investment or whether  the 
transaction as a whole  was in Mr Ws best interests.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think the advice for Mr W to transfer out of his former 
employers OPS was suitable here. Overall, Mr Ws circumstances dont suggest he was in a 
position to be able to take the risk of transferring his OPS benefits to a SIPP.  As Ive 
explained, the perceived benefits of doing  so did not justify  the transfer at this time. I do 
accept that DCs  recommendation did generally  cover some of the transfer risks but in my 
view, he shouldnt have  gone on to recommend the transfer to Mr W. Even though DC says 
he didnt advise on Mr Ws investment in overseas property, the regulators guidance is clear 
that he shouldve.  Had he done so it shouldve  been clear the investment wasnt  suitable. I 
consider it reasonable to assume that if Mr W had been advised  not to go ahead  with the 
transfer of his former employers OPS to Standard Lifes SIPP and later switch  to Lifetimes 
SIPP to invest in overseas property, he would  have heeded this advice and not gone ahead 
with the transfer  or investment. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive taken  into account  the fact that Mr Ws friend as Business B 
might have been persuasive  in suggesting that Freedom Bay would be an attractive  
investment. But it demonstrated  by referring  Mr W to DC that it either  wasnt permitted or 
was unwilling to make  a recommendation that he transferred his final salary pension to 
achieve this. In the circumstances  I think it most  likely  that Mr W would have followed the 
recommendation I think DC should have  made,  which was not to transfer.
what David Craig should  do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr W as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. David Craig must therefore undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.  The calculation should assume  that Mr W drew  benefits 
from his OPS at its normal retirement  age of 60.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
David Craig may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP) to obtain  Mr 
Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
Ref: DRN086585513taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date David  
Craig receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes David  
Craig to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
treatment of the illiquid  assets held within the Lifetime SIPP
My aim is to return Mr W to the position  he would have been in but for the actions of David 
Craig. This is complicated where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold 
on the open market),  as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, David Craig should  agree  an amount with the SIPP provider 
as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed  plus costs to the SIPP provider and take 
ownership of the investment. If David Craig is unable  to buy the investment, it should  give it 
a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation.  The value of the SIPP  used in the 
calculations should  include anything Mr W has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, David Craig may ask Mr W to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. David  Craig will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking. If David  Craig  asks Mr W to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of 
that undertaking.
SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP.  
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by David Craig taking over the investment, or 
this is something that Mr W can discuss with Lifetime directly. But I dont  know  how long that 
will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that David Craig pays  Mr W an upfront  lump sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide  a reasonable  period  for the parties  to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
I invited Mr W and David Craig to respond  to my provisional decision. Mr W responded to 
confirm that he accepted  the provisional decision.  David Craig responded and confirmed it 
had nothing further to add.
Ref: DRN086585514my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
I remain of the view that Mr Ws complaint  should be upheld on the basis  I outlined in my 
provisional decision.
what David Craig should  do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr W as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. David Craig must therefore undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.  The calculation should assume  that Mr W drew  benefits 
from his OPS at its normal retirement  age of 60.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
David Craig may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP) to obtain  Mr 
Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension  plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date David  
Craig receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes David  
Craig to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
Ref: DRN086585515period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
treatment of the illiquid  assets held within the Lifetime SIPP
My aim is to return Mr W to the position  he would have been in but for the actions of David 
Craig. This is complicated where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold 
on the open market),  as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, David Craig should  agree  an amount with the SIPP provider 
as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed  plus costs to the SIPP provider and take 
ownership of the investment. If David Craig is unable  to buy the investment, it should  give it 
a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation.  The value of the SIPP  used in the 
calculations should  include anything Mr W has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, David Craig may ask Mr W to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. David  Craig will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking. If David  Craig  asks Mr W to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of 
that undertaking.
SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP.  
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by David Craig taking over the investment, or 
this is something that Mr W can discuss with Lifetime directly. But I dont  know  how long that 
will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that David Craig pays  Mr W an upfront  lump sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide  a reasonable  period  for the parties  to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct David Craig to calculate and pay compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0865855