K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  Uncle  Buck  provided  to Mr B between 9 June and 
28 August 2014.  Mr Bs borrowing  history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 09/06/2014 27/06/2014 1 £250.00 £337.00
2 28/07/2014 28/08/2014 1 £500.00 £675.00
3 28/08/2014Debt  was 
sold on1 £500.00 £675.00 2
4 28/08/2014 26/09/2014 1 £500.00 £675.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didn't think  loans 1 and 2 should  be 
upheld but did uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 3 and 4 because he said they shouldnt 
have been given. 
Uncle Buck  had already offered to repay the interest  and costs for loan 3 - including one 
deferral charge - but not the charge for the second  deferral as it had sold the debt on. Mr Bs 
representative said he hasnt so far accepted  the offer but I havent been given anything  
further to consider. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed that loan 4 should be upheld. So the complaint was passed to me for 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN01717512the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. I wont  be looking at loans 1 and 2. 
Mr B didn't  provide anything further to the adjudicators opinion that these two loans 
shouldnt be upheld.
For loans 3 and 4 I think that by looking at Mr Bs borrowing  behaviour, which Uncle  Buck 
should reasonably have  been aware of, as well as proportionate checks, it would most likely 
have shown that Mr B was starting  to struggle  with managing his money. 
I say this because  Mr B took loans 3 and 4 out on the same  day  28 August 2014  which  
was the same day that he had repaid the previous loan  loan 2. This would suggest that 
Mr B was taking further borrowings to repay  borrowings already taken, which  would mean 
the borrowing  wasnt sustainable. 
And by taking two loans  for £500  he doubled the amount he had previously borrowed and 
the £1,000 to be repaid   plus interest of £350   was more  than half of his declared monthly 
income. So it was a significant  sum and for Mr B it was a payment he would be unlikely to be 
able to make  without undue difficultly. 
I appreciate Uncle  Buck  has said its not sure how Mr B was able to take out two loans  at the 
same time as this wasnt its policy, but by Mr B taking the two loans on the same  day it 
should have put Uncle Buck on notice that Mr B may have been struggling. And if it had 
carried out further financial checks which I think would have been  proportionate, it would 
have seen Mr B had loans  with other  short term lenders, which should have caused it to 
reconsider whether  Mr B should take any further loans. 
So, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans  3 and 4. 
Ref: DRN01717513putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
Uncle Buck  says it has sold loan 3 to a debt purchaser. It should buy this back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back  then it should  
liaise with the debt purchaser to achieve  the same results as outlined  below - 
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Bs credit  file. If any 
loan was sold  in this case loan 3, Uncle Buck  should ask the debt purchaser to do 
the same. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. 
Uncle Buck  must give Mr B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0171751