K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  Hippo Vehicle  Solutions Limited (Hippo) misrepresented  a fixed term 
loan agreement. They ask to be put back in the position they would have  been  in had they 
never entered into the agreement.
background
On 13 September 2014, Mr F entered into a fixed sum loan agreement  to purchase  
a vehicle for Mrs F. This consisted  of 47 monthly repayments of £251.20, followed 
by a final payment  of £4,874.00. Mr F says  he agreed to be a guarantor for Mrs F, 
but was unaware that the agreement was set up in his sole name.
Mr F says they were advised  that at the end of the agreement they had three options;  
to pay the final lump  sum and keep the vehicle, return the vehicle, or trade.  Mr F 
says Mrs F was advised  that the vehicle had an annual  mileage cap of 10,000 and 
any additional miles would be charged . 
Mr F says a warranty  policy was also taken out alongside the agreement for 24 months 
commencing on13 September 2014. A claim was made in 2017, which  was declined 
and Mr F says he realised the warranty  had never  been set up correctly  in the first place.
In October  2018,  Mrs F contacted  the dealership  to discuss  her options  at the end of the 
term.  She was advised  they couldnt  speak  with her about  the account  as she wasnt  he 
account  holder  and it was at this point  they realised  the loan had been  set up in Mr Fs 
name  and it wasnt  a PCP  agreement.
Mrs F explored the options of trading in the vehicle for another  one but was declined  
finance under her name. Hippo offered to buy the vehicle back to settle the outstanding  
finance but this offer was declined.
Mr and Mrs F asked  Hippo  to send  all the documentation  and correspondence  as an 
official  subject  access  request  (SARS)  but feel they didnt  receive  all the information  nor in 
a timely  manner.
Hippo  says the term so of the agreement  were  very clear  and it was Mr Fs responsibility  
to ensure  he was happy  with the agreement  before  signing.  Since  making  the complaint,  
Hippo  says it has looked  at Mrs Fs preferred  option  to acquire  a new vehicle,  trading  this 
one as a part exchange  but unfortunately,  Mrs Fs credit  application  was declined.  It then 
agreed  to buy back  the vehicle  and pay off the finance  in full but this option  was also 
declined.
It says the warranty  had expired  at the point  Mrs F tried to make  a claim  and this was the 
reason  the claim  was declined.  With regard  to the SARS,  Hippo  says it received  the 
request  but it was put on hold whilst  the complaint  was investigated.  It provided  a 
response  on 21 November  2018.  A second  SARS  was submitted  for everything  that had 
been  discussed  since  October  2018  and this was sent to Mr and Mrs F on 27 November  
2018.
Ref: DRN03206272An investigator  looked  into things  for Mr and Mrs F. She didnt  agree  there  was any 
evidence  the loan agreement  had been  misrepresented  and she thought  Hippo  had acted  
fairly  and reasonably  in trying  to resolve  matters  for Mr and Mrs F and so she didnt  
uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed.  The still feel the loan was misrepresented  and so they asked  for 
an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Because I wasnt present when the discussions took place between  Mr and Mrs F and the 
dealership, I cant be certain  of what was said. Theres  no contemporaneous evidence of 
what was discussed.  In the circumstances, I need  to look at the available  documentary 
evidence in order to determine whats more likely to have happened  at the time when the 
agreement was entered into.
Ive looked carefully  at the fixed sum loan agreement. It clearly states it is a fixed sum loan 
agreement in large type at the top of the agreement and is in the name  of, and signed by, 
Mr F. There  is clear  detail  about the monthly payments, the term, the interest rate and the 
final repayment of £4874.00.
I have also reviewed the documents presented and signed by Mr F at the point of 
sale.  Under the 'Motor loan Balloon Accommodation Order  Form' it states;
'This agreement is referred to as an motor loan accommodation  deal. as the accommodator 
you are liable  for this finance agreement and as such  if the accommodates  (the person 
who the car is for) fails to maintain payments this will have an adverse effect on your credit 
rating. You can arrange to have  the payments coming  out of the accommodates  bank 
account but the agreement will be in your name ...
This was signed by Mr F as the accommodator, and by Mrs F as the accommodatee  
on 13 September 2014,  in which it states 'we have read this order and agree  to the 
terms and conditions  contained'.
Ive also looked  closely  at the Statement  of Needs  and Demands.  This document  
shows  a number  of flowcharts,  detailing  different  finance  options  and a number  of 
statements  regarding  those  options  confirming  Mrs Fs understanding  of the finance  
and the conditions  that applied.
I appreciate  Mr F says  he thought  he was a guarantor  and didnt  realise  the loan was 
in his name  but Im afraid  this doesnt  negate  his responsibility  to read the terms  and 
Ref: DRN03206273conditions  of the agreement.  It also indicates  Mr F was willing  to enter  into an 
agreement  for finance  to acquire  a vehicle  for Mrs F.
In order for me to be satisfied theres  been a misrepresentation  I would need to be 
persuaded that the dealership made  an untrue statement  of fact and that this was the 
main reason  that induced Mr and Mrs F entered into the agreement.
After  considering  all the information  in detail,  Im not persuaded  a misrepresentation  
has occurred  here.  The finance  agreement  is very clear,  as is the information  
concerning  the final payment  of £4,874.  Theres  no mention  of this being  an optional  
payment.  But, in any event  Hippo  have  offered  to but the vehicle  back  and repay  the 
finance  in full even  though  it seems  it has been  valued  at a lower  amount.
Im persuaded  Hippo  have  acted  fairly  and reasonably  in their response  to Mr and Mrs 
F and even  though  there  is no evidence  of misrepresentation  it has offered  to take the 
vehicle  back  and clear  the finance  and so Im not going  to ask it do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0320627