K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  about the service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited when she 
lost her mobile phone. 
My references to Aviva include its agents. 
background
Miss O lost her phone  an Apple iPhone X. Through a retail store she made a claim to 
Aviva under her mobile phone insurance. She explained that she was flying abroad for two 
months in two days time - 16 September - and she needed her phone  urgently for work. 
Aviva logged the claim on Friday 14 September and said it would need to arrange  for its 
specialist team to call her back on Monday 17 September.  It couldnt  accept  her claim until 
the call had been made. Miss O asked whether she could speak to someone sooner and she 
was told to check back on the Friday for a cancellation appointment. She did that repeatedly 
but no appointments were available. 
Miss O asked  whether  she could  have a replacement iPhone because the android loan 
phone offered by the store wouldnt work  with the iCloud. There  was some  confusion about 
whether an iPhone  would be available, but ultimately the store  couldnt  give her an iPhone 
loan. She bought an older model iPhone  but that wouldnt work with the iCloud. Miss O 
decided to rearrange her flight until Tuesday 18 September.
On Monday 17 September Aviva  spoke with Miss O about her claim and made some checks  
during the call. It then accepted the claim. As Miss O was due to fly on 18 September  it 
arranged for her to have  a new iPhone  X from the stores  stock. 
Miss O complained to Aviva about  the stressful experience and its unacceptable service.  
Aviva agreed it could have handled the claim better but said it couldnt have arranged for 
Miss O to have a replacement phone  earlier  because there werent any appointments 
available to speak  with her on the Friday. It refunded the £60 excess as a goodwill  gesture. 
Miss O didnt  think this was enough  and came to us.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and recommended that Aviva pay Miss O a further 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Aviva agreed  to this but Miss O didnt 
think this was fair compensation. So the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. 
I think £100 compensation  in addition to the £60 already refunded  by Aviva is fair and 
reasonable compensation. Ill explain why.
Under the policy Aviva was entitled to assess the claim. Aviva was first notified  of the loss of 
the phone  on Friday 14 September. I appreciate Miss O thinks it was the day before  but it 
wasnt until 14 September that Aviva logged the claim. Unfortunately it was always  going to 
be a very tight timescale for Miss Os trip on Sunday 16 September. 
Ref: DRN06990952Miss O had had a damage claim for her phone recently. So when she made  a claim for the 
phones loss I think it was reasonable  for Aviva  to want to make  some further enquiries. It 
told her about this promptly and also that the first available appointment was Monday  
17 September. I appreciate that Miss O very much wanted an earlier appointment but Aviva 
didnt have anyone  available  to speak with her that day, as its staff were already booked  for 
appointments with other customers.
Having discussed  the claim with her Aviva accepted the claim on Monday 17 September and 
it authorised the store  to give her a new phone that day. This is because shed rearranged 
her flight  for Tuesday 18 September. Aviva would usually send a replacement  phone by 
courier and its policy allows for a refurbished phone to be provided the following working  day 
(with a working day being Monday to Friday).  So I think Aviva did take into account her 
circumstances and it did deal with the claim quickly  if not as quickly  as Miss O needed 
given her trip. She says it was just a short call with the investigation team but the information 
gathered during this call did form part of Avivas assessment of the claim. And Aviva then 
approved the claim without delay. 
As Aviva has acknowledged  there were shortcomings in its service. Its possible that its staff 
meant to help Miss O when they suggested she call back  at regular intervals  to see whether 
she could speak with someone in the claims investigation team  on Friday. But this wasnt  
possible and it caused Miss O frustration, upset and inconvenience when no-one was 
available. Aviva has said sorry to her for raising  her expectations in this way.
Aviva has also said sorry that one staff member  didnt show empathy when she was clearly  
very upset.  That staff member also led her to believe it might be possible for the store  to lend 
her an iPhone,  when  this wasnt possible.  Again Aviva said sorry and refunded the £60 
excess by way of compensation. 
I think Miss O would always  have been very upset because Aviva  couldnt get a new phone 
to her on the day of her claim. She explains that she missed  both her flight  and freelance 
work shed  arranged abroad  as a result. I dont think this loss is Avivas responsibility  
because it dealt reasonably with her claim.  But Aviva added to Miss Os distress  by raising 
her expectations about a replacement phone and about the possibility of an earlier 
appointment to speak  to its claims investigation  team. I think  Aviva  should pay compensation 
for this additional distress  and inconvenience but I think that £160 in total is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint in part. Within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss O accepts my final decision I require Aviva  Insurance Limited to pay her 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. This amount is in addition to the £60 
that it has already  refunded to her. 
Ref: DRN06990953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss O how much  its taken  off. It should also give Miss O a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0699095