K820x#14complaint
Mr A said that he wanted HSBC Bank  Plc to compensate him for problems he had with a 
payment he tried to make to a different bank. 
background
Mr A said that hed tried to make a payment from his HSBC account to his credit card 
account, which is held with a different bank. He said that this money didnt get where  it was 
supposed to, because HSBC had changed  the payment  details that it was using to send 
money to his card. The money  eventually came back  to his HSBC  current  account. 
Mr A said that the other bank had waived  any interest payment that he would have  to pay 
because his credit card payment was late. He said the other bank had told him that the 
changed information was HSBCs fault.  And the other bank had said that a large number  of 
customers of HSBC  had found their payments  didnt  reach  their credit card accounts.  
Mr A told us that the other  bank  said that although HSBC had caused the problem, it thought 
it couldve reacted more quickly to help Mr A, and its other customers.  So it offered Mr A £75 
in compensation,  and it waived interest on his account for a short  period. 
But Mr A said that this wasnt the other  banks fault.  It was HSBCs fault. And he said that 
HSBC hadnt accepted  any responsibility for this at all. He said that he wanted  HSBC to 
actually investigate what had gone wrong,  to apologise, and to pay him some compensation 
for its mistakes.
HSBC said that it wouldnt  pay Mr A any compensation. It said that this payment had only 
gone wrong because the other  bank  had told HSBC to update  the database that HSBC uses  
to make payments.  The other bank had given  HSBC incorrect  information on where 
payments should  go. It had now amended that. 
HSBC said that as none of this was its fault, it didnt think  it had to do anything  to put it right.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that HSBC hadnt  made  a mistake.  
And the other  bank had put Mr A back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistake  
hadnt been made. So she thought that this was a fair outcome. 
Mr A didnt agree with that. He said he didnt  believe that this was the other banks fault. 
He thought that it was just HSBCs fault.  So he wanted HSBC to pay him some compensation. 
Our investigator didnt  change her mind. She passed this case to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator. 
Before I reached a conclusion on this complaint, I asked both HSBC and the other  bank for 
some more information about what  went  wrong. HSBC said that it had changed the payment 
details that its customers  used to send money to the other bank. But it only did that because 
the other bank asked  it to. Sometimes  it has to make updates to the payment details it holds, 
when other  banks make changes to where  payments  for things  like credit cards need  to go. 
Ref: DRN07558132But HSBC  said that in this case,  the other bank had made a mistake in the payment details 
when it passed  them on to HSBC. Thats why the mistake only affected  HSBC customers. It 
wasnt because this was HSBCs fault.  It was because HSBC  was the only bank which was 
given the wrong  information by the bank that manages Mr As credit  card.  
The other bank  didnt quite say the same. It just said that the problem happened after some 
changes HSBC made. But I think its important to note that Id asked it to confirm that this 
was all HSBCs  fault, and it didnt  do that. 
I know that Mr A thinks this was HSBCs fault. But I dont  think  that I can decide,  on the basis  
of what Ive seen  from both HSBC and the bank that manages Mr As credit card, that its 
more likely that it was HSBCs fault.  
I also note that Mr A has received some compensation from the other  bank. 
So I dont  think its unfair or unreasonable for HSBC to say in this case that it doesnt think it 
is responsible for what went wrong,  and that it doesnt have to pay Mr A any compensation. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think  that his complaint against HSBC  
should be upheld.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0755813