K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Santander in 1995 and bought  a PPI policy at the 
same time.
It seems  the policy covered them both. Santander has assumed it gave them an equal  joint 
benefit.
Mr and Mrs M say they were led to believe they had to have the PPI. And they say they 
didnt need it because they both had significant  sick pay.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  didnt uphold  it. They  disagree and 
so their complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M they had a choice about PPI and get 
their agreement to it. Ive seen the mortgage  application Mr and Mrs M signed at the time.  It 
has been ticked to say yes to PPI. And there is a clear option to tick to say no. Ive also 
seen Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer. Theres nothing  in it to suggest  PPI is a condition  of 
the mortgage. So I think that, at the time, Mr and Mrs M agreed to the PPI knowing they had 
a choice about it  even  if, understandably after so many years, thats not how they 
remember it now.
Santander says it wouldve  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. So it needed to make 
sure it was right for them in their circumstances. From what  theyve told us of these, and 
from the policy details  Ive seen, I think it was. I say this because it looks as if both             
Mr and Mrs M were  eligible for the PPI and there was nothing to stop them claiming  the full 
policy benefit if theyd  needed to. They say they got good sick pay. But the PPI wouldve 
paid a monthly benefit on top of their sick pay  and the benefit couldve lasted for three 
years. It would also have  paid a benefit  for up to a year if either of them lost their job. A 
mortgage is a significant and long-term  financial commitment, secured on your home  
which is at risk if you fall behind on your repayments. So I think  the PPI gave Mr and Mrs M 
a useful benefit. It also doesnt  look as if it was unaffordable  and they couldve cancelled it 
at any time for no cost if they no longer wanted  it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  Santander also had to give them enough 
clear information about it for them to be able to make an informed  decision  about  whether 
they wanted it. Its possible Santander didnt  make everything as clear as it shouldve  done. 
But, as Ive said, I think Mr and Mrs M agreed  to the cover and it was right for them.  So I 
Ref: DRN00999532dont think clearer information, if it had been  needed, wouldve stopped them  going  ahead 
with it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0099953