K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that a used car he acquired  via a hire purchase  agreement with Go Car 
Credit Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
Ref: DRN09248092background
In September  2018 Mr R acquired a used  car via a four year hire purchase  agreement with 
Go Car Credit. The car was around seven years old and had a mileage of 64,000.
Mr R says that about four days after taking the car the oil light illuminated together with the 
engine management  light. Mr R added oil to the car but then experienced the car losing 
power and smoking.  He took it back to the dealership. 
The dealership said that Mr R had put too much  oil in the engine causing  it to be over 
pressurised. It drained 15 litres of oil from the engine and said the maximum amount of oil in 
the engine shouldve been 4.3 litres.  The dealership told Mr R that the overfilling  of oil could 
lead to further problems with the engine in the future. Mr R collected the car.
Mr R complained to Go Car Credit and said that the oil level sensor may have been faulty 
and that he had added oil due to the oil light illuminating. 
Go Car Credit didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said the faults experienced by Mr R with the 
car were due to excessive  oil being added to the engine. Go Car Credit said that if Mr R 
provided further evidence that a fault had been  present  or developing at the point of sale 
then it would look again at his complaint. 
In December 2018 the car developed a clicking noise coming from the engine. The car was 
inspected by the dealership who said that the piston bearings needed replacing. The 
dealership said this fault was caused by the overfilling of the engine oil in September.
Mr R complained to Go Car Credit and it asked Mr R for evidence of the fault.  Mr R sent it 
diagnostic reports showing fault codes that had been recorded  after the car had been 
inspected by a garage.  Go Car Credit said that it forwarded these reports  to its technician 
who said that one of the codes was for low oil pressure (not a low oil level) and that the other 
codes were for using  a car with excessive oil. Go Car Credit didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint 
as it said there wasnt enough evidence to say the car had been faulty at the point of sale.
Mr R complained to this service and Go Car Credit agreed to have the car independently 
inspected. This inspection  was undertaken in April 2019 and it was noted that the car had 
been driven for a further 2,300 miles. The engineer found that there was a fault with the car 
which was a broken  timing chain guide. He advised  the car shouldnt  be driven. The 
engineer concluded that due to the time that had elapsed from the point of the sale,  and the 
number of additional miles driven  in the car, that this fault wouldnt have been developing or 
present at the point of sale.
In light of the contents of the independent report our adjudicator  didnt recommend that      
Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He said that he appreciated warning lights had 
illuminated on the dashboard within the first few days  of Mr R acquiring  the car. And that this 
had resulted in Mr R putting in excess oil which then had to be drained.  But he didnt think 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to say what  had been the cause of the current fault.
Our adjudicator said that in accordance with the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the onus rested  
on Go Car Credit to show that the faults  hadnt been present at the point of sale as the 
issues with the car had arisen within the first six months. Our adjudicator said he thought Go 
Car Credit had done this as it had requested an independent inspection  and report on the 
car. Looking  at this report our adjudicator  said he couldnt say the car had an inherent fault.
Ref: DRN09248093Mr R disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said there was an error  with the independent  
report as it set out hed driven the car 2,300 miles  in 15 days and not the actual 91 days that 
hed used the car for. He said the car hadnt been driven since  December 2018  and that the 
independent engineer had been  given the wrong information.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  car must  be of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then the retailer would have an 
opportunity to repair. If that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to reject  the 
car. And where a car is supplied under a finance agreement then its the finance company, 
in this case Go Car Credit, who is responsible  for dealing with the fault.
So the issue  for me to decide is whether or not the fault with the cars  engine had been 
present or developing at the time Mr R acquired it. Go Car Credit says that Mr R may have 
overfilled the car with oil as he mistook the oil pressure sensor for the oil level light and that this 
has resulted in the engine becoming damaged. It says that the fault codes that were provided 
show that the car was driven when the oil pressure light had illuminated.
The independent engineer says that the car was found to have a defect with the timing chain 
when it was inspected. The engineer says that due to the mileage and the time elapsed since 
the point of sale this couldnt have been developing at the point of sale. Mr R says he disagrees 
with the report because it has inaccurate information about the length of time he actually used 
the car for.
Mr R isnt disputing he put too much oil in the car a short time after he acquired it. He says he 
replaced the oil because the oil light illuminated in the dashboard. However, Go Car Credit 
says its likely Mr R made a mistake about which oil sensor light had illuminated. 
I dont have any evidence as to which oil sensor light illuminated in October 2018 but I do note 
that subsequently there arent any reports of a fault with the oil level sensor. Ive also seen that 
the dealership advised Mr R that putting in the extra oil could lead to future problems 
developing with the engine.
The independent engineer hasnt provided an opinion as to what may have caused the defect 
with the timing chain. However, what they do say is that its unlikely this defect wouldve been 
present at the point of sale. The engineer cites the number of miles the car has driven and the 
time elapsed since the point of sale as reasons fro the opinion.
I appreciate that the report sets out that Mr R drove 2.300 miles in 15 days and not the actual 
91 days he was able to use the car. Mr R has queried whether this error means the 
Ref: DRN09248094independent engineers opinion would be different if the correct facts had been known. Ive 
asked the independent engineer this question and theyve said that this wouldnt alter the 
conclusion they reached. So I dont have any evidence that the fault with the timing chain was 
either present or developing at the point of sale.
I accept that an oil warning light illuminated a short time after Mr R acquired the car. The 
dealership drained  and refilled the cars  oil to the proper  level.  Looking at the evidence I 
dont think I have enough to say that the fault that caused the oil light to illuminate is related 
to the timing chain issue. I also cant say that the problems  with the car arent linked to Mr R 
overfilling the oil. And although Mr R says that wasnt his fault I think its more  likely than not 
that he misinterpreted the warning light.  
So I cant say that Go Car Credit has acted unfairly and Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0924809