K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) his home insurance  policy  and refused to pay his water  damage claim as a 
result of this. 
background
Mr T took out his policy with RSA in February  2018, shortly after purchasing  his house. 
Around three weeks later a burst pipe caused water  damage to it, so Mr T claimed  on his 
policy. 
After a loss adjustors visit, RSA told Mr T it had decided to avoid his policy. Its done this 
because it thinks when  Mr T applied for the policy he incorrectly answered the questions  
about the number of bedrooms his house. And it thinks  this was what is termed a qualifying  
misrepresentation. It says in doing so he failed to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation and it would  never have covered him if itd known the true number of 
bedrooms. So RSA refunded Mr Ts premiums and refused to deal with his claim.  
Mr T started  his application  for the policy through an insurance comparison website. And, 
after answering some questions,  he was taken to the brokers website to answer more. 
Mr T complained to RSA about its decision to avoid his policy  and decline his claim. And in 
response it said the sales brochure  reflects his house has nine bedrooms. It said Mr T was 
aware of this when  buying the house  and his answers were incorrect.  RSA said it doesnt  
offer insurance where the number of bedrooms exceeds six. And this includes rooms  
originally designed  as bedrooms  that now have another use. 
Mr T says he answered RSAs questions correctly  in good faith and didnt include the extra  
rooms, as the house was built in the 1890s and he cant know  what all the rooms were  
originally designed  for. He says the rooms  arent  habitable; havent been  used for years and 
were last used as studios.  Mr T told us he doesnt consider these as bedrooms  and only 
intends to have one bedroom  on this floor of the house. 
Mr T feels the sales brochure isnt definitive. Mr T says its used to make a house seem 
appealing rather than for insurance purposes. And that the surveyors report says nine 
bedrooms, as its based on the sales brochure. He says the estate agent  told him based  on 
the brochure details what could be used  as bedrooms, rather  than what these have been 
used as in the past. And he thinks its unfair for RSA to rely solely  on it. 
Mr T also says the intended use of a room is subjective, but the rebuild cost isnt and the 
size of the property  is clear from this. He says he knows the number  of bedrooms might 
increase the risk and reinstatement cost, but as they couldnt  be used as bedrooms,  there  
wasnt an increased risk. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint. She said a customer  is responsible  for 
answering an insurers question correctly, and it relies on this to weigh  the risk. She thought  
Mr T incorrectly disclosed the number of bedrooms.  And RSA has evidenced it wouldnt 
have covered him if it had known the correct number. So she thought it had acted fairly.  
Mr T doesnt agree. So the complaints been passed  to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN07297852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This gives RSA certain remedies if, when  Mr T applied for his policy, he 
made what the Act describes as a Qualifying Misrepresentation. The Act requires Mr T to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And to be entitled  to avoid Mr Ts 
policy RSA needs  to show he didnt do this and that it wouldnt have offered Mr T cover, or it 
would have offered  it on different terms, if he hadnt made the misrepresentation. The 
standard used  to decide whether Mr T failed to take reasonable  care is the standard of a 
reasonable consumer. 
Mr T has made  a number of points  in support of his complaint  and while Ive thought about 
them all, I wont address each individually. Instead, Ive focused  on the issues I think  are 
material in reaching  a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint  that is whether Mr Ts 
made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
While Mr T answered  a number of questions, Ive only set out below the ones RSA says hes 
answered incorrectly.
The price  comparison website application  asked:
How many bedrooms does the property have? 
Next to this theres  a question mark icon that when  clicked on brings  up a text box, which 
says:
 Please  include rooms  that were originally designed as bedrooms,  even if theyre  now used 
for a different  purpose (e.g. converted to a study).
Mr T had the option to choose up to 10 bedrooms  here, and he chose 6. He was then taken  
to the brokers  website, and he was asked:  
How many bedrooms does your home have?
Mr T could  only choose up to 6 bedrooms  in answer  to this question. And next to it theres a 
question mark icon - when clicked brings up the following text directly below:
Include  all rooms designed  as bedrooms but which now have another  use such as a study, 
or rooms  that have  been converted to bedrooms.  If your home as more than 6 bedrooms we 
will not be able to offer you a quote 
Mr T again answered 6. 
And his statement of fact reflects  he answered 6 to the following question: 
Number  of bedrooms in the home  (A bedroom means a room  used  as or originally built to 
be a bedroom,  even if it is now used as something else)
Ref: DRN07297853Ive thought carefully about the questions posed  during  Mr Ts application and Im satisfied 
they were clear and specific, including  the additional information provided in the icon boxes 
detailing whats considered as a bedroom.  Mr T hasnt suggested he didnt see this 
information, and I think its likely  he did, given  the fact hes argued  he gave some thought to 
what he should declare as the number of bedrooms.   
I appreciate anyone buying  a house thats  not brand new may not know what  the rooms 
were designed  as, originally or otherwise. But the questions asked how many bedrooms 
Mr Ts house  has. Mr T only bought his house  around three weeks before making his claim. 
It was treated by the estate agent  marketing it, and his surveyor valuing it for mortgage 
purposes, as currently having nine bedrooms. And they arent being used by Mr T for any 
other purpose. This would have been  fresh in his mind when taking the policy  out. And for 
these reasons I think as a reasonable consumer he should have declared originally on the 
comparison site his house had nine bedrooms instead of six. And he should not have said it 
had six bedrooms  in response to the question on the brokers site. So I think  by answering 
these questions to way he did Mr T did fail to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. This is regardless of whether he knew  or could have been expected to 
know what the rooms  were originally designed as. For me it was clear that for the purposes 
of the application the rooms on the top floor of the house would be counted as bedrooms.
Id also have expected Mr T to know why RSA was interested in the number of bedrooms, 
given the warning when he went through to the brokers application process clearly says it 
cant provide a quote for houses  with more than six bedrooms. And if Mr T wasnt  sure how 
to answer he should have  contacted  the broker for clarification. 
I agree  with RSA in that I think Mr Ts failure  to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation was careless as opposed to reckless or deliberate. I dont think he 
specifically set out to mislead RSA knowing that the number of bedrooms  was definitely 
nine. However, I also think he should  have realised  he needed  to declare nine, but didnt  
because he didnt take reasonable care. I now need to consider whether RSA would have 
done anything  differently  if Mr T hadnt  failed to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
RSA determines  which risks its willing to accept based on strict  underwriting criteria and it 
isnt unusual for a home insurer to ask the number of bedrooms.  A lot of insurers  only cover 
houses with under a certain number.  And, in these circumstances, RSAs provided 
underwriting evidence showing it wouldnt have offered Mr T any cover at all if hed taken  
reasonable care and originally said his house had nine bedrooms and he hadnt said it had 
six when he went through to the brokers site. This is supported  by the application warning 
Ive referenced above, which says the broker cant provide a quote for houses with more  
than six bedrooms.  
This means  Im satisfied Mr T made a qualifying misrepresentation.  And, in the 
circumstances RSA was entitled to avoid  Mr Ts policy and refuse all claims under it. As 
Mr Ts misrepresentation wasnt deliberate or reckless, RSA is obliged  to refund his 
premium, which  its done  
Ref: DRN07297854I appreciate Mr T feels the number  of bedrooms has no link with the nature of his escape of 
water claim or the risk his home presented to RSA. And I understand Mr T hasnt been  able 
to put right the damage caused  by this yet and he has a young family. But, despite my 
natural sympathy  for Mr Ts position,  I think allowing RSAs  avoidance  and refusal of his 
claim to stand is the fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0729785