K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC increased  the minimum payment on her credit card.
background 
Mrs C says she received a letter in September 2018  from Lloyds  telling her that it would 
monitor her account for 18 months  and increase her credit card minimum payment  if her 
position hadnt changed. She says in March  2019  Lloyds told her it was making that increase 
but she had made regular  monthly  repayments.  Mrs C says she had planed  on repaying her 
debt on retirement and Lloyds actions made her feel that she couldnt manage her finances.  
She would like her account  reinstated and the interest rate reduced.
Lloyds says its paid £100 compensation for not closing the account when it said it would but 
says its acted in line with the new rules  on persistent debt. It says its given Mrs C details of 
its specialist debt department.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought  
Lloyds had acted  correctly by telling Mrs C that it would  monitor  her account  for 18 months 
but had brought in changes too soon. The investigator thought in those circumstances Mrs C 
had no choice but to accept them and so recommended Lloyds pay a further £200 
compensation.
Lloyds says Mrs C chose  to stop using the account.
The complaint was referred  to me and I asked both sides for further  information.  In summary 
I asked Lloyds to comment  on the fact that it appeared to have made changes to Mrs Cs 
account before it said it would and to explain why it had done  so. I also asked Mrs C to let 
me know what she wanted to happen with the account  as it appeared her repayments were  
only covering interest.
Mrs C replied and says she would  like her account reinstated and her repayment amount 
reduced.
Lloyds says its legal department is considering the persistent debt rules about  the timing  of 
its actions and says it could agree a no offer concession which  would mean Mrs C would 
no longer be charged interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall  view  as the investigator.
I have looked  at Mrs Cs account and can see that the repayment she was making was 
covering interest  and a very small amount  of capital. So I dont think  Lloyds made a mistake  
by writing to Mrs C and explaining that and by telling her that it would monitor her account for 
the next 18 months. I think such actions are in line with the new rules  on persistent debt and 
it would  have been in Mrs Cs best interests  to be made aware of that.
There is no dispute here that some five months or so later Lloyds changed Mrs Cs minimum 
repayment which meant that Mrs C could  no longer  use the credit facility. Whilst I accept 
Ref: DRN06345172Lloyds may have been trying to help Mrs C its not explained why it took that action some 
time before it said it would. I appreciate that Lloyds says its waiting for advice from its legal 
department but I think its had long enough  to explain why it took that action. As I dont think  
its explained why it took that action then I agree with the investigator that on the face of it 
Lloyds actions were  unfair and not in line with the guidance on persistent debt and caused 
Mrs C inconvenience.
So I agree with the investigator that Lloyds should pay Mrs C a further £200 compensation 
for whats taken place. I think such an award  fairly  reflects whats happened and is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mrs C would like to be able to use her account as before but with a lower 
interest rate. But that is not something  I can fairly interfere in as I think  such matters are for 
Lloyds to decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement.  I can see that Lloyds has 
offered to remove interest from Mrs Cs account  but such action would affect  Mrs Cs credit 
file. I hope in the circumstances  Mrs C will consider speaking  to Lloyds about her position  as 
it appears that by making minimum repayments  at the previous rate then Mrs Cs overall  
debt was not reducing by much.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
Mrs C £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0634517