K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint concerns a whole of life policy he took out with a predecessor  of Sun Life 
Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited.  Hes unhappy with the way the policy  and its 
investment element has been administered and feels this has led to a reduction in the 
policys value.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ps complaint in which I explained why I didnt think it 
should be upheld.  A copy  is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In brief,  I was of the view that the policy appeared to have been suitable for Mr Ps needs  
and circumstances  when  it was sold in 1991 and that Sun Life had managed the 
administration of the policy and its investment element correctly since then. 
Sun Life didnt provide  any further  comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr P 
indicated that he disagreed with it but, although prompted, he also didnt provide any further 
comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given that no further evidence or comments have been provided, I remain of the view that 
the complaint  should not be upheld.
my final decision
For the reason  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that dont  uphold  the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05534852COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr Ps complaint concerns  a whole  of life policy  he took out with a predecessor of Sun Life Assurance  
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited.  Hes unhappy with the way the policy and its investment element 
has been administered  and feels this has led to a reduction in the policys  value. 
background
Mr P took the policy out in 1991. It initially  provided £20,000 of life cover for a premium of £30 a 
month. In 1993 the cover was increased  to £100,000 and then Mrs P wife was also added as a 
second life assured,  all resulting in a new monthly premium of £42. 
The policy was reviewed  a number  of times over the following years and to begin  with no changes 
were needed  the premium continued to support the sum assured. But in 2011 the policy failed a 
review and Mr P was offered  a choice  between increasing the premiums to around £50 to maintain 
the sum assured, or carry on paying the same  premium  for a reduced sum assured of £90,000, which  
is what he did. 
A little after this review, in 2013, Mr P called  Sun Life to complain, seeking information about how the 
policy worked and clarification as to why its value had fallen.  He was provided  with a copy of the 2011 
review letter and also given  a comprehensive explanation of how the plan worked  and the reasons for 
the changes in value.  
In 2016 the next policy review resulted  in the need for a much  more significant increase in premium  
to around £141  to maintain  the £90,000 sum assured. The alternative was to accept an equally  
significant reduction in the sum assured,  to around £30,000.  
Mr P complained again in May 2018. Sun Life offered a further explanation of how the costs of the 
policy and of providing life cover had impacting on the policys performance. But it added that it felt 
the policy  had generally been a suitable means by which  to provide cover. 
Mr P remained unhappy and referred the complaint to this service, where our investigator reached 
broadly the same conclusion as Sun Life in respect of how it had administered  the policy. 
Mr P nevertheless still felt Sun Life had acted  incorrectly, so the matters been referred to me to 
review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
For clarity, although the sale of the policy took place many years ago and Mr P has also complained 
about it previously,  Sun Life has consented  to us looking at the merits of the complaint (bar some 
service issues  that were dealt with in 2013).  I should also highlight that Sun Life has responsibility  for 
the sale and suitability of the policy, in addition to responsibility for its ongoing administration.  
 
In respect of the suitability issue, while I recognise  its not the crux of Mr Ps complaint, I think its 
worth me first confirming  that I see no reason why the policy wasnt suitable for his needs and 
circumstances at the time of the sale. He was married, with dependent  children and clearly seeking  
some form of general family protection. A whole of life policy, with flexibility over term and the level of 
cover, seems  to be a reasonable way in which to meet this need.    
Ref: DRN05534853Mr Ps primary concern is with the way Sun Life has administered the policy since it took over the 
business that original sold the policy. But Ive seen nothing that persuades me that it has done 
anything wrong in this respect.  
The policy has been reviewed regularly,  in line with the terms and conditions,  and this was something 
that the documentation shows was discussed with Mr P in 1993 when he made changes to the policy. 
And it was in the context  of the potential need to increase the premiums in future to main the level of 
protection, which was noted as being the policys primary purpose  as opposed  to investment.
I appreciate it will have  been  disappointing to have seen the level of life cover and any value 
associated with the policy fall over the years.  But this is not unusual with a whole of life policy, even  
where the underlying investment fund may be performing positively. The costs of providing  life cover 
get progressively more expensive  as the years  pass, effectively balancing  out increases in investment  
returns. Thats  why there may be a need to increase the amount paid in premiums  to support the 
investment element. 
And its also important to note that significant changes were made to Mr Ps policy  soon after it was 
set up  adding a further life assured and greatly increasing the level of cover.  Making  these changes  
will, as Sun Life explained,  have impacted  upon the sustainability of the policy. 
I dont think it can be fairly said that Mr Ps not been kept informed of how the policy  has been 
operating. Its my understanding that he received annual  statements  and the negative review letters 
since 2011 have been correctly addressed. He also, as noted, received  a full explanation of the 
policys workings in 2013, shortly after the first negative  review.     
So, in summary, Ive seen nothing that gives me reason to conclude that Sun Life has acted  
incorrectly or unfairly in respect  of Mr Ps policy. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded not 
to uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN0553485