K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that National Savings and Investments wont  pay prize awards for his 
premium bonds directly into his bank  account unless he registers  with their on-line  or 
telephone service.
background
Mr M has premium  bonds with National Savings and Investments (NS&I). Mr M wrote to 
NS&I in April 2019 asking for future  winnings on his bond to be paid directly into his bank 
account. He mentioned in his letter that he didnt  wish to use NS&Is telephone or on-line 
services to do this and that they should treat his letter as a complaint  if they were  unable to 
agree. 
NS&I wrote back to Mr M saying that they could only pay prizes  directly to their customers  
bank accounts  if they register  for their online service. NS&I  also said that they wouldnt 
reduce their operating costs if they allowed customers  to have payments paid directly into 
their accounts and for notification of this to be sent by post.  They mentioned that customers 
were given the option of having prizes  paid by crossed warrant which  would apply to Mr M if 
he didnt want to use their telephone  or on-line service. So NS&I  didnt  uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Mr M followed this up with a letter to NS&I in June  2019 where he asked for a recent  win 
from his bonds  to be paid directly  to his account,  as well as all future  winnings.  NS&I wrote 
back to Mr M saying  that he would need  to use their on-line or telephone service and to 
select that particular  option when prompted.  
Mr M remained unhappy with NS&I so he asked us to take a look at what had happened. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt  uphold  it. She said, in 
summary, that NS&I  hadnt acted unfairly as they had given Mr M a number of viable options 
to have prizes paid to his account, which Mr M was able to utilise if he wanted although she 
acknowledged that Mr M didnt feel comfortable doing this. 
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigator. He said that NS&Is  processes for paying prizes 
were complex compared with other  processes they had in place. Mr M also said that not 
everyone had access  to on-line and telephone  facilities and that there was the potential for 
personal data to be compromised if NS&Is  on-line facilities  were used. Mr M also mentioned  
that hed recently  had difficulty  using the on-line  facility.
As our investigator wasnt able to resolve Mr Ms complaint to his satisfaction,  he asked for 
his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So Mr Ms complaint has been  passed to me 
to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN06822842I note that Mr M feels that NS&Is processes for crediting premium bond  winnings are overly 
complex. However, NS&I  are entitled  to put in place  the processes  they wish for this as long 
as that means  that Mr M isnt being  treated unfairly,  and as long as this doesnt  contravene  
any terms and conditions  that Mr M agreed to when he took out the premium  bonds with 
NS&I.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that apply  to NS&I premium  bonds. Section 64 of this 
states under  the heading Payment of prizes
Apart from Bonds held on behalf  of a childprizes:
a)..will normally be paid by crossed warrantfor Bond holders who are not registered  to 
use the Service for their bonds;
b).may be paid by electronic  transfer to the nominated bank account for Bond holders 
operating their holding  by means of the Service. Where payment is made by electronic 
transfer Bond holders will receive notification of any prizes by email.
The definition of Service according to the terms and conditions is the telephone and 
internet services provided by NS&I...
Im satisfied taking the above into account  that NS&I have acted within their terms and 
conditions by asking  Mr M to register for telephone  and on-line services if he wants  prizes  to 
be paid directly to his bank account.  I realise  Mr M doesnt wish to do this and he is of 
course entitled not to do so. But that doesnt  mean that NS&I should  change these terms 
and conditions for Mr M or their customers. That is a decision for NS&I  and not something  
we would ordinarily ask them to consider  changing. 
I do still though  need to consider whether NS&I treated  Mr M fairly, even if they complied  
with the terms and conditions. I think NS&I have  treated Mr M fairly though.  I am aware  that 
Mr M doesnt want to use the telephone because of a particular condition he has. However,  
Mr M isnt obliged  to register with NS&Is telephone service and can do so on-line. I know  
Mr M doesnt wish to do this as he feels it isnt a particularly secure method of protecting  
data. I dont though agree that Mr Ms personal data will be compromised purely by 
registering on-line with NS&I. If, of course,  an actual breach of data occurs  then Mr M will be 
entitled to complain about this.
I accept Mr M may feel otherwise but I dont  think him choosing  not to register on-line means 
that he is being treated unfairly  by NS&I. He will still be able to receive crossed  warrants  
from NS&I if he doesnt  register. And, while Mr M has concerns about the costs of this, Im 
not persuaded this is an unreasonable or unfair alternative to having the money  paid directly  
to his account. 
I note Mr M has commented that not everyone has access to telephone or on-line services.  I 
am only considering  how NS&I have treated Mr M though, not how NS&I  treat their 
customers generally. 
Ref: DRN06822843For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. I am aware that Mr M has 
recently had problems in using  NS&Is  on-line service. However, our investigator  has 
explained to Mr M what he needs to do in future  for this so I dont propose to investigate  this 
particular point any further. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0682284