K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him and his late wife, Mrs C, a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage and PPI through Lloyds in 1995. Mr C says they took it 
out at a meeting  with the bank. He may be right about this. But, Lloyds no longer has 
copies of Mr and Mrs Cs paperwork,  so it cant say how the policy was sold to them. The 
policy wouldve covered  their mortgage  repayments  for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident,  sickness  and unemployment  claim. Lloyds  also cant  say whether 
only one of them was covered, or if the benefit was split between them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt agree. He said he couldnt see 
why wed reached  a different decision on this case to their other  PPI claims. He also said 
they didnt need or want PPI and wouldnt have agreed to take it out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when the insurance was added. Lloyds no longer 
has a copy of the paperwork from the time of sale. Thats not surprising as banks often 
only keep records for six years and this sale took place over 20 year ago. Ive listened  to 
what Mr C has had to say, but given that this all happened such  a long time ago, 
memories can fade over time. So, as well as taking into account what Mr C remembers  
from the time of sale, Ive also taken into account  what weve  learnt from dealing with other 
cases.
Based on the very limited  information I have seen and heard, I dont have enough  to fairly 
conclude that Mr and Mrs C werent given a fair choice about  purchasing  PPI at the time of 
sale and werent  clearly told the policy was optional. So, I cant  fairly uphold  their complaint 
on this ground.  
Ive worked on the basis that Lloyds recommended Mr and Mrs C take PPI. That means it 
had to consider  whether  it was suitable for them.  In addition,  it had to give them information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading about  the PPI so that they could make an informed 
choice about whether  it was right for them and they wanted to buy it. If there  was a problem 
with the sale,  then I need to consider whether I think they lost out because  of that.
As Ive said,  I dont know whether one or both of them  were  covered under the policy.  So, I 
have looked at both of their circumstances separately and together  when  considering this 
complaint. I cant see that this policy was unsuitable either way at the time of sale.  Ill explain 
why. 
It seems  they both wouldve been eligible  to take out PPI given their circumstances.
Ref: DRN07461372Mr C said they both wouldve been both eligible to get sick pay through their work (six 
months worth at full pay and six months worth  at half) along with redundancy pay and death 
in service cover. He said they also had a modest  amount  of savings and Mrs C had some life 
insurance cover. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim on 
top of any work benefits. So, I think this couldve provided Mr and Mrs C with a valuable  
benefit to protect their home. It wouldve allowed them use their work benefits and to keep  
hold of their savings to meet their other household expenses. The policy wouldve also 
provided cover if they lost their job unexpectedly.
I cant see that either of them wouldve been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover. So, I dont  think having better information about these things wouldve made 
any difference to their decision to take out PPI. I think  they likely couldve  benefitted  from 
everything the policy offered.
The premium was paid monthly so they couldve cancelled PPI at any time without losing 
out financially. They didnt  have to pay interest  on the premiums. I cant  see that the policy  
was unaffordable.
Its possible Lloyds  couldve given Mr and Mrs C clearer information, particularly about 
the costs and benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think they wouldve likely still 
taken out the policy  because of the protection it afforded them and it appeared suitable  
for their needs and affordable.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr C has said,  but this hasnt changed  my view.  
Each case is considered  on its own facts  and merits. So, there  may be subtle differences as 
between this case and Mr Cs other cases that have led to a different outcome.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2019 on his own behalf and on behalf of the late Mrs Cs estate.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0746137