K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs N says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs N aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Mrs N applied for her 
card and theres limited  paperwork  available from the time.  This isnt surprising considering 
how long ago the sale took place  and that businesses arent required to keep this type of 
information indefinitely.  From the information  that is available  I cant  say FICL didnt make 
Mrs N aware that the policy was optional, or that she didnt  choose  to have it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs N so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs N got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments, which included sick pay, savings and help from family. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Mrs Ns sick pay. The PPI would also have allowed Mrs N to keep any 
savings she had in place to be used towards any other essential  expenses she may have 
had. While Mrs Ns family  would  have  wanted to help, their ability to do so would have been 
dependent on their circumstances  at the time which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ns circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. I also havent  seen evidence to show  the PPI wasnt 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
my final decision
Ref: DRN00924972I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0092497