K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint is that Forex Capital Markets Limited (FCML) had a system failure which  
resulted in closing  positions in his margin trading account, on 24 August 2015,  erroneously. 
He seeks compensation  for the loss he says he incurred from this. 
background
Mr S complaint referred  to two transactions closed  at 16:02:42 and 16:02:43  (GMT +3) at 
losses and despite  having sufficient account balance  to meet  the margin requirement. One 
of our investigators looked into the complaint. He noted that Mr S subsequently referred to 
other positions which he said had also been mishandled by FCMLs system. However, the 
investigator considered  that the two transactions were sufficient to address the crux of his 
complaint  the alleged system  failure.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. He referred to evidence  
in Mr S trading statements and said the first closed  position happened  because of a margin  
breach and that the second  closed position happened because  the first closure was 
insufficient to correct the margin  breach, so the second closure  was needed. He said the 
closures happened as they were supposed to  based on the margin requirement rules  for 
the account  and that there was no evidence of a system failure. He also noted  that it was 
Mr S continuing obligation  to maintain sufficient  margin in his account.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome,  which  led to further correspondence  with the investigator. 
He raised the following main  points:
There is a conflict between the investigators views that both positions were closed 
due to a single margin breach and that the second position was closed because  of 
insufficient margin after the first closure.
The manner in which the positions  were  closed has not been properly treated. There 
is an issue about slippage  applied to the closing price which has not been  explained.  
There was a delay  of nine seconds   which is significant in trading terms  between 
the margin breach  (the time at which the price triggered the breach) and closure of 
the first position. This too has not been explained and is unfair. 10 other examples of 
this, which all caused losses, followed within the same hour and there was no margin  
breach when they happened.
In addition, there are examples of no close-outs being applied  to positions despite 
negative margin in the account  later in the hour.
FCML changed the margin requirement  without  notifying him.
The investigator did not consider that the explanation about the closure  of the two positions 
was conflicting  and he repeated a summary of his finding in this respect. He considered that 
the slippage Mr S refers  to was positive, so it does  not add merit to the complaint, and that 
the delay he mentioned appears to have  also had a positive price effect and does not dilute 
the fact that a margin breach legitimately  led to the closures. The investigator also affirmed 
that his assessment of the two positions was enough to address  the allegation about an 
alleged system failure and he noted that the margin requirement adjustment Mr S mentioned 
did not affect the product  traded in his positions.
Mr S disagreed with the suggestion  that the slippage  and time delay had a positive effect, 
and he maintained that the margin requirement adjustment  was relevant to his positions (and 
Ref: DRN03847942was applied without  notice to him). The investigator  was not persuaded to alter his 
conclusion and the matter was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share  the investigators  view that the two main positions presented in the complaint are the 
most relevant. It appears that towards the end of the hour (roughly) that followed closure of 
the first position the margin status of Mr S account was negative.  He says no position  
closures took place  at the time despite the negative account margin.  I also note his 
argument that, prior to that, other  closures  took place shortly  after the two main  closures  
despite having positive margin at the time. 
This suggests that the core complaint  remains one about an alleged system failure  during 
the relevant time period. I consider that addressing the two main positions is important in this 
respect and  without  going into the details of each of the other  disputed  closures  but without 
ignoring them  I have also taken an overall  view on what  happened during the relevant 
period.
We have been  provided with a copy of the terms and conditions for the margin  trading  
account dated July 2015. This captures the events that happened in August 2015  and 
provides meaningful context for the issues within the complaint. Section 20 of the terms 
makes margin  related provisions, and I note the following:
Section 20.2 contains the ongoing margin  obligation upon Mr S that the investigator 
referred to. In this respect, he was essentially obliged to ensure that his account  had 
and maintained a positive  margin status, by either closing positions or adding  funds 
to avoid a negative margin.
In the event of a margin breach  (negative  margin) section 20.3 entitled FCML to 
complete discretion  in closing  one, several or all  open margined positions  
immediately, with or without notice  to the Client.  In the event of closures due to a 
negative margin status, this section also warns that   the Client should expect 
that the Company will close all of the Clients Margined  Transactions.
Section 20.4 says FCML  was not obliged to give any margin  call warnings.
Section 20.10  says  The Client is specifically made aware  that the Margin 
Requirements are subject  to change without notice including  without limitation  the 
Margin rates governing  the Clients open Margined  positions .
I address the complaint issues as follows:
I do not consider  that there  is a conflict in the explanation of what  happened to the 
two main positions that were  closed. 
There is evidence of the margin breach that prompted the first closure. As stated 
above, FCML had discretion  to apply the closure(s).  I appreciate  Mr S point about a 
delay of nine seconds between the margin breach and execution of the first closure, 
but I am not persuaded that this is particularly extraordinary and I have not seen 
Ref: DRN03847943evidence that the delay  was intended by FCML or that it resulted from its negligence. 
I understand why Mr S says nine seconds  is significant in trading terms, this could be 
so. I also understand  his pursuit for an explanation.  However,  the balance  of 
available evidence appears to answer both points on the basis  that it took nine 
seconds to complete execution of the closure and, as I have said,  I do not consider 
that extraordinary. I draw  a similar conclusion with regards to the slippage  issue,  
which appears to have occurred in the ordinary course of the closure  execution.
The first closure did not correct  the margin breach. FCMLs discretion to close  
positions continued and it exercised that by closing the second position.
I have seen correspondence between the parties in which FCML suggested a 
method by which it applied forced closures. In the same correspondence  FCML 
replied to Mr S query about opening new positions in positive and negative margin 
circumstances. In this respect,  it said this depends on the traded product and the 
traded lots. I have  considered this correspondence for any conflict  between it and the 
terms that I have referred to and no such conflict appears to exist. FCMLs discretion 
appears to have covered any method it applied and whether (or not) it applied a 
method. Mr  S query about opening  new positions relates  to his argument about no 
forced closures happening  when the account  was in a negative margin  status   
within that argument he also referred  to being able to open new positions despite 
such status. I consider  that FCMLs response  to this query also illustrates elements 
of its discretion. That discretion meant  it could  either  close  or not close positions  
when an account  was in negative margin and I am persuaded  that this sufficiently 
answers Mr S point about positions not being closed (and new positions being  
opened) despite  a negative margin status.
With regards to the other disputed closures, Mr S refers to 10 positions timed 
between 16:13:27  and 16:15:24. He says the relevant margin  breach threshold did 
not exist in the price range 30 seconds  before and 30 seconds after the forced 
closures. The breaches that took place triggered FCMLs closure discretion. Its 
discretion extended to closing one, several  or all of Mr S positions  due to negative 
margin status. Mr S accepts that by 16:49  and, or to, 17:03 the account remained in 
negative margin status. It appears the account was going  in and out of negative 
margin status during  the relevant hour  after the two main positions were  closed. In 
such circumstances, and despite  Mr S highlighting short periods in which he says 
positive margin existed,  it would appear  that FCMLs closure discretion remained a 
live matter during the hour. I understand Mr S objection to it applying the closures  
when he considers it ought not to have  done so and his query  about  it not applying  
the closures when  it could have done  so. However, in the context  of an account  that 
began in negative  margin and was going  in and out of that status for the following 
hour, this was arguably the inherent  effect  of FCMLs discretion. It was contractually 
entitled to or not to apply closures  in those circumstances and under that discretion.
I do not consider  that the issue about  a change in margin  requirements needs  to be 
drawn out any further than the debate prior to this decision. As stated above, FCML 
was contractually entitled to change margin requirements  including  those related to 
open positions  without notice  to Mr S. The correspondence I mentioned  above  also 
includes queries  about this issue and I accept that FCML described a method in 
which it gave such notice to clients dependent on account net value. Nevertheless, 
the terms say it was not obliged to, so this too appears to be a matter in which  FCML 
had discretion and used  it in specified  circumstances. Even if Mr S contends  that he 
Ref: DRN03847944should have received notice under those circumstances, the terms confirm that he 
was not contractually  entitled to such notice and I do not consider  that the method 
applied by FCML was sufficient to alter or nullify the effect of section 20.10.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 5 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0384794