K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy on a hire purchase agreement.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
Mrs C took out a hire purchase agreement (account ending 7382) in store in 1999.  At the 
same time she applied for PPI. The lifetime premiums charged on the card were £28.88.
The PPI would have  paid her monthly  repayment if Mrs C couldnt work because  she had an 
accident, was unwell  or lost her job for at least 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed and through 
her representative told us about  the amount of savings she had at the time of the sale - so 
she says she didnt  need the policy. So the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
and Ill explain my reasons why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  was whether Mrs C was given a fair choice about  taking  out 
the PPI. 
FICL has been able to provide a copy of the credit  agreement Mrs C signed when she 
applied for her credit and her PPI. Theres a section on the form headed payment protection  
insurance application and Mrs C has signed  this section  above the words in block  capitals 
(only sign if you want  cover) as well as signing the form separately for the credit.  Overall,  I 
think she was most  likely given an option  to accept  the PPI and she chose to take it out 
knowing she could decline it if she didnt want it.
I dont think its likely  FICL advised Mrs C to buy the PPI. That meant it didnt have to make 
sure it was suitable for her. But it still had to give her enough clear information  so she could 
decide for herself whether  or not she wanted the policy.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even  if FICL  had given her better or clearer  information,  I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have taken  out the policy.  I say this because she 
was eligible for the cover  and doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, such as unusual employment  circumstances or a pre-existing medical 
condition.
Ref: DRN03832142Mrs C has told us she would have received six months full sick pay followed by six months 
half sick pay from her employer  if she couldnt work through  accident or illness. But the PPI 
policy could have paid out the monthly  repayments  for at least  12 months. This would be 
paid in addition  to, and would have  lasted potentially for longer than the full sick pay she may 
have received. And it would have provided  cover if she lost her job. Mrs C has also 
confirmed she had savings of about £2500. But she didnt want  to use the savings  for her 
purchase and the PPI would have meant she could have left her savings intact.  If shed 
needed to, she could have used them for other  essential living costs if she lost her job or 
couldnt work. So I still think the PPI could have been useful.
Theres nothing to make me think the cost of the PPI was unaffordable  for her or that she 
had a particular  need to keep her cost down when  she took it out.
Overall, when taking everything  into consideration, I think  its likely Mrs C chose the cover.  
So it looks  like she wanted this type of insurance.  I think the policy  could have been useful if 
something went wrong and for the reasons  Ive given,  I dont  think  Mrs C would have been  
put off taking it out even with better or clearer information. So I dont think  Mrs C has lost out 
as a result  of anything  FICL may have done  wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019. 
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0383214