K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  AvantCredit of UK, LLC (AvantCredit) acted irresponsibly when they lent 
him money.
background
Mr L brought his concerns to us as he was unhappy  with the response he received from 
AvantCredit when  complained to them about the loan of £5000 taken on 26 May 2017.
AvantCredit didnt  uphold his complaint. They told Mr L theyd undertaken a thorough 
investigation to examine  all aspects of his application and outlined the steps theyd  taken. 
But overall AvantCredit didnt consider that theyd failed to properly assess the affordability 
of an additional  credit obligation for him prior to making a credit decision for his loan 
application.
Our investigator found the checks that Avantcredit did were  proportionate based on the 
amount borrowed.  He appreciated  Mr L thought  £5000 was a significant  amount and wasnt 
trying to understate  what Mr L had reported. But he didnt think  the amount borrowed at the 
time warranted further checks. The investigator  also considered whether Advantcredit ought 
to have known  about Mr Ls gambling  problem to establish whether they had a duty of care. 
But as Mr L had told him hed not informed Advantcredit about his gambling  addiction at the 
time the investigator  was unable to say that they should've been aware and factored this in 
their affordability checks. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr L didnt agree. He said whilst his salary  was high, in comparison to the loan repayments,  
he thought AvantCredit should  have also asked for bank statements. And he based  this on 
the fact that his credit report would have shown  numerous high interest credit cards,  all up to 
their limit and with minimum repayments,  and that he had a large overdraft and a history of 
dependency on payday loans. Mr L thought all of these factors  should've  been a trigger  to 
delve more, into his finances. He asked  for an ombudsman to review his case  and make  a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in his letter  
giving his opinion  so I wont repeat that here. Im afraid theres  not a great deal I can add to 
what the investigators already told Mr L. I think hes covered most points quite clearly and I 
agree with his analysis  and overall  outcome.
Ultimately its for a bank  to decide  what affordability criteria to apply and what  risk it was 
willing to take when it lends money. But the industry rules and guidance for lenders  
although not giving a set list of checks - says checks must be proportionate  and give 
examples of factors to be considered. The information AvantCredit  have  sent satisfies me 
the checks they did before making  the decision to lend were  proportionate based on the 
amount borrowed  and the information available to them  both from Mr L and external 
agencies. 
Ref: DRN05341332I know Mr L thinks AvantCredit  shouldve  done more checks based on his credit record,  hes 
mentioned asking for his bank statements in particular. But I disagree. I think the checks  
they carried out here were reasonable and proportionate. The credit file show  his accounts 
were generally well maintained. And, as the investigators touched on in his second  view, 
AvantCredits responsibility was to make sure Mr L could afford  the repayments not to make 
a judgement about the nature of Mr Ls income or take a detailed  look at the day to day 
transactions in his account.
Mr L told our investigator he hadnt informed  AvantCredit of his gambling addiction at the 
time of the application. So, whilst  I dont  underestimate the difficulties Mr L mayve had, I 
dont think its reasonable to expect AvantCredit to know he had a gambling problem, when 
he applied  for the loan.
Im aware Mr L feels strongly  about AvantCredits  conduct. But I hope Ive explained  why, 
from everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly  and reasonably 
uphold. Mr Ls had the benefit  of the money hes borrowed. Given how strongly Mr L feels 
about what happened he may want to pursue the matter further through  other routes.  But my 
decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with AvantCredit 
informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr L.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0534133