K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how hes been treated by Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as 
Moneyway, after they terminated a hire purchase  agreement, for a car he had with them.
background
Mr H acquired  a used car, under a hire purchase  agreement with Secure Trust in January 
2018. Within the first two months of having the car, Secure Trust werent  satisfied with the 
insurance cover Mr H said he had in place. But, Mr H was able to provide proof he was 
adequately insured and Secure Trust cancelled the termination notice that they had sent to 
him.
In April 2018, Secure  Trust  say they were contacted by the police and were given 
information that the car was at risk of being seized. They say this was a breech of contract 
by Mr H and sent a second  termination  notice, to recover the car from him. Mr H says he 
tried to get further  information from the police, but was unable  to find out any more about 
what theyd told Secure  Trust, or to stop the recovery of the car.
After Secure Trust collected the car from Mr H, they sold it at auction. The proceeds  from the 
sale were used to reduce  the amount Mr H owed under the hire purchase agreement. 
Secure Trust then asked  Mr H to repay  the remaining balance  owed  under  the agreement.
Around this time, Mr H says he wasnt well and needed to go into hospital. Mr H also says he 
was experiencing some  very difficult personal  circumstances. Secure  Trust say they gave 
Mr H some space  whilst he recovered his health,  and in July 2018 arranged  a repayment 
plan with him.
Mr H didnt make any repayments under the plan and in October  2018,  he complained to 
Secure Trust.  He said Secure Trust hadnt told him what they had based their decision on. 
He asked Secure  Trust to stop chasing  him for repayment and says they sold the car for 
nearly as much as he paid for it.
In their final response to Mr H, Secure Trust said they hadnt seen any evidence  to suggest 
what the police had told them was incorrect. They still expected  Mr H to repay the balance 
owed under the hire purchase  agreement. But, Secure Trust gave Mr H more time, in light of 
his health and reduced the balance he owed by ten percent  to £6,153.01.
Mr H didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
his case and concluded that Secure  Trust had treated Mr H fairly. They  said the terms of the 
hire purchase agreement allowed Secure Trust to terminate the contract, if they suspected  
the car was at risk. They also found that it was reasonable for Secure Trust to act on the 
information given  to them by the police and that they could ask Mr H to repay  to the amount  
outstanding under the agreement.
Mr H didnt agree and has asked why Secure  Trust were able to recover the car, despite the 
police telling  him they had no further information. But, the investigator  remained satisfied that 
Secure Trust had treated  Mr H fairly and didnt change their conclusions.  
The case  has now been referred to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN03247242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quite some  time has passed since the investigator  came to their conclusions. I acknowledge 
that Mr H has waited  since  then for an outcome, and I thank him for his patience.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations.  Ive also 
thought about any regulators rules, guidance  and standards, codes of practice, and where  
appropriate, what I consider was good industry  practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with 
a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit  agreement 
which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
the ending of the hire purchase agreement
Secure Trust have  explained they decided  to terminate Mr Hs agreement and take back the 
car, because  they felt it was at risk of destruction, following the information given to them by 
the police. Section 15 of the terms of Mr Hs hire purchase agreement with Secure Trust say:
(a)We will assume that you refuse  to comply  with this agreement, and we will be entitled to 
end it after giving  you the notice required by law, if:
(vi) any of the following  happens:
We reasonably believe our rights in the Vehicle are at risk.
In certain circumstances, I think the terms and conditions of Mr Hs contract with Secure  
Trust allow them to end the hire purchase  agreement. Ive carefully  considered the 
information given  to Secure Trust by the police, to decide if those circumstances cold be 
reasonably applied in Mr Hs case. 
I can see that the police explained to Secure Trust that they believed Mr H wasnt insured  
correctly to drive the car, after asking him for the policy details. And as part of the 
investigation that followed, I can see that there was a possibility the car would be seized by 
the police  and disposed of.
Under Mr Hs hire purchase agreement, Secure Trust remained the supplier and owner of 
the car until Mr H had paid them all the amounts due. Therefore, I think it was reasonable for 
Secure Trust to be concerned about  what may happen to the car and that they wanted to 
make sure it wasnt  at risk.
Mr H says that the police  havent told him what information they passed to Secure Trust, and 
I accept he may have only become aware, after he had brought  his case  to us. The police 
had serious concerns about the insurance cover  Mr H said he had arranged. I think  its fair 
for Secure  Trust to have  asked Mr H to have an adequate and appropriate  insurance  policy  
in place. Having  considered all the evidence, I dont think Secure Trust treated Mr H unfairly, 
when they acted on information  given  to them by the police. I think  Secure  Trust fairly  
applied the terms  and conditions of their hire purchase agreement with Mr H, when they 
chose to end it.
the balance due under  the agreement
Ref: DRN03247243Mr Hs hire purchase agreement contains a term which explains what will happen if the 
agreement is ended  by Secure Trust. Section 15 (b) says:
If we end this agreement,  we may take back the vehicle from you and you must pay us:
i)all amounts you owe us under this agreement;
ii)the balance  of the Total Amount  Payable LESS
any rebate (reduction)  of charges you may be entitled to; and
any money we receive from selling  the Vehicle after we have taken off all costs  in 
relation to the recovery and disposal of the Vehicle, insurance and storage.
Ive concluded  that Secure Trust treated Mr H fairly when  they decided  to end the hire 
purchase agreement.  Ive carefully considered the terms  of that agreement, where it 
describes Mr Hs responsibility towards  the amounts owed, after the agreement is ended. 
Having done so, I think the agreement  sets out that Mr H was still responsible for any 
amount outstanding, after the car was sold by Secure Trust. On the face of it, I think  Secure 
Trust are able to pursue  Mr H for the remaining amount, after any relevant reductions,  like 
the sale of the car, are applied.
However, Mr H says that Secure Trust sold the car for nearly as much as he paid for it. And 
has questioned  the amount Secure Trust have  asked him to repay.  So, Ive considered if its 
fair for Secure Trust to ask Mr H to repay more than he paid for it.
Ive looked at the amounts due under  the hire purchase agreement Mr H had with Secure 
Trust. Apart from the cash price of the car, the amounts  also include, interest applied to the 
amount borrowed  by Mr H and charges for the collection activity, which happened in June 
2018. 
Secure Trust have  provided us with an up to date statement for the amounts due under the 
agreement. From this, I can see how Secure  Trust have calculated  the balance,  they say 
Mr H owes. I think  the statement shows where  interest and collection activity  charges were 
added. I can also see where the proceeds of the sale of the car, were used to reduce the 
balance.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I think the hire purchase agreement  explains that 
if ended, Mr H would be responsible for more than just the cash price  of the car. I 
acknowledge that Mr H has indicated  he should only have  to repay  the cash  price, and the 
terms of the agreement mean hell be expected  to pay significantly more than that. But, I 
think the statement  showing  the amount due, fairly demonstrates how Secure Trust reached 
that figure.  So, I dont  think  Secure  Trust have treated Mr H unfairly here.
Around the time Secure Trust sold the car, Mr H was experiencing ill health  and some 
difficult personal circumstances.  I can see from Secure  Trusts contact  records  that they 
agreed to give Mr H some space, until he was well enough to talk about a repayment plan. 
The contact  records show that Secure Trust agreed  this on 20 June 2018 and didnt try to 
contact Mr H again until 18 July 2018.
I can also see that in June 2018, Secure  Trust offered to reduce the outstanding balance by 
ten percent.  I dont  doubt that this offer was made, partly to help Mr H with the situation he 
found himself in. But, I think it was also made to incentivise Mr H to settle the amount  owed,  
for Secure  Trusts own benefit.
Ref: DRN03247244In all the circumstances, I dont think Secure Trust treated  Mr H unfairly, when they asked 
him to repay the remaining amount owed under the hire purchase agreement. I also think 
they dealt with Mr H sympathetically when offering to reduce the balance by ten percent, and 
with the time they gave Mr H, in light of his personal  and financial circumstances.
I acknowledge that the outstanding balance owed under the hire purchase agreement, may 
place an onus on Mr H to make regular repayments.  That is, if he cannot  repay  the balance 
in one lump sum. Whilst I think  Secure  Trust have treated Mr H fairly, I remind  them that they 
have an obligation  to Mr H, to treat his financial circumstances  with forbearance and due 
consideration, when they look to agree further  repayment plans  with him.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2021.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0324724