K820x#14complaint
Mrs C through her representative F complains that Ulster Bank  Ltd unfairly and 
unreasonably charged  an early repayment  charge (ERC) when she ported a mortgage 
product to a new property.  She wants the ERC  repaid.
background
Mrs C had a mortgage  product  with Ulster  Bank, which if repaid early would mean an ERC 
would be claimed.  F said that a 2016 agreement  (a product  offer)  allowed the mortgage 
product to be ported (transferred)  to the new property, and the ERC would be repaid  as long 
as the port happened before 31 January 2019. The original mortgage  was paid in July 2018 
and the ERC  was charged.  It wasnt refunded when Mr and Mrs C took out a new mortgage 
in late January 2019 to repay  money borrowed elsewhere to buy a new property, about four 
months after the 2018 mortgage offer had been made.
Mrs C complained to Ulster  Bank. It explained  that Mrs C took out a new mortgage product 
in September  2016, and the ERC  period ended on 31 January  2019.  The property was sold 
in July 2018, but the 2016 product  offer said that if the interest rate was ported to a new 
property within six months  of 6 July 2018,  the ERC  would be waived. The new mortgage 
wasnt in place until more  than six months  later; Ulster Bank said this meant  that the ERC 
wasnt refundable under the terms of the agreement.
F complained to us. The investigators view was that Ulster Banks position was correct and 
the 2016 product offer only gave six months  from 6 July 2018  to put a new mortgage in place 
to get the ERC refunded. The fact that F was unaware of the time limit as it wasnt  in the 
2018 mortgage offer didnt change the basis of the 2016 agreement; the 2018  offer also had 
a new four month limit to port within it, the investigator said shouldve prompted  F to check  
the position. The investigator made the point that Mrs C had seen and accepted the 2016  
offer, and Ulster Bank hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably.
F disagreed.  It said that the porting window should  be the same as the ERC  period.  The 
investigator pointed  out that this wasnt what the 2016  agreement  said,  and the original 
mortgage had been repaid in full in 2018  this meant that the period of time to port without 
paying the ERC was six months  from the repayment  of the original mortgage. F said that the 
position of Ulster Bank was commercially  unattractive; the investigator  said that thered been 
plenty of time to port the mortgage  after the original mortgage had been repaid and the 
position had been clearly  set out to Mr and Mrs C. F said that Ulster  Bank  was estopped  
from relying on the six month porting period.  The investigator didnt  change  her view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The legal agreement  between  Ulster Bank and Mrs C is set out clearly in the product offer of 
2016. The ERC will be claimed if the mortgage is repaid on or before 31 January 2019.  The 
ERC period is not the same as the period  of grace  given to Mrs C under the product offer if 
she wants to reclaim the ERC paid by porting  the mortgage. Indeed,  standard industry 
practice is that the ERC  period is unrelated to any such  concession.
Ref: DRN01885352What the 2016  product offer says is if Mrs C wants to port the mortgage product but also sell 
the original property first (which means  the mortgage is repaid early),  she can claim a refund 
of the ERC if she ports the product to a new mortgage within  six months of the payment of 
the original mortgage.  This is a common feature and well known within  the industry and 
conveyancers; what can change is the length of the period of grace  given to port.
And this is what happened. By 2018,  the period for products taken  out then (or new 
mortgages) had changed to four months.  But this didnt affect Mrs C who was covered by the 
2016 product  offer,  which  gave her six months.
F has argued that the 2018  mortgage  offer shouldve  told it about the 2016 concession  about 
how long Mrs C had to port the mortgage. But the 2018 offer was a separate  transaction,  
about a different property and a different mortgage (the porting of the product doesnt mean 
that the mortgage has transferred). The information about the six month period had already 
been given to Mrs C within  the product offer and shed accepted  it by taking out the product.
F has argued that Ulster Bank is estopped from relying on the six month porting window. I 
disagree, both as a matter  of law and on the basis of what  is fair and reasonable. Nothing  
within the later documentation said that Ulster  Bank was waiving the six month porting 
period. The contents of mortgage offers, including the 2018 offer, are strictly regulated and 
the porting window from a mortgage  which has been  paid would  not be dealt with there. Its 
unfortunate that F wasnt made aware  by his clients of the porting window, but such a policy 
is common and its fair and reasonable to Ulster Bank to expect either Mrs C to mention it to 
F or for F to ask about it in the circumstances. There was no obligation on it to repeat the 
information already  supplied.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  my decision before 
24 February 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0188535