K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that TFS Loans Limited shouldnt  have accepted him as a guarantor on a 
loan provided  to a friend (the borrower). He says that TFS was irresponsible  when it 
accepted him as the guarantor because it didnt adequately check  hed be able to afford to 
repay the loan if the borrower failed  to repay  it.
background
Mr F agreed  to be a guarantor on a loan taken by the borrower in March  2016. The loan 
amount was £3,000. It was to be repaid over 60 months through  monthly instalments of 
around £117. 
At the time the loan was agreed  the borrower lived in Mr Fs house and paid Mr F rent. He 
has since moved out. The borrower  has failed to meet his all his loan repayments to TFS 
which has enforced the terms of the guarantee against Mr F.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Fs complaint and concluded that TFS shouldnt  have 
accepted Mr F as the borrowers guarantor. TFS didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the 
complaint came to me, an ombudsman, for a decision. 
A few weeks  ago I issued  a provisional  decision.  In this I explained why I was planning to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint for broadly similar reasons to our adjudicator.  In addition, I outlined  
why I was minded  to make an award  to Mr F for his trouble and upset. I invited the parties  to 
let me have  anything  else they wanted  me to think about before I reconsidered my decision.
Mr F has confirmed that he accepts my provisional decision. There  has been  some 
communication between  our adjudicator  and TFS which raised some additional points. 
However, TFS has agreed to put things  right in line with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TFS provided the loan in question while it was authorised and regulated  by the Financial  
Conduct Authority  (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  sets out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
guarantor loan providers  like TFS when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms 
obligations in relation  to responsible lending.  
Before the FCA became  the regulator  it had been the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) which 
was responsible for licensing  consumer credit providers. 
Theres a high degree of alignment between the OFTs Irresponsible  Lending Guidance 
(ILG) - which had been published in 2010  - and the rules set out in CONC 5. A number of 
Ref: DRN09566922the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance.
For example, Section  5.2.1R of CONC sets out what a lender needs  to do before agreeing  to 
give a borrower a loan.  It says:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2) it says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
Ref: DRN09566923CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarifies  what  is meant  by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G (4) adds  that if a firm does take account of income  and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
CONC also contains the additional  obligations owed by guarantor  loan providers to 
guarantors when providing a guarantor loan.  The additional requirements in relation to an 
assessment of the guarantors circumstances are contained in CONC 5.2.5R. It says: 
(1) This rule applies if, in relation to a regulated  credit agreement:
(a)  an individual other than the borrower (in this rule referred to as the guarantor) is 
to provide a guarantee  or an indemnity (or both);  and
(b)  the lender  is required to undertake  an assessment  of the customer under CONC 
5.2.1R or CONC 5.2.2R.
(2) Before entering  into the regulated credit agreement, the lender must undertake an 
assessment of the potential for the guarantors commitments in respect  of the 
regulated credit  agreement to adversely  impact the guarantors financial situation.
(3) A firm must consider sufficient information to enable it to make  a reasonable 
assessment under  this rule, taking  into account the information  of which  the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated credit  agreement is to be made.
Ref: DRN09566924(4) For the purposes of (2), CONC 5.2.3G, CONC 5.2.4G and CONC 5.3.1G to CONC 
5.3.8G apply  as if:
(a)references to the customer were  references  to the guarantor;  and
(b) references to CONC  5.2.2R(1) were references to CONC 
5.2.5R(2).
This last paragraph means that some  of the rules in CONC, relevant to the assessments 
undertaken in respect of a borrower,  apply equally to assessments in respect of a guarantor.  
So the bar isnt lower  when lenders  are making  an assessment as regards the guarantor. 
They had the same obligations  in relation  to guarantors  as they did for borrowers as regards 
the scope of the assessment, what is proportionate,  and the assessment of the guarantors  
ability to meet repayments  in a sustainable manner without incurring financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant consequences.
CONC 5.2.6G clarifies  this further  and contains  some guidance on the scope of the 
assessment of the guarantor. And it says:
(1) The assessment  of the guarantor does not need to be identical to the 
assessment undertaken in respect of the borrower, but should be sufficient in 
depth and scope having regard to the potential obligations  which  might fall on 
the guarantor.
(2) The provision of the guarantee or indemnity  (or both),  and the assessment of 
the guarantor  under  CONC 5.2.5R, does not remove or reduce  the obligation 
on the lender  to carry out an assessment of the borrower under CONC 5.2.1R 
or CONC 5.2.2R. Firms are reminded of the rule in CONC  5.3.4R that the 
assessment of the borrower must not be based primarily  or solely  on the 
value of any security provided  by the borrower.
CONC 4 sets out a firms obligations,  in relation to the provision of information, prior to 
contracting with consumers. A firm is required to provide adequate explanations when 
providing loans.  The additional explanations firms  are required to provide to guarantors  are 
set out in CONC 4.2.22R. It says:  
(1) This rule applies if:
(a) a firm is to enter into a regulated credit agreement;  and
(b) an individual other than the borrower (in this rule referred to as the 
guarantor) is to provide  a guarantee or an indemnity (or both) in relation to 
the regulated  credit  agreement
(2) The firm must,  before making the regulated credit agreement,  provide  the 
guarantor with an adequate explanation of the matters in (3) in order to place 
the guarantor  in a position to make an informed  decision as to whether to act 
as the guarantor in relation to the regulated credit agreement.
(3) The matters are:
(a) the circumstances in which the guarantee  or the indemnity (or both) 
might be called on; and
Ref: DRN09566925(b) the implications for the guarantor of the guarantee or the indemnity (or 
both) being called on.
(4) For the purposes of (2), the rules and guidance listed in (5) apply as if:
(a) references to the customer were  references  to the guarantor;  and
(b) references to CONC 4.2.5R were references to this rule.
(5) The rules and guidance are:
(a) CONC 4.2.6G to CONC 4.2.7AG;
CONC 4.2.6G (referred  to above) says:
The explanation provided by a lender  or a credit  broker under CONC 4.2.5 R should 
enable the customer  to make a reasonable assessment as to whether the customer 
can afford the credit and to understand the key associated risks.
[Note: paragraph 3.3 (box) of ILG]
CONC 4.2.7G says:
In deciding on the level and extent of explanation  required by CONC 4.2.5 R, 
the lender or credit broker should consider (and each of them should ensure that 
anyone acting on its behalf should  consider),  to the extent appropriate to do so, 
factors including:
(1)the type of credit  being sought;
(2)the amount  and duration of credit  to be provided;
the actual and potential costs of the credit ;
(2B) the risk to the customer  arising from the credit  (the risk to the customer  is 
likely to be greater the higher the total cost of the credit relative to 
the customers financial situation);
(2C) the purpose of the credit, if the lender or (as the case may be) the credit 
broker knows what that purpose is;
(3) to the extent it is evident and discernible,  the customer's level of understanding of 
the agreement, and of the information  and the explanation provided  about the 
agreement; and
(4) the channel  or medium through which the credit transaction  takes place.
[Note: paragraph 3.4 of ILG]
Finally CONC  3 sets out a firms  obligations  when communicating with its customers. And     
CONC 3.3.2R contains general guidance regarding the clarity  of a firms communications 
with customers. It says:
A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion:
(1) uses plain and intelligible language 
(2) is easily legible (or, in the case of any information given orally,  clearly audible)
Ref: DRN09566926I also mentioned in my provisional decision that whilst  CONC set out the regulatory  
framework that authorised  consumer credit providers have to adhere to it represents a 
minimum standard for firms. And - as an ombudsman - Im also required to take into account 
any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice,  and, where appropriate, what 
I consider to have been good industry  practice.
I mentioned the FCAs Portfolio Strategy Letter  to firms providing high cost lending  products. 
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we 
analysed their strategies  and business models.  We considered a wide range of 
information and data, including firms regulatory  histories, the number and nature of 
complaints, and findings from the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on 
guarantor lenders, which involved issuing a data request to firms  in October  2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  
the High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may 
not be able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
the proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section headed Complaints  it says:
We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations,  including analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant 
decisions. We gave  further detail about what we expect from firms  complaint-
handling procedures  in the Dear  CEO  letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 
2018. This is equally relevant to all firms in the portfolio.
Further detail in relation to the FCAs future work  was provided  on page four of the letter.  
The section headed Additional focus  for firms providing guarantor lending said:
As well as the areas of focus above,  we will also prioritise our supervisory work with 
firms that provide guarantor loans in the following area: 
Payments made by guarantor:  
Our diagnostic work on guarantor lending showed  that many guarantors  make at 
least one repayment  and the proportion  of guarantors making payments is growing. 
We want to understand  the root causes for this increase, and whether firms  are 
conducting adequate affordability assessments. We are also concerned that 
Ref: DRN09566927guarantors may not fully understand  how likely  it is that they will be called upon to 
make a payment.  So, as well as our broad portfolio-wide work on relending,  we will 
start a piece  of complementary work on guarantor lending.  This will establish whether 
potential guarantors have  enough information to understand the likelihood and 
implications of the guarantee being enforced.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are four overarching questions I need  to consider in order  to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Fs complaint. The questions  are:
1.Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that the borrower 
would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?  
If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
If not, would  those checks have shown that the borrower wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did TFS obtain Mr Fs properly informed consent  before binding him to the guarantee 
and indemnity agreement?
3.Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr F was in 
a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not?
If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr F wouldve been able to do so?
4.Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I determine that TFS didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and that he 
has lost out as a result,  I will go on to consider how TFS should  put things right.
This is what  I said in my provisional  decision:
1.Did TFS complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the borrower 
would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way? 
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations  in place at the time TFS provided the loan to the 
borrower. It had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment  of whether he could 
afford to repay  his loan in a sustainable way. The fact that there was a guarantee and indemnity 
agreement in place - and so the potential for TFS to pursue Mr F instead of the borrower - doesnt 
lessen that obligation.
However, the borrower isnt a party to this complaint. And I dont have information about his 
circumstances or evidence  of what  TFS did before it agreed to lend to him. But as it happens, I 
dont think I need to make a finding on this question for reasons Ill explain below.
2.Did TFS obtain Mr Fs properly informed consent before binding him to the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement?
TFS was required to obtain Mr Fs properly informed consent before binding him to the guarantee 
and indemnity agreement. This could only be done  after having provided him with an adequate  
explanation of the circumstances in which the guarantee and indemnity might  be called upon and 
what the implications of this would be for Mr F. 
Ref: DRN09566928Although Mr F describes  himself as being nave  when he agreed to be a guarantor, it isnt part of 
his complaint that TFS failed to inform him of the consequences of being the guarantor. However, 
given the outline of the regulations (above)  and the recent concerns raised  by the FCA, I think 
there is a question  around whether TFS made the risks involved clear  enough  to Mr F. But as with 
question 1 I dont think I need to make  a finding  on this point. This is because  I am planning  to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint as Im satisfied that TFS failed to do enough  in respect of its obligations 
under question 3.   
3.Did TFS complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F was in a 
position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, would those  checks have shown that Mr F wouldve  been able to do so?
The rules and regulations required TFS to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment  
of whether Mr F could  afford to repay this loan in a sustainable  manner should  the borrower fail to 
do so. It had to carry out this guarantor-focused assessment in addition to any checks  it was 
required to undertake in relation to the borrower.  In effect  this meant that TFS had to ensure  that, 
if the guarantee was enforced against  Mr F, it wouldnt adversely impact Mr Fs financial situation. 
It had to consider  the effect of having to make  the loan repayments on Mr F if the borrower didnt.
The checks TFS did had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan.  And what  
is proportionate will depend on a number of factors  including things like the consumers financial 
history and current situation as well as things such as the amount, type,  cost of the credit being  
sought.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher  
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required  to make payments for an extended period); 
Ive carefully considered what a reasonable and proportionate check shouldve  looked like when 
TFS  was in the process of approving Mr F as the guarantor  for this loan which  - to confirm  - was 
a loan of £3,000 to be repaid over the following five years. The monthly repayments  were to be 
around £117,  meaning  that the total to be repaid was over £7,000. 
As I've mentioned  above  the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of 
credit granted  and the total charge for the credit,  relative  to the consumers financial situation. So 
it seems common  sense to me that a less detailed assessment   without need for verification,  is 
more likely  to be reasonable and proportionate in situations where  the amount  to be repaid  is 
relatively small and the term of the loan is relatively  short.
With this in mind, Im satisfied that TFS failed  to undertake a proportionate checks  when it 
approved Mr F as the guarantor  for the loan in question.  TFS shouldve carried out a much more 
thorough look into Mr Fs financial circumstances and verified the information  he provided.
I've listened to the completion call between Mr F and the TFS member of staff. This was made 
shortly before the loan was completed. 
I note that the TFS member of staff asked  Mr F some general introductory questions about how 
Mr F knew the borrower. She then asked him whether hed read an understood the various 
documents provided and Mr F confirmed  he had. She then asked Mr F Are you currently a 
Ref: DRN09566929guarantor for anybody  else on any other loans?  I'm satisfied that Mr F answered honestly when 
he replied that he was not. 
But this question was too narrow,  because had she asked  whether  Mr F was a guarantor on any 
other loans  he most likely  wouldve replied  that he was: he was a guarantor  for the same borrower 
on another loan. It strikes  me that this was very important  information and the opportunity to 
obtain it was missed  by the member of staff.  I suspect  that had TFS realised that Mr F was acting 
as a guarantor for the same  borrower on another loan it wouldve  were it acting responsibly  
most likely declined  Mr F as the guarantor on this loan.  
It was open to TFS to go through Mr Fs detailed financial circumstances during  this call  
something I think wouldve been proportionate here. 
But during this call there was no detailed  discussion  of Mr Fs finances. He confirmed  hed 
recently re-mortgaged and from April his monthly repayment was to be £570. He confirmed he 
had a personal loan to consolidate his earlier  credit  which  was costing £233 per month.  Mr F told 
the staff member that he paid his bills monthly and was organised  about that but she didnt 
enquire any further  into those bills. 
It also seems to me that TFS placed  a good deal of weight on the forms completed and signed by 
Mr F before the completion call. In the one page application  form (half of which  was directed at 
the borrower) Mr F was asked to confirm a number of details including  his employment, his 
housing and personal situation, his total monthly income and his monthly  mortgage cost. He 
declared a monthly  income of £1,818  and that his mortgage was £570.
In the monthly income and expenditure details form Mr F declared that his wages and salary 
amounted to £1,818. He didnt include any other figures for monthly income,  although rental 
income net of expenses and mortgage payments was one of the categories of income.  
Under the committed  monthly expenditure section there were  six categories: 
mortgage
hire purchase personal  loans, overdraft
credit/charge/store cards/catalogues
payments under  a DMP or IV
alimony/child maintenance
other committed expenditure (specify)
Mr F again confirmed that his mortgage was £570.47. He also added  that he had two personal 
loans being repaid at £253 per month and that he had three credit cards (£109, £875,  £395). The 
monthly cost of those was stated to be £41.37. So his total monthly  expenditure  was stated to be 
£864.84. This then gave  a figure of £953.16 as being available after payment of Mr Fs financial  
commitments.  
But - as with the completion call - there were no questions about Mr Fs normal  monthly 
outgoings. 
Ill refer to Mr Fs normal monthly outgoings below  but at this point I think its important  to look at 
his income and what TFS wouldve learnt had it adequately checked this aspect of his finances. 
I note that TFS was made aware  by the borrower  that he was living with Mr F and paying him 
£200 per month  rent. This was also mentioned in the completion call with Mr F. But TFS didnt 
ever clarify whether Mr Fs monthly income figure included the rental  income  from the borrower. 
He didnt include a figure for rental income  on the form.  TFS shouldve done  this at the very least 
 if only to clarify an inconsistency. If it had I'm satisfied  that it wouldve  realised the figure 
declared by Mr F was his total income  including  the rent from the borrower. This is because  I can 
see from his bank statements that Mr F was paid his salary fortnightly  at around £748  which  
equates to a monthly wage  of £1,620. When the borrowers rent is added to that figure  the total 
Ref: DRN095669210income of around  £1,820  is achieved   almost  exactly what Mr F declared to be his monthly 
income.
CONC 5.3.1G(4)(b)  says that where a lender takes income or expenditure  into account,  it is not 
generally sufficient  for it to rely solely on a statement of those matters  made by the customer. TFS 
says it did more than rely on what Mr F told it. TFS says it used Mr Fs declared income figure  
using its on line verification  tool which was linked  to Mr Fs bank account.  It says this uses  
personal current account credit turnover data to determine whether there is a sufficient, consistent 
and stable turnover to support  an applicants  declared  income amount. It concludes that, because  
of this, it didnt have  to seek Mr Fs payslips.    
Im not saying that TFS had to see payslips  but they wouldve confirmed what Mr Fs salaried 
income was. Bank statements could also have clarified  that.  But  I dont agree  that TFSs tool, 
alone, was enough  to accurately verify Mr Fs salaried income. It may have given a picture (a ball-
park figure  if you like) of what  was going into Mr Fs account  based on what hed told TFS. But 
I'm not persuaded that was sufficient in the circumstances. The tool wouldnt have broken  down 
the sources of income.  If it did it wouldve revealed to TFS that Mr Fs salary was around £200 
less than hed declared and that he was receiving £200 per month rent from the borrower.
I think  that this was key information which  TFS shouldve  obtained, but didnt.
I accept that Mr F hadnt  broken down his income  into his salary and rental but had TFS checked 
this and done  a proportionate  check  Im satisfied  that it wouldve realised this. And it seems to me 
that the income figures used by TFS in its assessment  included the rental  paid by the borrower to 
Mr F. 
TFS says that it had no reason to believe  that the borrower would  not continue to live with Mr F 
because he had done so for four years. It adds that the purpose declared  by the borrower for the 
loan, was to make improvements to his bedroom.  TFS says this indicated the borrower intended  
to continue to reside with Mr F. I accept that the borrower probably planned to continue living with 
Mr F at that time. I expect he also intended  to repay the loan. But circumstances  change. And as 
I've pointed out  this loan was to be repaid over a five year term. Both the borrower and Mr F 
were relatively young  men. A lot can happen in five years. Indeed it did. I understand that the 
borrower lost his job and he left Mr Fs house.  Mr F has married and had a baby. So I dont think 
it was reasonable for TFS to conclude  that the domestic arrangements would remain  unchanged. 
The likelihood  of circumstances changing  over the following five years was something TFS 
shouldve borne  in mind when  considering what a proportionate assessment should look like. 
And this leads to another significant issue which arises out of the lender  taking account of rental 
income being  paid by a borrower to their loan guarantor, when assessing whether the guarantor 
would be able to afford the repayments if the borrower  failed to meet them.  I think that if a 
borrower is in a situation  where they cant pay their loan its reasonably foreseeable that they 
might also be unable to pay their rent too. And so if the borrower is struggling financially and fails 
to meet their commitments,  the impact  on the guarantor is likely  to be a double blow. Not only 
does the guarantor no longer receive  the rent but also the guarantee is enforced  and they are 
called upon to make  payment on the loan.
Disregarding the rental income, Mr Fs monthly income  salary  amounted to around £1,620 and 
this is the figure TFS shouldve used in its assessment of affordability  for Mr F.
I've also thought about whether TFS did enough to establish Mr Fs monthly  expenditure. By 
clarifying what Mr F was spending every  month on his normal living costs TFS wouldve 
established a reasonably  accurate idea of what Mr Fs disposable income would be. After all it 
would be from Mr Fs disposable income that he would have to repay TFS if the guarantee was 
enforced.  But TFS based  its assessment on some declared figures for credit commitments 
without satisfying itself about Mr Fs other normal  outgoings and it missed  a further opportunity to 
understand Mr Fs financial situation during  the completion call.
Ref: DRN095669211TFS says that the disposable income  figure of £953.16 it obtained was sufficient for Mr F to pay 
for everyday  expenses and emergencies  for the term of the loan. But - as I've mentioned  above - 
whilst it seems TFS made some enquiries  about Mr Fs credit commitments it didnt find out what  
other actual  monthly  commitments he had. 
As a householder its likely Mr F wouldve  had all the usual  monthly costs including things  such as 
utility bills, council tax, insurances, travel costs, food. I dont think  TFS had an accurate  enough 
picture of these normal outgoings. A proportionate assessment in the circumstances  of this loan 
application wouldve involved a clear understanding of all of Mr Fs financial commitments (not 
simply what he was paying to creditors) to establish whether he would  be in a position  to 
sustainably repay the loan if called upon to do so during the following five years.
I've had the benefit of carefully reviewing Mr Fs bank statements. I've mentioned that his salary 
amounted to around £1,620 per month. He had his mortgage of £570. Hed declared that he was 
paying off credit at around £300 per month. But on top of this he was paying normal  household  
bills including  over £100 per month in council tax. This was something our adjudicator  hadnt 
noticed because Mr F appears  to have paid it in 10 equal amounts which meant that in Feb and 
March he didnt  pay it; it began again at the start of the financial  year  April.  
Had TFS done what was reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances  it wouldve 
established that the total of Mr Fs monthly direct debits meeting his television, gas, electricity, 
insurances, and council  tax amounted to about £433. On top of that he had to pay his mortgage of 
£570 and his loan of £233. These figures were  easily  identifiable from Mr Fs bank statements 
and amounted to £1,236.  If Mr F were  called upon as the guarantor to the loan in question he 
would have to have paid TFS £117 each month.  This means he wouldve  had £268 a month from 
which to pay for his food and petrol as well as his credit  cards  (which hed told TFS were costing 
over £40 per month).  In other words Mr F would  have somewhere in the region of £50 per week 
for food and petrol. 
I havent taken account of other irregular,  unusual or unexpected expenses because even without 
those, a proportionate check wouldve  confirmed that Mr F wouldnt be able to afford the loan 
sustainably.
So I'm currently satisfied  that TFS shouldnt have approved Mr F as a guarantor for the borrowers 
loan. As it did, I think  it treated him unfairly.
4.Did TFS  act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Mr F accepts  that he was nave to agree to act as the borrowers guarantor on this second loan. 
But for the reasons outlined above  I'm satisfied that TFS didnt act fairly when it approved him as 
the guarantor. As a result of being approved and the later enforcement of a guarantee which  
shouldnt have been approved Mr F says that he and his family have been caused  considerable 
trouble and upset. 
Mr F has been very worried about the impact of having to meet the loan repayments.  I understand 
that he was even  contacted by TFS by emails  and text on his honeymoon  after the borrower had 
failed to pay. Mr Fs representative tells me that Mr Fs wife is under the care of a local mental  
health team and is on medication  and I understand that the strain has not only caused him stress 
it is also having a detrimental impact on his wife. 
Mr F is the sole earner in his family. He has particularly worried about  the prospect  of not being 
able to meet  the repayments  and the adverse  implications for his credit file  given  the job he has. 
As Mr F was so worried he contacted TFS to ask them to agree to settle the loan on payment of a 
£1,000 lump  sum. He intended  raising this by selling  what he describes as his one asset. He 
was hopeful TFS would  accept this as the principal  which had originally  been borrowed had been 
Ref: DRN095669212repaid. In his offer letter Mr F explained to TFS that he was the sole earner and that his wife had 
been treated  professionally for a number  of years for mental health issues and was becoming 
really poorly  again. 
But TFS refused Mr Fs offer.  And I havent seen anything which suggests  it put forward any 
alternative options either. So it seems it has continued to proceed  on the basis that Mr F is the 
guarantor and that is something to be enforced along the lines of the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement  without reflecting the difficulties Mr F was facing. In my view, rather than simply 
focusing on whether it ought to have accepted Mr F as a guarantor in the first place, TFS also 
needed to ensure it treated him positively and sympathetically. I dont think  TFS did this when  it 
refused his offer aware of the difficult  circumstances hed disclosed. This has caused Mr F stress  
and anxiety during what must already have been a difficult  time for him and his family. 
So I'm minded to conclude that TFS hasnt treated Mr F positively or sympathetically and so has 
acted unfairly  and unreasonably towards him. 
I've mentioned above that TFS and our adjudicator  have been in correspondence  since  I 
issued my provisional decision. Whilst I acknowledge that TFS may not agree with all of my 
conclusions it hasnt  provided me with anything that persuades me to alter those conclusions 
and it has already agreed to put things  right in the way I outlined.  So I uphold  Mr Fs 
complaint.
putting things right
I'm satisfied that TFS acted unfairly when it accepted Mr F as a guarantor on this loan. As he 
is now being expected by TFS to make repayments  on a loan he shouldnt have been 
accepted as a guarantor  for, I think he stands to lose out because  TFS did something wrong. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far 
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer bank in the position  they would be in now 
if that wrong hadnt  taken place. In essence, in this case, this means TFS putting  Mr F  in the 
position hed now be in if he hadnt  unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a guarantor 
on this loan.
I also have the power  to make an award to reflect any trouble or upset TFSs wrongdoing 
has caused Mr F.  I explained in my provisional  decision  why I was minded to make such an 
award and concluded that £250  would adequately reflect the trouble and upset Mr F has 
been caused. I noted TFS may not have been  aware of Mr Fs difficulties before he made  his 
complaint but at the point  he made his offer I was satisfied that it had failed to treat him fairly. 
I said that I thought  its failure to do so had resulted  in Mr F suffering additional  stress  which  
has impacted his broader family. I also explained  that I'm not able to make  an award to 
anyone other than Mr F. 
Ref: DRN095669213So this is how I require  TFS to put things right:
a)release Mr F from any obligations under the guarantee  and indemnity  agreement and 
then terminate it
b)refund  any loan payments Mr F has made and to each of those sums it must add 
8%* simple interest  a year, from the date Mr F paid them  to the date the refund is 
paid to him
c)remove any information  about  this loan from Mr Fs credit  file
d)pay Mr F a sum of £250 to reflect the trouble and upset caused to him when TFS 
acted unfairly and/or  unreasonably towards  him 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give Mr F a certificate  showing  
how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Fs complaint and 
require TFS Loans Limited  to put things  right in the way I've explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0956692