K820x#14complaint
The executor on behalf of the estate of Mr L complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services  
(UK) Limited (VWFS) irresponsibly approved a hire purchase agreement  for Mr L. 
background
In September  2016, Mr L acquired  a used car from a dealership using a hire purchase  
agreement from VWFS. The cash price of the car was £169,950.  Mr L part-exchanged his 
existing car for £94,950, he used £64,450 of that part-exchange  value as a deposit for the 
car, the remaining £30,500 was transferred to his bank account by the dealership. 
The remaining  £105,500  was financed with the hire purchase agreement. The agreement  
was for 24 months  with monthly repayments of around £1,250  and a final optional  payment 
of around £92,700.  
Sadly, Mr L passed away around  two months later. The executor of his estate raised  a 
complaint with both the dealership and VWFS regarding the sale of the hire purchase  
agreement. He didnt think adequate checks were carried out before the lending  was 
granted. He said that Mr L was in his late eighties, retired, terminally ill and owed hundreds  
of thousands of pounds at the time the agreement was incepted.  
The executor said that VWFS and the dealership had a duty of care to vulnerable consumers  
and should have conducted more  in-depth  checks into Mr Ls health  and whether he could 
afford the agreement. He said the dealership  and VWFS should have insisted there was a 
third party present with Mr L during the application to assist  him. 
VWFS didnt  uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out adequate affordability checks. It 
said Mr L had declared he was a retired director of a company and still drawing a regular 
salary. It said the company appeared to have a net worth in excess of one million  pounds 
and Mr L had no adverse  information recorded on his credit file. It said there was no 
indication that Mr L was in poor health and it couldnt have predicted he would die so soon. It 
said Mr L being in his late eighties  wouldnt have prevented it from lending to him as it 
doesnt discriminate  on age. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think VWFS had 
carried out adequate affordability  checks,  however, if they had asked for evidence  of Mr Ls 
income and expenditure it would have likely shown the agreement  was affordable to him. 
She said on this basis she didnt think VWFS had acted unfairly in lending  to him. Further,  
she wasnt persuaded VWFS knew about  Mr Ls poor health  and didnt think  they were 
required to insist someone else be present during the application process.  
The executor on behalf of the estate didnt agree. In summary he said:
Mr L wasnt a director of the company at the time. If VWFS had checked information 
about the company before lending as it claims, it ought to have seen this. 
Although Mr Ls bank statements show he was getting regular credits of £2,500  from 
the company,  this wasnt income.  This was money  he was borrowing from the 
company. In total he owed the company in excess of £200,000 and in excess  of 
£140,000 to the executor.  A simple request to see payslips would have  revealed  he 
wasnt drawing an income  from the company. 
He was terminally ill and any request  to his doctor about his health would have 
revealed he would be unlikely to make repayments for two years.  
Ref: DRN01109202Given his age and that he displayed signs of confusion  or wishful thinking  when 
taking out this agreement,  VWFS ought  to have had a third party  present. The 
executor wants the ombudsman to address where in the rules it says this duty of care 
didnt apply in the circumstances of this case.  
Where in the rules  does it say VWFS werent  required to carry out credible 
affordability and health  checks. 
As both parties didnt  agree,  the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive considered  amongst 
other things   the rules and guidance  for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) within the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions  I need to consider in order to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1.Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b.If not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that 
Mr L could sustainably  repay  the borrowing?
2.Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I think Mr L has been disadvantaged in any way by VWFS  actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr L would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable  way?
Before granting credit,  VWFS were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ls ability to sustainably  repay  the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr L could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering  his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely  he was to repay.  The latter,  is the risk 
posed to VWFS as the lender, or its credit  risk but this is not necessarily the same  as an 
assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited  to: 
The amount  of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
Ref: DRN01109203The total amount  repayable under the agreement  (including the deposit) was around 
£187,000. The monthly repayments  were around £1,250 over a 24 month term. Given  this 
was a significant amount to repay, my starting  point is that any reasonable assessment of 
affordability ought to have  been thorough. 
However, Im mindful that Mr L put down a large  deposit of nearly £65,000 and that the 
dealership paid him a further £30,500  into his bank account as the excess from his part-
exchange. This payment alone  would  have been  enough to cover the 24 monthly 
repayments of around £1,250. And as the final repayment of £92,700 was an optional  one, it 
might appear on the face of it to have been  an affordable arrangement.  
Having said this, VWFS couldnt have  known what Mr L was intending  to use that money for 
without asking further questions of him, which it doesnt appear to have done. So, I dont  
think it would  have  been reasonable for it to have concluded the agreement  was affordable 
on that basis alone (for clarity, it hasnt suggested it did this).  However,  I think  these wider 
circumstances are relevant when  considering  what a reasonable and proportionate check  
ought to have looked like. 
VWFS says it carried out a credit  check. This showed that Mr L only had two existing credit 
commitments. One was a credit card with a limit of £1,500 and the other a mail order 
account with a limit of £900. Both had relatively  low balances and had been managed well. 
I dont therefore  think there was anything contained within  the credit  check that ought to 
have alerted VWFS to any potential affordability  issues for Mr L. 
VWFS says it also modelled Mr Ls income  based on information  it had gathered  about him 
during the application, such as information about the company he said he was a director  of. 
VWFS hasnt  given us any information  about what income it estimated Mr L had nor how it 
arrived at whatever figure of income it eventually settled on. This is despite numerous 
requests from our service  to provide some further information.  VWFS  lack of response is 
disappointing and in the absence of this information,  Ive concluded that VWFS  didnt have 
any reasonable understanding of what Mr Ls income was. 
In any event, given  the large amount of credit it was advancing to Mr L over a relatively short  
period of time, and not withstanding the £30,500  payment he received, I think  it would have 
been reasonable and proportionate for VWFS to have  tried to verify Mr Ls income in some  
way. 
I dont think making a best guess was reasonable given the size of the commitment  and 
particularly because it was aware  that Mr L had declared he was retired. I think this would  
have made  it harder to predict what his salary might  have continued to be from the company 
he said still continued to pay him. Further, VWFS  appears to have estimated income  based  
on the net worth of the company, but I dont think this would give a reasonable estimate  of 
what any one employee might earn.
Further, I note that VWFS didnt look to find out anything about  what  committed expenditure 
Mr L had other than his existing credit commitments. Without  verifying his income or asking 
about his other commitments, VWFS  couldnt have possibly made  a reasonable conclusion 
that Mr L could afford such a large financial commitment. This is because,  as Ive said 
above, the payment the dealership made to him could  have  been  earmarked for something 
other than the VWFS agreement. 
Ref: DRN01109204Overall, I dont  think VWFS carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks  
before it lent to Mr L.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr L could  sustainably  repay 
the borrowing?
Its not clear what information or evidence VWFS  would have asked for to verify  Mr Ls 
income or what Mr L would have  told it about his other committed  expenditure had VWFS 
asked. Ive reviewed copies of Mr Ls bank statements  for the months leading up to the sale 
of the finance.  Im not suggesting  VWFS were required to review  Mr Ls bank  statements,  
but in the absence of anything else, I think this gives a good  indication of what information 
VWFS would likely  have  discovered had it looked to verify his income and asked about his 
expenditure in some  way.
Mr Ls bank statements appear to show he was receiving around £6,500 per month in 
income. The executor  has said the £2,500 monthly  payment from the company Mr L was 
previously a director of wasnt income  and was actually  money  he was borrowing. However, 
I dont think this is something VWFS would  have reasonably discovered even if it had carried 
out adequate affordability  checks. 
I think its unlikely Mr L would have  disclosed that the £2,500  was money  he was borrowing. 
It seems  clear  he likely  told the dealership the company was paying  him a salary,  and this is 
what it looked like on his bank statements.  The executor  has said that had VWFS asked for 
payslips it would have  been clear he wasnt earning  a salary. While this might have been the 
case, there wasnt a requirement on VWFS to check a payslip within the CONC rules.  
However, I do think in the circumstances  of this case, and taking into account  what the rules 
say, I think it ought to have tried to verify Mr Ls income. This could have been achieved  in a 
number of ways,  not just a payslip. 
Mr Ls bank statements also show his account  was substantially in credit,  on average at 
around £140,000. Further,  the executor has told us that Mr Ls estate was able to repay the 
over £200,000 of debt it says he owed to the company. Given all of this, it seems to me that 
had VWFS asked Mr L for proof  of his income or ability to repay the agreement, he would  
have likely been able to provide them with sufficient evidence to show  he was earning an 
income or had available funds which could comfortably support the repayments of the 
agreement. 
Further, from reviewing the bank statements it doesnt appear  that Mr Ls existing monthly 
commitments exceeded the income  he appeared to be receiving, or that he couldnt  afford  to 
sustain those commitments and the hire purchase  repayments over the two year term. For 
these reasons, I dont  think  VWFS  would have likely come to a different lending  decision had 
it carried out adequate checks on Mr Ls ability to repay the borrowing. 
While I dont think VWFS carried out adequate  affordability checks, I dont think its failure to 
do so caused  Mr L or his estate a loss. This is because had appropriate checks been 
completed, as required by the rules, its more  likely  than not VWFS would have still 
concluded the agreement was affordable and the estate would be in no different position 
now. 
Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ref: DRN01109205The executor says that Mr L was vulnerable and in ill health and VWFS had a duty of care to 
ensure a third party was present with him when  completing the application form. However, 
there was no requirement on VWFS  to ensure someone else was with him during the 
application. Mr L has asked me to highlight where in the rules it says they werent required to 
do this and werent required to carry out an assessment on Mr Ls health. But I cant  do that 
because the rules dont provide an exhaustive list of what lenders arent required to do. 
Instead, it sets out what they are required to do. 
There is no rule that requires lenders to carry out an assessment of someones health  before 
entering into a regulated  credit agreement. In summary, the rules set out that if the lender 
knows or suspects a consumer might  be vulnerable  or lacks  the mental  capacity to enter  into 
a contract, it is required to put steps in place to help the consumer understand what  it is 
theyre entering into. This doesnt necessarily mean insisting  on a third party  being  present 
during the application  process,  although in some specific circumstances that might be 
appropriate. 
Further, the rules say that where  the lender  knows  or reasonably suspects  the consumers 
circumstances are likely to change during the course of the agreement,  it needs  to take into 
account the impact  of that change. 
From everything Ive seen  here, Im not persuaded VWFS or the dealership (acting as 
VWFS agent for the purposes of brokering the finance agreement) were aware or ought to 
have been aware  that Mr L was either vulnerable  in some way, was terminally ill, or lacked 
the mental capacity  to enter into a regulated credit  agreement. The executor has told us Mr L 
was unlikely to have disclosed his illness to the dealership, so I dont  think  its reasonable to 
say they should have  known. And just because Mr L was in his late eighties  it doesnt mean  
the dealership  or VWFS ought to have automatically assumed he was vulnerable or lacked 
the capacity to contract.
While the executor has pointed to a spelling mistake in Mr Ls name on the application form, 
the dealership  has said this was because of a typing  error by them,  not Mr L. The executor 
says Mr L was very particular about the spelling of his name  and the fact he didnt ask for 
this to be corrected  shows something wasnt right. But I dont think  its reasonable for me to 
say VWFS  or the dealership ought to have  known what was or wasnt typical  behaviour for 
Mr L, or that Mr L overlooking this error meant  he was vulnerable  or lacking in capacity to 
contract.
Ive also noted  the executors concerns around  Mr L declaring he was still earning  a salary 
from the company  he had retired  from. But, as Ive set out above, I dont think any 
reasonable line of questioning would have revealed otherwise. I dont doubt Mr L wouldnt 
have been able to produce  a payslip, but he could have provided a bank  statement showing  
a regular credit from the company which would have  looked like a salary. 
While I dont dispute Mr L was very unwell, I cant reasonably say VWFS ought to have been 
aware of this at the time of granting  the credit or that there was any other reason why it 
would have been inappropriate to approve  the finance. For these  reasons,  I dont  think  
VWFS has acted  unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN01109206Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0110920