K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance, wont refund  to him the money  that he paid for a conservatory.  
background
Mr T entered  into a fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays  Partner  Finance that he 
electronically signed in October  2017 to pay for a conservatory. The cost of the conservatory 
was £17,797.28 and he made an advance payment of £99 so the loan was for £17,698.28.  
The loan was interest free for twelve  months.  
Mr T signed a satisfaction note in January 2018 so Barclays Partner Finance then paid the 
amount of the loan to the supplier. He contacted  Barclays Partner  Finance  in August 2018 
about some  issues with the conservatory  and the service that hed received. He claimed  a 
refund from it of the money that hed paid for the conservatory and compensation under  
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
It said that hed signed  the satisfaction  note and the supplier had offered to deal with the 
issues with the conservatory. It said that it had referred his complaint about the service 
issues to the supplier but paid Mr T £100 compensation for the length of time it had taken to 
respond to his concerns. Mr T wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this 
service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that 
neither Mr T nor Barclays Partner Finance disputed that thered been  a breach of contract. 
But she said that the suppliers remedy was fair and reasonable and it hadnt had the 
opportunity to try and put things right.
Mr T has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that the supplier  has been given a chance  to rectify the issues and has fixed  the leaking roof, 
re-set doors  that had dropped and investigated dampness on the interior wall and the 
electrician had to come  back to re-instate  the electricity over a month after the conservatory 
was fitted. He says that he also gave the supplier additional opportunities to come  and look 
at the glass roof when the temperatures was recorded at nearly 60oC - which it declined.
He says that the conservatory isnt of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose or as described and 
that it was misrepresented to him so he believes that hes within his rights  to have a full 
refund and its not reasonable  or acceptable  for the supplier to go back  to his premises for 
further repairs. He says that these issues have caused him a great deal of anxiety which  has 
exacerbated his long standing medical  issues. 
He refers to reviews from other customers about their conservatory  roofs leaking and says 
that theres another issue with his conservatory  as theres  condensation  inside the sealed  
window units as the seals have blown.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05865922In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ts complaint about Barclays 
Partner Finance,  I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the conservatory and that Barclays  Partner Finances 
response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the 
outcome of Mr Ts claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Mr T signed a satisfaction note in January 2018 which  said:
I confirm  that any installation work required has been completed to my full 
satisfaction and you are now authorised by me to pay the supplier 
Mr T then had some issues with the conservatory.  He contacted  Barclays Partner Finance 
about those issues  in August 2018.  It investigated his claim for a refund of the money that 
hed paid for the conservatory and sent him a final response letter  in December 2018. That 
letter said:
The retailer has since advised after a full inspection has been  carried  out they would 
be happy to return  to correct their error  and replace the current smart glass, for the 
contracted Ultra Blue 86 glass.  During the visit they will also attend to any 
remedial/technical issues which remain outstanding. This will then be observed over 
a timeframe of your choosing, to ensure this has been completed  to a respectable 
standard. Alternatively, if you wish to keep the installed glass,  they would be willing to 
refund the difference in cost. As the retailer is within their rights  to carry out an 
attempt to resolve this error, we would deem the proposed resolution fair and 
reasonable and are unable to pursue your claim for a refund. It is on that basis  I have 
closed your claim.
It also said that it had referred  his complaint  about the service issues to the supplier but paid 
him £100 compensation for the length  of time it had taken to respond  to his concerns 
Mr T says that the supplier has had multiple attempts to repair  the conservatory and that the 
conservatory wasnt of satisfactory quality,  fit for purpose or as described and was 
misrepresented to him. But Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  to show  that any 
remedy for the issues about which Mr T complained  has been  agreed between the supplier 
and Mr T. I dont  consider  that the repairs  that have been made by the supplier mean that it 
shouldnt be allowed to return to fix the issues about  which  hes complained  to Barclays 
Partner Finance.  I consider that the suppliers  proposal as set out above and in Barclays  
Partner Finances  final response letter is a fair and reasonable  remedy for the issues that 
Mr T has described  with the conservatory.  
It there continue to be issues with the conservatory after the repairs are made, Mr T will be 
able to complain  to the supplier and then to make another claim to Barclays Partner Finance. 
If hes not satisfied  with its response  he may then be able to make another complaint to this 
service.
Mr T settled the loan agreement by a payment of £17,768.28 in January 2019  at the end of 
the interest free period and I can see that Barclays Partner Finance paid him the £100 
compensation in June  2019. There was clearly  a delay in Barclays  Partner Finances 
response to Mr Ts claim. It has acknowledged that and has paid him £100  compensation. 
Ref: DRN05865923I consider that to be fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded  that a higher award of 
compensation for the service  issues  that Mr T has experienced is justified in these 
circumstances.
Nor am I persuaded  that theres enough  evidence to show that the conservatory  was 
misrepresented by the supplier to Mr T. Mr T has provided reviews from other customers  
about issues with their conservatories. There doesnt seem to be any dispute  that there are 
issues with Mr Ts conservatory  and the supplier has offered to replace the glass  and 
attend to any outstanding  issues. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
I sympathise with Mr T for the anxiety  that hes been caused and the effect of that on his 
medical issues. But I consider that Barclays Partner Finances response to Mr Ts claim has 
been fair and reasonable. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
refund to him the money that he paid for the conservatory  or to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint. If Mr T now wants to accept the suppliers remedy  I suggest that 
he contacts the supplier.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0586592