K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed  to close  his account when it 
said it would, which has led to charges being  applied to the account.
background
Mr W held a Premier  Bank Account with Barclays. The account included  paid-for  Feature 
Store packs, providing a range of insurance  and non-insurance  benefits.
Mr W explains that in January 2016,  when he stopped working,  he contacted Barclays to 
discuss his financial situation. He says that as part of that conversation  Barclays told him it 
would be closing his bank account, as he was no longer eligible to hold it. 
Barclays says it doesnt have a record of telling  Mr W it intended to close  his account.  But 
when Mr W raised  his complaint, in April 2018, Barclays offered a gesture of goodwill  
payment of £153.55  to clear Mr Ws overdrawn balance.  Mr W didnt accept this offer.
I note that Mr W has referred to Payment Protection  Insurance (PPI) on his overdraft 
throughout his complaint. Our adjudicator explained that this matter had been  dealt with 
separately by Barclays, so I wont address that here.
The adjudicator didnt think that Barclays had treated Mr W unfairly, so he didnt  recommend  
that Barclays needed to put anything right. Mr W disagreed, so the case has been passed  to 
me so the matter  can be brought to a close.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Ws complaint a lot of thought,  Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Theres been a fair amount of correspondence between Mr W and our adjudicator, and 
indeed between Mr W and Barclays before the matter was referred to this service.  I should 
start by saying that although Ive reviewed  the history of correspondence that is available, I 
accept that its entirely possible  that its not complete. But as the issue dates back  to the 
start of 2016, thats not surprising or unreasonable.
I note that Mr W believes  that his account shouldve been closed as he says the benefits are 
means-tested  thats to say, theyre only available to customers  based on certain 
circumstances.  
Ref: DRN04628622Its important to clarify at this stage that although  Mr W held a Premier Bank account, this 
wasnt the feature  that he paid for. I accept that the Premier Banking service  was likely 
means-tested, and indeed I accept that Mr W might  not have been eligible for that part any 
longer after he stopped  working. But the account fees Mr W paid covered the Barclays 
Feature Store packs   which are not means-tested  in the same way as the Premier Bank  
account mightve been.
I now turn to the crux of Mr Ws complaint. Thats the fact that Barclays didnt close his 
account in January 2016. So he says that Barclays continued to charge him for the account 
benefits, despite the fact that he was no longer  eligible for them. 
Ive carefully reviewed Mr Ws account  transactions, and our adjudicator provided a copy  of 
these transactions  to Mr W. Its evident from those transactions that Mr W continued to use 
the account  as direct debits were still active  for some time after January 2016.  The 
transactions also show several credits,  some  of which I accept Mr W might not have been 
aware of, but others which appear  to be transfers from one of Mr Ws accounts  held with a 
different bank. I also note that Mr W continued to use his debit card  in the transaction list 
Ive seen, this continued  until as late as October 2017.
Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve transferred money into his Barclays  account if he 
believed it was closed,  nor that hed have believed he could use his debit card. 
Ive also reviewed some of the correspondence  Barclays has sent to Mr W since January 
2016. And I note it sent him a letter about a price  increase in June 2016, two annual 
eligibility statements in February  2017 and January 2018, and a further letter about a price  
increase in November 2017. These  letters make  it clear  that Mr Ws account was still open, 
still had benefits  attached  to it, and was still attracting  a fee.
Ive also seen a note from February  2017 in which Mr W contacted Barclays  through its Live 
Chat facility. That note suggests that Mr W asked why his account hadnt  been changed to a 
basic account. It also looks as though  he was advised how to do this. It also looks  as though 
the advisor offered to log a complaint at that time but Mr W said hed follow  this up at 
another time.
I havent seen  any further contact following this chat until February 2018  although I do 
accept that there may have been  some further  telephone discussions or written 
correspondence before  then. But as Ive already explained, the fact that Mr W continued to 
use his account,  and continued to receive mailings  about the paid-for account,  as well as 
bank statements, satisfies me that he shouldve been aware  that his account  hadnt changed 
in the way he says it shouldve  been, in January 2016.  
The correspondence Barclays  sent, and the continued  usage of the account, further 
persuades me that Mr W wasnt  under the impression that his account had been  closed.
I accept that there has been some sort of a misunderstanding here.  But I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that was a result  of what Barclays told Mr W. I havent seen any 
evidence that Barclays told Mr W  or that he believed   his account  would be closed or had 
been closed And for that reason I also dont  think  the charges  it has applied are unfair, or 
that Barclays should have withdrawn Mr Ws overdraft facility  or closed his account without 
him having completed the steps that he was advised to take  such as by visiting  a branch or 
writing a letter to do so. 
Ref: DRN04628623When Mr W raised his complaint in April 2018  I can see Barclays offered a goodwill gesture 
of £153.55 to clear  the overdrawn balance of his account. As thats more that I would have 
told Barclays to do in this case, I dont require  Barclays  to do anything else and I think it was 
fair of Barclays to offer that.
I want to reassure Mr W that Ive looked  at all the information I have about his complaint. 
And even  though I havent listed every point  individually, Ive thought about everything hes 
said. But having done so I dont think Barclays failed to carry out an instruction which has 
caused Mr W a financial  loss. So I dont  uphold his complaint.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0462862