K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about how Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short)  has dealt with 
her in regard  to her trying to make an international transfer which  was ultimately successful.
background
Mrs D says that NBS has treated her unfairly  as it took too long and too many attempts to 
make a transfer of a significant sum of money  to relatives in Australia. She says it has called  
her honesty  and integrity into question when it was looking into what  happened. She says its 
treated her unfairly and should  do more  in making things right with her considering what  has 
happened.
NBS says its settlement  of £128.66 covers the transaction charge,  currency  charge and a 
gesture of goodwill considering what has happened. So it doesnt feel it needs to do 
anymore.
The adjudicator did not agree with Mrs D. She felt that the settlement from NBS was 
reasonable. As Mrs D remains  unhappy this complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should add here that this decision will not decide on the service that Mrs D has received 
from this service. But from what Ive seen it seems to me that this has been  resolved.
NBS and Mrs D dont  agree to some of the key issues  here.  I can only make  my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what is most  
likely to have happened. Or in other  words,  what happened on the balance  of probabilities. 
I can see from Mrs Ds arguments shes very upset about these matters. And Im sorry to 
hear this. However  for me to uphold this complaint I have to be persuaded that NBS has 
treated Mrs D unfairly in excess  of what the settlement from NBS has already sought to 
address.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons:
I can see that the transaction eventually was successful.  I can see that Mrs D has 
had the currency  conversion and transaction  fee refunded. So Im not persuaded Mrs 
D has lost out financially  due to the unsuccessful transaction.
Mrs D hasnt pointed to specific and significant financial consequences for the 
intended recipients in Australia. And I can see from the transaction  documentation 
from the time it was intended as a gift. And I must emphasise that NBS can only be 
responsible for its own actions and not those  of other entities such as the receiving 
bank in Australia  or any other party. So although  there was delay  between  when Mrs 
D initially tried to make the transaction and when it eventually did take place Im not 
persuaded NBS has been unreasonable or unfair in relation to the consequences of 
any delay.
Ref: DRN02606562The whereabouts of the money  between  the attempted transaction  and when the 
transaction was eventually successful was of concern to Mrs D. However it is clear 
that it was relatively quickly  returned  (less  charge)  to her account.  Mrs D has said 
she didnt know this for some time. However  it is clear that this was evident  on Mrs 
Ds account, which she is obliged to monitor within her relationship with NBS.  So I 
dont think NBS have  acted unfairly  here.
Mrs D has provided consistent testimony  around  what happened in her attempts to 
make the transactions in July 2018.  And NBS position as to what happened is less 
substantial. It also appears to be persuasively  contended by what Mrs D has said.  
And in other areas of this complaint  NBS has made clear that it doesnt know  for 
certain what happened. So my position  is that although I prefer  Mrs Ds comments 
about what happened in branch on the days in question Im not persuaded the 
inconsistencies between the parties  make a difference with regard specifically to the 
success of the transaction. I say this because  it was ultimately successful and in the 
round Mrs D hasnt lost out financially  in terms of the transaction  she wished to 
make.
I now turn to the issue which  clearly upsets Mrs D substantially. Namely  NBS comments in 
its correspondence with her about  what happened and who was at fault. I have concerns 
about how NBS came to make the comments it has for a number of reasons including  Mrs 
Ds strong rebuttal  of it. But I can see it has reviewed these comments, accepted  its failing 
here and allocated some of the settlement in relation to this correspondence. And although  I 
appreciate that Mrs D was extremely upset  by what was said, I think the position taken by 
NBS in the end is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It is also clear  that Mrs D wishes  to know why exactly  the transactions  didnt take place. NBS 
hasnt been able to provide absolute clarity on what has happened.  And it seems unlikely 
well ever fully understand the minutiae of what did indeed happen. But Im not persuaded 
that this is key to this complaint in the round. Although I accept Mrs D wants certainty here.  
Ultimately the transaction was eventually successful  and Im not persuaded that Mrs D has 
lost out financially as a result  of it not going  through in July. And the money was returned  to 
her account  promptly (less  charge)  and once it was returned Im not persuaded that any 
delay from that point onward in making  the transaction was the fault of NBS. It is for account 
holders to monitor their accounts. So all in all Im not persuaded we need to know (or can 
know) what happened  to make a fair decision on this case. I say this because it doesnt 
make a difference to the resulting position  as the money was transferred eventually and 
there hasnt  been  any significant detriment as a result.
I am sorry  to say I dont  think  Mrs Ds comments are sufficiently persuasive for me to uphold 
this complaint considering the evidence  available. Im not persuaded I need to make NBS 
take any further action than that which it already has. So, in short,  this complaint does not 
succeed. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs D. She is at liberty not to accept this 
decision and thus not to be bound  by it. However this decision does bring to an end this 
complaint about  NBS at this service.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building  
Society. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Ref: DRN02606563Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0260656