K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  Assurant  General Insurance Limited declined a claim for his lost phone.
background
Mr L has mobile phone insurance which he took through the phone provider, but is 
underwritten by Assurant.  In October  2018, Mr L lost his phone on the bus. After checking  
with the bus garage  to see if it had been handed  in, he made  a claim for the loss on his 
policy. Mr L uses his phone in his work  as a delivery driver so being without it is extremely  
inconvenient.
To validate the claim Assurant asked Mr L to provide  proof of his identity and address and 
some information about the circumstances of losing his phone. To try and locate the phone  
Mr L called  his number  from his wifes phone (on another network).  His phone  was switched 
off and doesnt have a voicemail facility so the call didnt connect. Mr Ls wife has a pay-as-
you-go contract  and doesnt receive  statements so Mr L cant use those as proof. And his 
phone isnt visible in his cloud account either. So Assurant has put the claim on hold as 
Mr L hasnt provided the required information. 
In its response to his complaint Assurant said it was entitled to ask for information  to validate 
a claim.  Mr L didnt think he should be asked  to do something which isnt made clear in the 
terms and conditions. So he complained to us. Our investigator thought it was reasonable of 
Assurant to ask for information to validate  a claim.  But as she recognised  the limitations of 
what Mr L could provide she made some suggestions of ways  Mr L could  obtain  the 
evidence Assurant had asked for.  Mr  L didnt think this information was necessary to 
support his claim. He also said  he hadnt been told this at the outset and now too much time 
had passed since  the claim the information  might  no longer be available. So its come to me 
to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Let me explain why.
I appreciate being  without  a phone has been  difficult for Mr L. And he wants it replaced as 
soon as possible, as this is the purpose of the insurance policy  hes been paying for. But I 
think its reasonable for Assurant to ask for some evidence to satisfy itself the claim is valid. 
This is quite  usual with insurance claims of any kind.  And this requirement is also reflected 
in the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy. Just after he made  the claim Mr L asked for a 
copy of the terms and conditions, but Im satisfied he would have been given these when he 
first took out the policy.
Step three of the claims process explains that someone making a claim would be talked 
through the process and be told what information  is needed to assess  the claim.  It goes on 
to say You will be asked to complete a claim form, or provide additional information  to 
progress your claim. Failure to do so may result  in your claim being  delayed. It doesnt 
specify the information, presumably as that might vary. But I think its made clear a claim 
wont just be paid without  question, and that some evidence will be required.
Ref: DRN08041962Mr L supports his claim with his testimony of when and how he lost the phone  and the steps 
he took to try to find it. Plus he provided  his driving  licence to confirm his identity and a 
mobile phone bill as proof  of address.  The phone bill doesnt meet Assurants requirements 
as it wanted a utility bill. Mr L says household bills are in his wifes name so he cant  provide 
those. Our investigator thought if the address confirmation was the only sticking  point she 
might have been satisfied as Mr Ls address  is consistent on his driving licence. But he 
hadnt provided enough to substantiate  the claim.
Mr L says the call he made using his wifes  phone wont show  up as his phone was switched 
off and he doesnt have voicemail.  He was unwilling to obtain information from his wifes 
network provider as he thinks her phone  is nothing to do with his claim. And he explains his 
phone doesnt  show on his cloud account because the Find my Phone feature  was turned 
off, as he didnt  know  about it. Assurant is worried that someone using Mr Ls password has 
accessed his account, otherwise the phone would still show  up. 
A pay as you go contract may not include statements,  but my understanding is attempted  
as well as successful calls will usually show up in a phones call history or log. So I think  it 
was reasonable  of our investigator  to suggest Mr L provides a screenshot of his wifes call 
history to show the efforts he made to locate his phone. While it doesnt actually prove the 
claim, at least it supports  Mr Ls version of events. Mr L is unhappy he wasnt asked for this 
at the outset. And as a few months  have now passed the calls may no longer show  up. 
But Assurant  isnt obliged  to suggest to Mr L alternative ways  he might  prove  his claim. In 
the absence of evidence it would normally expect  to see, such  as the phone showing in his 
cloud account, it asked  for different evidence which Mr L hasnt provided. The call log 
information may still not have satisfied Assurant. But its additional information it could use to 
assess the claim. Without more information Mr Ls claim is on hold and its for him to do what  
he can to provide the evidence that Assurant  has asked  for. 
I think its fair for an insurer to ask for evidence  to support a claim. And the evidence Mr Ls 
been asked for is reasonable  and not excessive. So I cant  say Assurant has done 
something wrong by putting the claim on hold.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0804196