K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Cash On Go Limited  (trading  as Peachy) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Mr B was given six loans by Peachy between September 2013  and September 2014.The  
loans were repayable  in instalments of between 1 and 3 months.  Mr B has repaid all of the 
loans although  he fell into difficulty and a repayment plan was arranged  on the final loan.
 
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think that Peachy 
shouldve given loans  4,5 and 6 to Mr B. So he asked Peachy to pay Mr B some 
compensation. Peachy didnt agree with that assessment and said that there was no 
evidence that the loans  were unaffordable.  So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr B accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
B could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN04472842I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
The repayment on Mr Bs first two loans  of £50 was relatively modest  compared  to the 
income that he declared to Peachy. And although the amount he borrowed on the third loan 
had increased  to £200, it was still likely  to have seemed affordable  to Peachy given that it 
was still a small proportion of Mr Bs disposable income and he had repaid the other loans 
on time without apparent  difficulty.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr B provided or the information Peachy 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I dont  think  Peachy  was wrong to give these three  loans to Mr B.
I think that proportionate checking  was carried out for loans 1-3 given the amounts borrowed 
and Mr Bs declared financial position. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Peachys lending history  with Mr B, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  Peachy  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Peachy should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
By loan 4 Mr B had been borrowing continuously and in quick succession from 
Peachy. Mr Bs borrowing was increasing.
When Mr B asked  for loan 4, this was within days  of settling a previous one and was 
for £500. The repayment amount  of £595 was a significant proportion of his declared 
income of £1200.  So Peachy ought  to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr B 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving 
in his finances.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Peachy. And the 
amounts he tended  to borrow didnt decrease substantially.  Although  there were 
some gaps  they were  not significant  and it was because of his borrowing from other  
short term lenders  not because  he was repaying his debt. Mr B eventually was 
unable to sustain  his borrowing and had to enter  into a repayment plan.
Ref: DRN04472843I think that Mr B lost out because Peachy continued  to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans were  likely  to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  loans 4 to 6 and Peachy should  put things right. 
putting things right
I dont think Peachy should  have agreed to lend to Mr B after the third loan. So for loans 4 to 
6 inclusive Peachy  should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr B on these loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Bs credit  file in relation to the refunded 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Bs complaint and direct  Cash  On Go Limited  to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0447284