K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies with two loans.
background
In 1999, Mr and Mrs W took out a four year secured loan for £4,000 at a meeting in a 
Nationwide branch. At the same  time they were sold a regular premium PPI policy to protect 
their loan repayments. The policy cost £8.39 a month and covered Mr W for up to twenty 
four months if he wasnt able to work because of an accident or sickness. It also covered  him 
for up to twelve months if he became unemployed.
In 2001, Mr and Mrs W repaid the first loan by taking  out a further £4,000 unsecured  top-up 
loan. This loan was taken  out over the telephone. And during this call they were  sold a single 
premium PPI to protect the repayments on their new loan. This policy was paid for by a 
single premium of £592.31,  which was added  to the loan and therefore attracted interest. 
The policy covered Mr W for the remaining term of the loan if he was unable  to work 
because of an accident or sickness. And it covered him for up to twelve months  if he became 
unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with 
the adjudicator,  so the case has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
1999 sale
Nationwide has provided a copy of the loan application form which  Mr and Mrs W completed 
and signed for their loan. This form has a section on it dealing with PPI headed 
Protecting  Your Repayments.  I can see that the box to confirm that PPI was wanted has 
been ticked. Theres an equally prominent  box that could have been  ticked if PPI wasnt  
required thats been left blank. Nationwide  has also provided a copy  of the loan agreement 
which Mr and Mrs W signed. And I can see that the PPI is described as optional in this 
document. So from what Ive seen I think  that Mr and Mrs W actively decided  to take out the 
PPI policy, knowing that they had a choice.
I dont think that Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it didnt need to 
ensure that it was suitable for them. But it still needed  to give them enough information about 
the policy so that they could decide  if it met their needs. 
I can see that Nationwide did provide  Mr and Mrs W with the monthly  cost of the policy.  But I 
think its possible that it could have provided  better information than it did about its other key 
terms and conditions. But I dont  think that better information would have changed  their 
minds about taking the policy.  I say this because Mr W appears to have been eligible for the 
policy and not affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations. And although Mr W was 
Ref: DRN05669702eligible for sick pay from his employer, the policy would have paid out in addition  to any other 
means that were available to them and, potentially, for longer than these  would have lasted. 
So I think theyd have  still valued the extra security  that the policy gave them.
This means  that I dont think Mr and Mrs W have  lost out by anything  that Nationwide  may 
have done wrong  when  it sold them this PPI policy.
2001 sale
Nationwide doesnt  still have a recording of the phone  call when this policy  was sold to 
Mr and Mrs W. This isnt that surprising given how long ago the sale took place. But Ive 
seen a copy of the loan agreement that Mr and Mrs W signed. This agreement  shows the 
costs of the PPI separately from the main  loan under a heading titled  Optional Credit 
Insurance. So I think that Mr and Mrs W would  have  been aware that they had a choice 
about whether  or not to take the policy and actively decided to do so.
I dont think that this policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs W. So like the first policy they 
took out, I think Nationwide only needed  to ensure that it gave them  enough information for 
them to decide  if they wanted it.
I can see that the costs  of the policy were given  on the loan agreement.  But I think  its 
possible that Nationwide could have provided better  information than it did about the policies  
other key terms and conditions. But, once again, I dont think better information would have 
been likely  to change  their minds about taking it. 
Mr W appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. And although he was eligible for sick pay from his employer, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any other  means that were available to them  and, 
potentially, for longer  than these would have  lasted. In the case  of an accident or sickness  
claim, it could have paid out for the remaining term of the loan and for an unemployment 
claim for up to twelve months. So I think theyd  have still have thought the policy gave them  
valuable benefits  at an affordable price.
This means  that I dont think Mr and Mrs W have  lost out by anything  that Nationwide  may 
have done wrong  when  it sold them this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about all the points  which  were  made  by Mr and Mrs W in response to 
our adjudicators view.  This includes what theyve said about  the fact that they wouldnt have 
agreed to take out a single premium  PPI policy in 2001 if theyd been given all the 
information required to make a properly informed  decision. But Im satisfied that Nationwide 
did provide Mr and Mrs W with sufficient information about the costs of the single premium  
policy they bought. It wasnt  required to compare  these  costs to those of an equivalent 
regular premium policy, so I dont think its done anything wrong in not doing this. And for the 
reasons Ive already given, I dont think that better information  about  its other  terms and 
conditions would have  made a difference  to their decision. So these comments  havent 
changed my mind about not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN05669703my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0566970