K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2011. Mr T says First Response Finance Ltd (FRF) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr T took out with a hire purchase 
agreement in 2011. The loan was secured against a car Mr T was buying. The loan included 
FRF lending  Mr T an amount for the PPI policy, which had to be paid for up front. Mr T 
applied for the PPI over the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.  Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why.
Mr T has said that he thought he had to take out the PPI and that if he didnt take it out he 
wouldnt get the loan. But I think FRF made  it clear  that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that he chose to take it out  although  I can understand  why he cant remember this.
FRF doesnt have a call recording from when the PPI was sold.  Thats understandable 
given the time that has passed. But it means  I dont know exactly what was discussed. So 
Ive looked at the information we do have, alongside  both parties comments. FRF has 
given us a copy  of the sales script  it says its representative used. This document  also 
records the answers Mr T gave to the questions  asked. And I can see that, after asking 
questions about  Mr Ts circumstances, the script  directs the representative to make it clear  
the cover  is optional and that Mr T was under no obligation to take any of the protection if 
he did not wish to. The script then prompts the representative to ask Mr T if he is happy to 
continue and receive the quotes - the recorded answer detailed is Yes. So I think  its likely 
FRF made it clear that Mr T had a choice about taking the cover  during this call.
Ive noted that Mr T has said he felt pressured into taking out the cover as he was told that if 
he didnt take out the PPI he wouldnt get the loan. Ive seen a copy  of the credit agreement  
which FRF says would have been  sent to him after the call and I can see that this refers to 
the PPI policy as optional  on several occasions. So if Mr T didnt want to take out this 
cover, or was under  the impression that he had to have  it to get the credit, I think he would 
have questioned this with FRF when he saw the PPI listed  as optional on the form.
I have also been  provided with a copy of the Demands and Needs statement that FRF says 
would have been sent to Mr T. This document  refers to the discussion that Mr T had with the 
FRF representative and the recommendations that were made to him. From this document it 
appears that the representative recommended various insurance products to Mr T but he 
didnt take out all of the options available. This suggests that Mr T was aware that he had a 
choice about the different products and chose those  which he wanted.
Ref: DRN05728142So, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think FRF made it clear the policy  was 
optional and that Mr T agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt  want  it.
FRF recommended the PPI to Mr T so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such  as having  unusual 
working arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition of which he was already aware.  
And he seems to have had a need for the cover  Mr T had told us he wasnt  entitled to any 
sick pay from his employer and he didnt have any savings or other  means with which to 
meet his repayments  if he wasnt working. So I think this policy  could have provided him with 
a useful benefit.
I can see from the sales script that the representative was directed to provide a quotation 
detailing the price of the policy.  And so I think that the cost of the cover  would  have been  
made clear to Mr T when he took it out. But its possible that not all of the information FRF 
gave Mr T about the PPI was as clear  as it shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Ive also not seen anything to show  that this wasnt  affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking  out the cover.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr T paid on his PPI  and whether FRF treated him 
unfairly. 
FRF has told us that the commission for Mr Ts PPI was less than half of what  he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how FRF has been working this out and based on what  
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ts commission  was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
FRF treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay Mr T back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0572814