K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mrs C says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold to her with a credit  card,  in 2002. 
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs C has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C says she never knew  she had any PPI and didnt need it. But Im afraid Ive seen 
quite a few things that suggest she probably doesnt  remember  much about  the sale. Given 
it was over 16 years ago, I can sympathise.
However, Mrs C said she thought this was a postal application, but Lloyds  records show  it 
took place in a branch. For these types of sale we know there was usually a meeting where 
the card account  and PPI were discussed.
I was also sent a copy of Mrs Cs credit card application form and under a section which 
says Optional Features I can see Mrs C was given two choices about  the PPI. She could 
either tick a box to have  it  or a box not to have  it. Mrs C ticked  the yes box and so I think  
this is strong  evidence she wanted  the policy and would have known it wasnt something she 
needed to have.
Mrs C signed the form so I think its clear she agreed to the PPI. 
I also note that she was sent monthly  credit card statements and that the PPI was being  
regularly charged  and shown on these. They described it as Cardholder  Protection Plan. 
So as well as choosing  the PPI cover and signing the form, I think  Mrs C would have been 
able to see the policy had been set up on her account. I think if she hadnt asked for it, she 
would have wanted to know what the charges  were  for.
Lloyds concedes it recommended the PPI cover with the credit  card so this means it was 
under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mrs Cs situation. I looked at her age, 
job, health and general circumstances to help me decide  about this. 
I think that Mrs C was eligible for the PPI and I dont think she would have been caught  by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. Over the years she had it, the 
cost was between  £0.59 and £0.79  per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Cs 
card. Ive seen nothing  that suggests she would have  found these monthly  charges 
unaffordable.
Ref: DRN04538592I think any sickness protection Mrs C had with her job would have been quite moderate. 
Nevertheless, Ive thought  carefully about her entire circumstances and any other  means 
she might  have had at that time.  But I havent  seen anything that necessarily means  the PPI 
wasnt suitable for Mrs C. In the event of a successful claim for example, she wouldve been 
able to have her outstanding balance reduced  by 5% each month for up to 12 months. 
These benefits were  accessible  in addition to any other means  she already had in place at 
the time.  
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was suitable for her.
Lloyds also had to give Mrs C clear  information.  After such  a long time I cant confirm  she 
was told everything she shouldve been  told. But as Ive said,  I think  there would have been 
a discussion before Mrs C said she wanted  to go ahead with the policy.  So I think  she 
probably had enough  information on which to make an informed decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0453859