K822xcomplaint
Miss F complains that My Safe Home Limited mis-sold her a mortgage based on incorrect 
affordability figures. Miss F says she made the decision to take out an interest only mortgage  
of around £100,000 based on the advice given by My Safe Home Limited.
Miss F says she fell into financial difficulty after taking out the new mortgage  and this caused 
her considerable distress  and suffering.
background
Miss F met with My Safe Home in 2017.  She hoped  to move to another property and wanted 
to explore ways  to finance this. My Safe Home  gave Miss F specialist mortgage advice as 
she cant work due to her poor health. It recommended she take out an interest only HOLD 
mortgage (home ownership for people with long-term disabilities). 
The cost of the mortgage interest was to be mostly  covered  by Support for Mortgage  Interest  
(SMI) benefits.  A relatively small  payment  of around  £80 was to be made  by Miss F each 
month.  
Following My Safe Homes advice, in December 2017 Miss F took out an interest  only HOLD 
mortgage of around  £100,000 over 35 years. Miss Fs new property  was purchased  on a 
shared ownership  basis, with Miss F purchasing a 66% share  of the full purchase price, at a 
cost of £198,000.  Miss F put a deposit of around  £98,000 of her own money into the 
transaction from the sale of a previous property.
As part of the mortgage advice process,  Miss F met with My Safe Homes  sister company to 
assess her benefit entitlement. This firm calculated the amount  of benefits that Miss F would  
be eligible for in the new property. My Safe Home  says it relied on this benefit assessment to 
work out what mortgage Miss F could  afford. 
Miss F says she queried whether the benefits shed  been told she could get were right. She 
thought the figures looked too high. But Miss F was reassured they were correct. On that 
basis Miss F went ahead  and took out the mortgage.
Miss F says she found out in February  2018 that the benefit  calculation had been wrong, and 
shed receive around £270 less each month than shed been told. This was only weeks  after 
shed sold her previous  property and completed on the purchase of her new home.  
Miss F says she then struggled  to pay her mortgage from her benefit  entitlement and that 
this has caused  her considerable stress and physical suffering.  She complains about the 
service provided by My Safe Home and holds it responsible for the position she finds  herself 
in. 
Miss F complained to My Safe Home in February  2018. It upheld her complaint  and agreed  
that a mistake had been made  with the calculation of her benefit entitlement. My Safe Home 
offered to waive the monthly fee of £46 charged  by its sister company for monitoring her 
benefit payments  and making sure the mortgage  was paid on time. It also offered to refund 
the cost of two months mortgage interest  until April 2018 while her benefit  claim was 
processed.
Ref: DRN04947632Miss F wasnt  happy with the offer and brought her complaint to us. She says shes  been left 
with uncertainty  and financial worries now shes found her disposable  income is less than 
she thought it was. Miss F says she would not have accepted a mortgage alongside a SMI 
(Support for Mortgage Interest) loan if shed understood how that would have worked out at 
the time.
My Safe Home  has raised concerns that we arent  able to look at this complaint.  Its said that 
the mistake about  the calculation of Miss Fs benefit  entitlement was made  by its sister 
company. That firm isnt regulated and so its actions fall outside our services  jurisdiction. 
Our investigator thought we could consider this complaint against My Safe Home Ltd.
On 27 July 2020 I issued a jurisdiction  decision setting  out the reasons why I considered we 
could look at this complaint  about  My Safe Homes provision of mortgage advice. This 
decision now goes on to look at the merits of Miss Fs complaint.
Since my jurisdiction decision My Safe Home has made  us aware that in November 2019 
Miss Fs son moved  out of her property.  It says, as a result  of this change  in Miss Fs 
circumstances from November 2019, her benefits  have  now increased by around £270. This 
is back to the figure that My Safe Home had calculated her income  would be when the 
mortgage advice  was given and the application was made. 
My Safe Homes  also said that it was trying to help Miss F by helping her to get mortgage  
finance. Miss F didnt  want  to stay at her previous  property as it was too far away from family 
and friends, and it wasnt suitable  for Miss F due to her disabilities.
I note that Miss F has a separate complaint about the actions of her mortgage lender.  That is 
being handling under  a different reference and I shall say no more  about that here. 
In this provisional decision Ive focussed  only on the actions of My Safe Home  and the part it 
played in giving Miss F mortgage advice and helping her to apply for the mortgage.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 19 May 2021 setting out why I thought this complaint 
should be upheld,  and what I thought should  happen  now to put things right.  
In summary  I thought  that My Safe Home  hadnt done enough to check  that the mortgage  
was affordable for Miss F and was suitable  for her needs. 
My Safe Home  had admitted that there was a mistake when calculating  Miss Fs benefit 
entitlement, and that it used incorrect figures when it recommended whether the mortgage  
was affordable to Miss F. I also noted  that the error  was rectified  in November 2019 when 
Miss Fs son moved  out of the property and her benefit entitlements  then increased.  
Regrettably it seemed  there was a miscalculation of the level of benefits that Miss F would  
be eligible for. While this mistake may have  come about as a result of an assessment made 
by a third party,  My Safe Home then went on to use these income figures without  any further 
checks to make sure they were correct. 
Unfortunately, My Safe Home relied on incorrect information about  Miss Fs future benefit 
entitlement. This seems to have  come about because Miss Fs son would be living  in the 
property with her in the medium term. Miss Fs benefits certainly increased when her son 
Ref: DRN04947633moved out in November  2019. I was satisfied  that Miss F had made it clear to the broker that 
her son would be living with her throughout the advice and application process.
I also thought  there  was a breakdown in communication between My Safe Home and Miss F 
about how SMI benefit payments would be made, and how the SMI loan would accrue on 
the property. I was concerned that there hadnt  been  sufficient  exploration and consideration 
by the broker  about  protecting Miss Fs deposit when this was something that clearly 
mattered to her. I considered this meant that the recommended  transaction  was not 
something that met Miss Fs financing  objectives  and was not suitable  for her needs. 
I was concerned that My Safe Home didnt do enough to explain the risks to Miss F at the 
end of the mortgage term. The structure  of the recommended mortgage could potentially  
leave Miss F at the end of the mortgage term, in her old age, facing the sale of her adapted 
property to repay the mortgage balance. The lender had said it may decide to extend the 
mortgage term at the end of the mortgage  term, but that it wouldnt guarantee this.
Overall my provisional decision was that this mortgage was an unsuitable recommendation. 
As a result, My Safe Home didnt act fairly  and reasonably when advising Miss F, and I was 
persuaded that it had caused suffering and upset  through its actions.
I thought it was reasonable that My Safe Home refund the application fee (of £2,000) paid by 
Miss F for its mortgage advice and the help it provided in making the mortgage application. I 
also thought My Safe Homes sister company  may choose to refund its fee to Miss F too, but 
that isnt something  that I can direct it to do.
My Safe Home  had already agreed to waive the £46 fee that its sister company applies each 
month to help Miss F with her benefits  and make sure the mortgage is paid each month. 
Miss F had said it hadnt acted upon  this offer. I thought it would be reasonable to direct My 
Safe Home to repay  any such monthly fees applied since the mortgage  was taken out as it 
had offered to do in its final response letter. I also thought it should indemnify Miss F against 
any further charges  of £46 per month that its sister company applies to her, since  the only 
need for those  fees to be charged are for the sister company to monitor  an unsuitable 
mortgage that My Safe Home shouldnt  have recommended.
My provisional view was that My Safe Homes  advice has caused Miss F significant  distress 
and suffering. I thought it would be appropriate for My Safe Home  to pay compensation of 
£2,000 for the significant upset and suffering its actions  caused to Miss F.
  
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss F replied to my provisional decision. In summary, Miss F said:
-she was directed to My Safe Home  by a housing association  rather  than My Safe 
Home tried to help her;
-she has since found out that she never did meet the criteria for the interest only 
mortgage on the HOLD scheme  and she thinks My Safe Home were  already aware  
of this. Miss F only found out about this from the housing  association once shed 
moved into the property;
-she wishes that My Safe Home  had never asked to meet with her in the first place for 
a HOLD mortgage and then this situation  could have been avoided;
-she wasnt well enough to pursue the SMI loan in the summer of 2018. It was only 
much later in 2020 that she made a clear decision that she didnt trust the scheme 
and she continued  to pay the mortgage herself;
Ref: DRN04947634-shes had significant problems with her property  but she doesnt  feel able to move  
imminently or in the near future as shes struggling with knowing what to do next and 
what options are available to her.
My Safe Home  responded to say, in summary:
-HOLD was the only viable option open  to Miss F to purchase her new property, and 
that it is the only broker that currently  arranges such mortgages;
-It made the SMI loan situation very clear  and Miss F signed to say she 
acknowledged this;
-It believes the mortgage was affordable throughout and thats how Miss F managed  
to maintain payments even without the SMI loan;
-Miss F has chosen to stay in her property  which also supports the fact the mortgage 
was and still is affordable;
-Miss F wasnt  worse off due to My Safe Homes advice and presumably Miss Fs son 
would have contributed to the monthly bills while he was living  with her;
-Knowing that Miss F queried the benefits quoted from the outset means her 
complaint shouldnt succeed;
-If Miss Fs lender  had refused to extend  the term when the mortgage expired, My 
Safe Home would have helped  Miss F to find another mortgage lender;
-My Safe Home  has now amended its process so such a miscalculation  of an 
applicants income cannot happen again.
My Safe Home  has said that it doesnt consider this complaint  should  be upheld.  However,  it 
is willing to agree to the payment of £2,000 in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience  
caused to Miss F. It will also refund any payments of the £46 monthly fee applied by its sister  
company in the past, and waive this fee going  forward for the period Miss F chooses to live 
in the property. 
However, My Safe Home doesnt think the advice/application fee should  be refunded 
because Miss F did get a mortgage following the application  and has moved to a property 
that met her needs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and further arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate the dilemma that Miss F finds herself  in, and Im sorry to hear that shes  had 
further problems  with her property and her health.  However, I must  carefully  consider what  
My Safe Home  can reasonably be held responsible for and what  issues have come about  
due to its actions  or mistakes. It wouldnt be fair to expect My Safe Home  to compensate for 
problems which havent come about  as a direct result of its actions.
There was undoubtedly  a mistake here, and My Safe Home didnt identify that Miss F wasnt  
eligible for all the benefits it used in the affordability  calculation for the mortgage. Even when 
Miss F queried  whether this was right, she was reassured that by the broker that there was 
no error. As a result of My Safe Homes advice,  and application made to the lender, Miss F 
ended up with a mortgage that she says was unaffordable for a time.
I also consider that My Safe Home  should  have made it clearer  to Miss F about the risks to 
her deposit  if she entered into the mortgage alongside an SMI loan. Miss F told My Safe 
Home she wanted to protect her deposit of £98,000. If she had taken out the SMI loan,  
Ref: DRN04947635which was the intended way the mortgage would  be financed, this would have eroded her 
equity in the property each month as the SMI loan built up. This wasnt  just a risk of the 
mortgage- this was the reality of the transaction. I think more could have been done  to make 
this very clear to Miss F.
In light of the above, I consider My Safe Homes  advice was flawed. My Safe Home advised 
Miss F to enter into the mortgage based  on an affordability assessment which  was incorrect  
and that overstated Miss Fs income.  Miss F only found out about this error after shed 
bought the property and moved in. Im glad to hear the additional benefit entitlement  was 
realised in November  2019 when Miss Fs son moved out, but for nearly two years Miss F 
struggled to make ends  meet. The consequences of the mistakes  made  by My Safe Home  
were considerable for Miss F and Im persuaded this caused stress,  anxiety  and physical 
suffering to a vulnerable person.
Im pleased to hear that My Safe Home have  now made changes that should prevent such  a 
mistake happening again to other customers.  But this doesnt help Miss F.
And so, I remain of the view that its appropriate  for My Safe Home to refund its advice and 
application fee, in addition  to the payment for trouble  and upset and other redress  I had set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against My Safe Home  Limited  should  succeed. 
To settle  the matter, I direct My Safe Home  Limited to:
-return to Miss F the £2,000 advice and application fee, adding  simple annual interest 
of 8% from the date Miss F paid it to date of refund;
-return any monthly charges its sister company has charged Miss F (as offered in its 
final response), again adding simple annual  interest of 8% from the date each fee 
was paid to date of refund;
-indemnify Miss F for any further monthly charges its sister company applies to 
Miss F;
-pay £2,000  for the trouble and upset caused to Miss F by its actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2021.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0494763