K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs F took out in 1999.  Its 
been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer,  should take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in October  2019   a copy  of 
which is attached  at the end of this decision  I explained that Im thinking of coming to a 
different outcome to our adjudicator and I explained why. But I asked for any further  
evidence or comments before I issued my final decision.
Both parties  confirmed theyd received  the provisional decision,  but no one had anything 
more to add. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Fs case.  
As no one had anything new for me to consider, my decision remains the same, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Copy Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs F says Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ref: DRN04788682This complaint is about  a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs F took out in 1999. Its been agreed 
in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case. 
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mrs Fs complaint. 
The policy was sold during  an interaction  in a store.  FICL should have made  sure Mrs F was aware 
the policy  was optional. Its not possible for me to know exactly what  was said at the time this policy 
was taken  out. So, I have  based my decision on the evidence thats available alongside what  Mrs F 
has told us. Looking at a copy of Mrs Fs application form Ive been given, I can see it asks applicants  
to tick a box for the PPI if they want it. 
On the form, the section  has been ticked and Mrs F has signed the overall agreement. Mrs F would 
have the opportunity  to review and query anything on the application she wasnt sure about before 
she signed it. So, I think its most likely FICL made Mrs F aware she had a choice about buying the 
policy and she chose to take it  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. 
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have 
to make sure Mrs F got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  Mrs 
F says she had a medical condition at the time of sale and our adjudicator thought this condition was 
something that wouldve made it difficult for Mrs F to make a claim on the policy, so they upheld her 
complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about  the information Mrs F has told us about  her condition.  Having done this, I 
dont have enough evidence that Mrs F would  have  thought  this would be the main  reasons  she might 
have needed to claim  on the policy in the future.  And the policy wouldve covered  her for other things. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the other exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs F says cant remember  if she had sick pay benefits from her employer. The PPI wouldve paid out 
alongside her employee benefits. It also wouldve  covered her if she became unemployed. Mrs F says 
she had some  savings but having the PPI wouldve meant these savings could have been used for 
other things . So, I think the PP would  have  been  useful  for her if something went wrong.  
Overall, I dont think Mrs F has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong. 
Ref: DRN0478868