K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that advice he received from Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) to invest 
£10,000 in the Cautious Managed fund of an investment bond was unsuitable for him. It 
carried a greater degree of risk than he ought to have taken for an investor  with no previous 
experience of risk-based products.
Hes represented by a claims  management  company (CMC),  which  says:
some of the documentation completed  by the adviser at the point of sale is inaccurate.  
For example, Mr D was not self-employed  - he had retired early, having  been out-of-
work - and he had no previous investment experience as the shares  he held had been 
passed down  to him by his father. And, yet, Mr D was adjudged  to have a cautious 
managed attitude to risk;
the Cautious Managed fund was misclassified in any event as it held up to 60 per cent 
of its assets in equities and could also include derivatives.  The fund factsheet gives it as 
a balanced risk-rated fund;
that Mr D received  advice from another business  to invest  £4,000 in an ISA at the same  time 
doesnt  mean  the adviser could assume  Mr D came to him as an experienced investor;
Halifaxs  risk attitude category of cautious  managed is its lowest  risk rating.  If an 
investor is deemed to have a cautious attitude  to risk, he or she is risk-averse.  The 
Cautious Managed  fund is not a cautious  risk-rated fund.    
background
Mr D surrendered the bond in January 2011 for £11,601 which  gave him a net return  of 
around three  per cent per annum after five years.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who didnt  think it should be 
upheld. Briefly, she said that:
the extent of Mr Ds previous investment experience isnt clear. His CMC suggests  
that he had no previous  investment  experience, in contrast  to details recorded by 
the adviser at the point of sale that Mr D had invested previously and held shares 
for some  time.  This justified  the adviser  concluding that Mr D was prepared to 
adopt a cautious  managed approach to investing;
there is no evidence from the point  of sale to indicate that Mr D made  the adviser 
aware his shareholding  had been inherited from his father;
Mr D wanted to invest some of his savings in a product that offered greater growth 
potential than a deposit account  would provide;
while he was recommended  to invest £4,000 in a mini equity ISA and £6,000  in an 
investment bond, Mr D decided to invest £4,000  in an ISA with another  manager and 
£10,000 in the Cautious Managed fund of the bond;
on balance, the advice Mr D received was suitable given his known  circumstances and 
objective at the time. He was advised to invest around  20% per cent of his readily  
available capital,  leaving sufficient  on deposit  for emergencies and his planned 
property purchase abroad. The advice to invest in an ISA enabled him to invest in a 
tax-efficient manner;
while the CMC has said that Halifaxs risk category of cautious managed is really 
cautious, the make-up of the Cautious Managed fund is more akin to a medium risk 
investment. But this fund invested  in UK corporate bonds, equities, and fixed interest, 
which gave it a more  cautious  risk profile.
Ref: DRN07394172In response, Mr Ds CMC disagreed with the investigators assessment. It said that the 
choice of fund presented  a greater risk to Mr Ds savings than he should have been  asked  to 
consider. He had no previous investment experience and had made the adviser aware  that 
his shareholding had been  inherited from his father.      
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr Ds CMC has claimed that Mr Ds personal  and financial  circumstances  
have not been accurately recorded. But, while I dont disbelieve what the CMC is saying, as 
it hasnt provided any evidence to support its claim, I must give more  weight to the 
information recorded by the adviser  at the point of sale. 
This confirms that, in December 2005, Mr D was in his early 50s, with self-employed 
earnings of £15,600 per annum giving  him a net monthly income  of around £1,000. This 
covered his outgoings of £950 per month. 
Mr D also held £50,600 on deposit  which paid him interest of almost  £140 per month he 
didnt need as income. He proposed to retire at age 60 in around eight years  time.
Otherwise, he owned shares valued  at approximately  £10,000 Ive accepted had been 
bequeathed to him by his father.
It seems  Mr D wished  to reserve  £25,000  of his savings to purchase  a property abroad and 
to keep £6,000 back for emergencies. This left him £19,600  available on deposit  which,  at 
the time,  would have  been paying him interest of around £53 per month. This was 
disposable income - Mr D wasnt relying on it to cover his outgoings.
So, I think it was reasonable for him to have been  advised to expose around half of these 
savings to a cautious managed degree  of risk for the potential of a return  that could exceed 
interest of approximately £27 per month  he was currently receiving from this sum on deposit. 
Mr D hadnt used his ISA allowance for tax year 2005/2006 and the adviser recommended  
him to invest  £4,000  in the Cautious Managed fund of an equity ISA and £6,000  in the same  
fund of an investment  bond. This left him savings  of £9,600 still on deposit.
As it was, Mr D decided to invest £4,000 in an equity ISA with another  manager. But he still 
wished to invest £10,000 (or now 64 per cent of his available capital) in the bond with 
Halifax. And this left him £5,600 for unforeseen contingencies which,  together with the 
£6,000 he had already  reserved for emergencies, meant £11,600 (or 45 per cent)  of his 
available capital of £25,600 remained on deposit.
I accept that Mr D hadnt invested in risk-based products before and could have been 
advised to consider placing £10,000  in a fixed term deposit account that paid a preferential  
rate of interest.
Ref: DRN07394173But, as he wasnt relying on interest from these  savings  to meet his outgoings, I think  he 
could afford  to accept  some degree  of risk to obtain a potentially higher level of return. So, 
Im not concerned  at the amount of capital he was advised to put at risk for the prospect of 
greater growth.
The main  issue raised by Mr Ds CMC is whether the Cautious Managed  fund presented an 
appropriate degree of risk for a consumer with no previous investment experience.  It points 
out that Halifaxs lowest risk category of cautious actually signifies no risk, and that an 
investor showing a cautious  managed attitude  to risk was, in fact, regarded as having  a 
cautious approach  to investment. Yet, this fits the degree of risk Mr D was willing to take 
with some of his savings  because  it seems to me that, in order  to achieve the return he was 
looking for, he needed to expose this money to some risk. Mr D couldnt  be categorised by 
Halifax as having  a cautious attitude to risk if, as his CMC says, that meant  he didnt want 
to take any risk at all. If so, he ought  to have been advised to leave his money  on deposit 
and I dont believe Mr D wanted  to do that. 
The only issue is whether  or not the make-up  of the Cautious  Managed fund constitutes a 
cautious investment.
From the literature Mr D would have been provided  in 2005, this fund invested  49 per cent of 
its assets in UK equities, 41.5 per cent in UK corporate bonds  and 9.5 per cent in UK fixed 
interest. Most  of the equity content of the fund comprised investment in established blue 
chip companies, which lessened its exposure to risk. And, as all assets of the fund were UK-
based, there was no foreign currency risk either.
All things  considered, given the amount Mr D was willing to invest, his objective  of looking to 
achieve a return  greater than the interest  he was receiving on deposit and the make-up  of 
the recommended fund,  I dont think the advice  Mr D received exposed his savings to more 
risk than he ought to have  been willing to accept. 
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.  
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0739417