K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained about Standard Life Assurance Limited (SLAL). She is unhappy  
about the decisions it made when it distributed benefits from her late brothers pension plan.
background
The parties will be familiar  with the background to this complaint and so I intend to only 
summarise the central issues  here.
Mrs G is the executor of the estate of her late brother. Ill refer to him as Mr A and to his wife 
as Mrs A. Mr A died in 2017.
Mrs G was also named as a beneficiary  in his will and as a beneficiary in an expression of 
wishes he had completed in relation to the pension benefits he held.
Mr A had completed this expression of wishes in 2015. This provided for equal division of the 
benefits payable  on his death between  Mrs A, Mrs G and two other family members.
Mr A had made a will in 2015 which named  Mrs A as the residual beneficiary. There  was a 
substantial estate.
Mr A was separated from Mrs A at the time of his death and had been for some years. They  
didnt have children. But they retained  a degree of financial interdependence.  They  held a 
joint bank account  into which  each of them made regular payments. This account  was used 
to pay the mortgages on their (separate)  homes  and for other  expenses  including  life 
assurance. Mr A and Mrs A lived in two properties  which were jointly owned although the 
property Mr A occupied was held as tenants-in-common  and not joint tenants since  2015.
SLAL was responsible for distributing  the benefits  Mr A held with it. This amounted  to just 
over £130,000. After  gathering evidence it decided to distribute the benefits  with 70 per cent 
to Mrs A and 10 per cent each to the other  three beneficiaries including  Mrs G.
It is that decision that Mrs G complains about. Essentially, Mrs G says that SLAL hasnt 
exercised its discretion  correctly. She says that it didnt attach appropriate weight to the 
expression of wishes  he had made and was wrong to conclude that Mrs A was financially 
dependent upon Mr A.
SLAL didnt uphold  the complaint and so it was referred to this service. It has explained that 
it wasnt bound by the expression  of wishes and the benefits were payable  at its discretion.
An investigator considered the complaint but she didnt think that it should be upheld.
Mrs G didnt agree and so the case has been referred to me for a decision.
I made  a provisional decision  and said that I intended to uphold the complaint. I explained 
that Id reached  a different  conclusion  to the investigator and that I was minded  to uphold 
this complaint and direct  that SLAL undertake a fresh consideration of the distribution of 
these benefits.
I gave my reasons and said;
Ref: DRN06563022Its not my role to decide if Standard Life has made  the correct decision and if not, to 
replace its decision  with my own. It wasnt obliged to follow the expression  of wishes.  It has 
discretion to decide to whom the benefits  are paid and in what proportion.  I need to decide  if 
Standard Life has exercised its discretion  properly,  applied due diligence  and acted 
reasonably in reaching its decision.
Standard Lifes  decision was recorded on 4 January  2018. I think that decision document is 
fundamental to the issue I must  determine and my current view is that it is flawed in a 
number of respects. Ill consider them in turn:
the expression of wishes
Mr A had completed an expression  of wishes in 2015. It provided for equal division of his 
pension benefits  between four beneficiaries. This expression of wishes was addressed to his 
employers and appears to have related directly  to his occupational  pension scheme benefits. 
It did not specifically  identify these benefits that he held with Standard  Life but I dont  think 
there is any real doubt that it was intended  to relate  to all the death benefits  he held as a 
result of his employment.
Initially, Standard  Life said that this expression  of wishes  wasnt  valid in relation to these 
benefits. It repeated  this position more than once. It said its view on this was firm.
In its decision,  which  is a pro-forma, the question  is asked whether there is a valid 
expression of wishes. The answer  recorded  is no. 
In its final response to this complaint, Standard Life accepted that the initial decision not to 
treat the expression of wishes  as valid was not a reasonable  position to take  but insisted 
that it had been taken  into account  in its decision.
I do note that the decision  does go on to refer to the expression of wishes  and says that it 
has been taken  into account. But based on the record of the decision itself,  the decision 
maker appears to have  been treating the expression of wish as not being valid. I think there 
must be a high likelihood that the weight the decision  maker attached to that document was 
influenced by the (incorrect) view they held that it was in some  way not fully valid.
Given the record that there was no valid expression of wishes, I think there has to be some  
question about  whether  sufficient weight was attached to the expression of wishes which  
was always valid. It was later accepted to be valid.
This view also seems  to be evidenced by the fact that the decision didnt refer to the 
beneficiaries as nominees under  the expression  of wishes, and by the fact there was no 
reasoning in the decision as to why the expression of wishes  had not been  followed when 
the distribution was set out.
The financial  dependency  of Mrs A
Mrs A was asked to provide documentation to support her claim of financial dependency.  
Some documentation was provided  and Standard Life quickly confirmed that it was satisfied 
this evidenced  her financial dependency. 
Its not clear to me how the limited  evidence provided at that point was sufficient to 
demonstrate financial dependence (as opposed  to a degree of mutual  dependency) without 
Ref: DRN06563023some further  investigation in these particular circumstances. Mr A and Mrs A were  separated  
and had been for some years. 
The decision  itself records that Mr A and Mrs As finances were very much shared and that 
Mrs A had provided evidence to establish that. But as Ive said,  the evidence  she had 
provided seems quite limited. For example, she wasnt asked for any evidence  of her 
income.
Im not satisfied that Mrs As financial dependency, or the extent of it, was fully explored  
before the distribution was determined. And given the particular circumstances in this case,  I 
think it would  have  been reasonable to expect a more  thorough  consideration with more  
extensive evidence  and more detailed explanation.
The distribution   
The benefits  payable  were distributed 70/10/10/10 to the four beneficiaries nominated  in the 
expression of wishes. The decision itself does not record any reasoning  at all for this 
distribution despite the fact the decision is pre-populated with a request  that full reasons for 
proportions of split be given.
After this complaint  was made, Standard Life has suggested that, but for the expression of 
wishes, the distribution would have been  100 per cent to Mrs A, as she was financially 
dependent and no-one else was. That may be a true reflection of its thinking, but that is not 
what the decision itself says. There is no reasoning whatsoever and so its not clear to me 
how I can safely conclude that proper consideration was given to the issue.  And as I have 
said earlier, this section  of the decision made no reference to the expression of wishes  and 
didnt explain to what extent it had, or hadnt, been  taken into account.
Conclusion 
For the reasons  given  above, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and direct  that 
Standard Life carry out a fresh consideration of the distribution of these benefits. 
Mrs G responded to the provisional decision with further comments, but essentially accepted  
the conclusion.
SLAL responded  and explained why it didnt agree. It said,  in summary;
The Record of Decision (ROD), recorded  on 4 January  2018,  was reviewed 
independently and in full between April and June  2018. This was to include additional 
information supplied.  The review of June 2018 therefore encompassed evidence  
supplied subsequent to the original record of decision.
Although the ROD, an internal pro-forma, shows No to the question  of whether a 
valid expression of wishes  (EOW)  was available. In fact, the ROD goes  further, and 
qualifies this answer with the following  comment: We have received a copy  of an 
Expression of Wish form .., although  this does not refer to the Standard  Life 
pension we have  used this as guidance as to whom the deceased wanted the 
beneficiaries to be. This demonstrates  that, regardless of any previous opinions 
expressed on the validity of the EOW, the written  preference  concerning  his pension 
funds had been considered prior to 4 January 2018 in the process of exercising 
discretion over the distribution of benefits.
Ref: DRN06563024The assumption that doubts raised  over validity of the EOW means there is a high 
likelihood that this had influenced the final decision unreasonably  is unfair  as the 
ROD makes clear  that the EOW had been factored into the decision-making  process.
Any written expression of a pension members  wishes, submitted in whatever format, 
can be used as evidence  when  weighing a decision,  alongside  all other  information  
obtained concerning the deceaseds personal circumstances at the time of their 
death.
The Provisional Decision notes that there  was no reasoning  in the ROD for not 
following the EOW. Although it would have  been  preferable that fuller rationale had 
been included  in the ROD. It is evident from the system comments  and emails  that a 
significant level of internal  discussion  took place in the assessment of the distribution 
of benefit. This is indicative of the unusual nature  of the case  circumstances and the 
gravity of the task being undertaken. More of the output from these discussions 
should have been  documented in the ROD to demonstrate the rationale employed.  
However, this is not in itself evidence that the EOW had been given insufficient  
weight in the considerations.
Mrs A was acknowledged by all parties  as the legal spouse of the deceased and so 
she was automatically  classed as a dependant under  the HMRC definition. Mrs A 
was recorded  as a dependant on the interim  ROD completed on 11/07/2017.
SLAL became aware in August 2017  that Mr A and Mrs A were separated at the time 
of his death. This did not alter Mrs As classification as a dependant  since the 
marriage had not been dissolved. However,  SLAL did obtain evidence  of financial 
relationship including evidence of two mortgages  which  were jointly held, outstanding 
loan amounts and joint bank statements for the 3 months  immediately prior to the 
deceased members  death.
The Provisional Decision raises doubts about  the sufficiency of the information 
received to reach a conclusion of this kind, the short  time taken to consider the 
evidence and the definition of financial dependency as opposed  to mutual  
dependency. SLAL agreed  that the description  of dependency  could have been more 
clearly defined and the evidence contained  in the bank  statements is more 
suggestive of mutual dependency, rather than financial dependency.  However, SLAL 
said this was more  a matter of terminology, rather than of any lack of diligence. 
SLAL said it agreed  that there has been a failure in record  keeping on the internal  
pro-forma document used to record the discretionary  distribution of benefits. It 
accepted that it would certainly have been preferable  that the rationale for the 
proportionate split was documented.
But this was expanded on in correspondence  in March and June 2018. The latter 
correspondence was triggered by a request  that the matter  should be escalated  to a 
senior level and the entire discretionary process  be completed afresh. SLAL 
consented to this request. The exercise was carried out between  April and June 
2018, during which  all existing evidence was reviewed  and additional information  was 
obtained. The outcome of this review was that the distribution of benefits had been 
based on relevant  factors  and that reasonable weight had been given to the 
respective pieces of evidence.  The independent review found  no cause to believe 
that the decision was unreasonably slanted  in its balance. The new evidence  
supplied supported the discretionary outcome reached,  rather than contradicting  it. 
This outcome  was communicated on 14 June 2018.
The Provisional Decision brings no new evidence on which to base an alternative  
distribution of benefits. In the absence of fresh  evidence, we consider that our 
discretionary process has been  exhausted.  Given the scope  of the reviews 
undertaken in April-June 2018  and December 2019,  we do not consider that there is 
value in undertaking a fresh consideration.
Ref: DRN06563025my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive set out a summary of what  SLAL has 
said in response.  Although this is only a summary,  Ive considered  everything  that it said.
Im grateful  to Mrs G for her comments. I have not summarised them in detail as they largely 
reiterate her position. But I have considered and taken into account all that she has said.
Having reconsidered  the evidence, Ive not changed  my provisional conclusions and I 
confirm them  here. I uphold this complaint. 
The expression of wishes
The expression of wishes is at the very heart of this complaint.  I fully accept, and I think my 
provisional decision makes it clear, that the expression of wishes was considered in the 
ROD. I said that after describing it as not valid, the ROD does go on to refer to the 
expression of wishes  and says that it has been taken into account.  
But significantly, what I went on to say was that based on the record of the decision itself,  
the decision maker  appears to have been treating the expression of wish as not being valid.  
And on that basis, I think there must  be a high likelihood that the weight the decision maker  
attached to that document was influenced  by the (incorrect) view they held that it was in 
some way not fully valid.
There is no dispute now that the expression  of wish was valid.
Ive considered what SLAL has said and note that it considers my conclusion to be unfair but 
I dont agree. Im satisfied  that there has to be some question about whether  sufficient  
weight was attached to the expression of wishes given the description of its status.
It seems  to me that if there  are two pieces of evidence,  one of which  is valid and the other  
is not valid, a decision maker is always likely  to attach greater weight to the valid  evidence.  
The description not valid would imply that piece of evidence is in some  way inferior  or 
second rate.
The financial  dependency  of Mrs A
I said in my provisional decision that it wasnt clear to me how the limited  evidence provided 
at the time of the ROD was sufficient  to demonstrate financial dependency (as opposed to a 
degree of mutual  dependency) without some  further  investigation in these  particular 
circumstances. Mr A and Mrs A were  separated  and had been for some years.  
SLAL says that Mrs A was acknowledged  by all parties as the legal spouse and so was 
automatically classed  as a dependant under the HMRC definition and it did obtain evidence  
of financial relationship. It agrees that the description of dependency could have been more  
clearly defined and the evidence it had was more suggestive of mutual dependency, rather  
than financial dependency. It says this was more a matter of terminology, rather  than of any 
lack of diligence.  
Ref: DRN06563026I remain of the view that Mrs As financial dependency (or the mutual dependency), or the 
extent of it, could have been  explored  further before  the distribution was determined. 
Although, this single  factor in isolation, may not be sufficient to invalidate the decision made.
The distribution
SLAL accepts that it would have been  preferable if a fuller  rationale had been included in the 
ROD. But it says that it is evident from the internal system comments  and emails  that a 
significant level of internal  discussion  took place in the assessment. And it says that the lack 
of rationale is not in itself evidence that the expression of wishes had been given insufficient 
weight in the considerations. It accepts that there  has been a failure in record  keeping on the 
ROD and that it would certainly have been  preferable that the rationale for the proportionate  
split was documented. It goes on to say that this was expanded on in correspondence  in 
March and June  2018 when the entire  discretionary process was completed afresh. 
I note that SLAL accepts  the deficiencies in the record of its reasoning. I think this is a 
fundamental flaw in its decision making  process. I agree that the lack of reasons  is not in 
itself evidence that insufficient weight  was attached to the expression of wishes. But the 
onus is on it to demonstrate that it exercised its discretion appropriately and that it did attach 
appropriate weight  to the evidence. Its own pro-forma document asked for detailed reasons 
but none were  given.  Im sure there were reasons, but these clearly ought  to have been 
recorded and they were  not. 
I note SLALs reference to the reviews it says were  undertaken in March  and June 2018. Its 
true that there was a final response to Mrs Gs complaint in March 2018.  This response 
rejected the complaint.
There was then an internal reference  for a review. But SLAL described this as a review  of 
the complaint  response in its email of 2 April 2018. Not a fresh  consideration of the 
distribution decision.
And then the person with the task of reviewing wrote on 12 April to say he was reviewing the 
complaint. I do fully appreciate that the review of the complaint  that was then communicated 
included a review  of the distribution itself. But I dont  think this can truly be said to be a fresh 
consideration of the distribution  decision.  It was primarily a review  of the complaint, a 
complaint that had been rejected.
In conclusion, SLAL  has accepted that there were flaws in the recording of its original 
decision. Im satisfied that the flaws it accepts  were present were fundamental flaws.  I dont 
agree that these  flaws were corrected by reviews in March and June 2018. The 
considerations in March  and June 2018 were  made  in connection with the complaint that had 
been raised. There was no truly independent and fresh consideration of the distribution 
decision at that time in my view.
Ref: DRN06563027my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct that Standard Life Assurance Limited carry out a fresh 
consideration of the distribution  of these benefits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0656302