K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a conditional  sale agreement with Santander 
Consumer Finance that he signed  in August 2018. The car broke down in October 2018 and 
Mr S paid £1,387.21  for the clutch to be replaced.  Four days  later the car broke down again 
with a suspected head gasket failure. 
Mr S complained to Santander Consumer Finance and said that he wanted to be reimbursed 
for the cost of the clutch  replacement and for the car to be replaced or repaired or for him to 
be refunded for the money  that hed paid for it. It said that neither it nor the dealer had 
authorised the clutch repairs  and the clutch would usually be considered  to be a wear and 
tear item so it was unable to assist him. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale so Mr S should be able to reject it. She 
recommended that Santander Consumer Finance should: end the agreement; collect the 
car; remove the agreement from his credit file; refund £1,387.21 for the cost of the clutch, all 
payments made under the agreement from November 2018 and the deposit of £500  (all with 
interest); and pay him £200 compensation for the inconvenience, delays and stress caused.
Santander Consumer  Finance has asked  for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. It says,  in summary,  that:
the evidence  only refers to a suspected faulty head gasket;
the clutch was repaired at a third party  garage  and it cant confirm that those repairs 
have not contributed to the suspected fault with the head gasket;
theres no independent evidence to show why the clutch needed replacing;
the car needs  to have an independent  inspection to determine  what the current  fault 
is;
it tried to arrange inspections but feels that Mr S is creating barriers  when  its trying  to 
assist; and 
its agreed to compensate Mr S for the time it has taken  to deal with his complaint  but 
further delays  have been caused by him and it should not be penalised for them.
Mr S doesnt  agree  that hes caused  any delay in the car being  inspected,  hes responded in 
detail to Santander Consumer Finances comments and says that the investigators 
recommendations should be upheld.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander Consumer  Finance, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Mr S. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  
Ref: DRN09772562quality at that time will depend on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was about  ten years  
old, had been  driven for approximately 96,300 miles and had a price of £3,500. Satisfactory 
quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car must  be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
The car broke down  in October 2018   about  two months after it had been supplied to Mr S. 
The breakdown report refers to a clutch failure and records  the cars mileage as being 
98,920  so Mr S had driven about 2,600  miles in the car before the clutch failed. The clutch 
was replaced by a garage and Mr S paid the garage £1,387.21. 
Four days later the car broke down  again. The breakdown report  refers to a suspected  head  
gasket failure and records the cars  mileage as being 99,000  so only 80 miles more than 
when the clutch  failed.
Mr S and Santander Consumer Finance have agreed for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert   but the inspection hasnt taken place. Each of them blames the other 
for that. But I consider that theres enough  evidence for me to be able to make a decision on 
this complaint without  an independent inspection of the car.
The car broke down  about two months  after it was supplied to Mr S  and in that time hed 
driven about 2,600 miles in it. The cars  clutch had failed  and Mr S paid £1,387.21 for a 
replacement clutch.  The car broke down again four days later after Mr S had driven a further 
80 miles in it. The breakdown report  from a nationally  recognised  breakdown service  
refers to a suspected head gasket failure  and Mr S hasnt used the car since then.
I consider it be more likely  than not that there is a significant fault with the cars engine  in 
addition to the clutch that failed. I dont consider that its reasonable to expect that a cars 
clutch would  fail and for there to be a significant engine fault only about two months after the 
car was supplied to Mr S and after hed driven it for less than 2,700 miles. So I consider it to 
be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
For that reason  I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mr S to be allowed to reject the 
car.
I find that Santander Consumer Finance should  end the agreement and arrange for the car 
to be collected  from Mr S. The invoice for the car shows that Mr S paid a £500 deposit for it. 
Mr S was able to use the car for about  two months  before  the clutch  failed and I consider  
that its fair and reasonable for him to pay for the use that he had from the car. So I find that 
Santander Consumer  Finance should refund to him the deposit  that he paid for the car and 
all but the first two of the monthly  payments that hes made under the agreement  (all with 
interest).
Mr S paid £1,387.21  for the cars clutch to be replaced. I also find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to reimburse him for that (with interest). These 
events have clearly caused  distress  and inconvenience to Mr S. I find that it would also be 
fair and reasonable for Santander Consumer Finance to pay him £200 to compensate  him 
for that distress and inconvenience   and that it should remove  the agreement from his 
credit file.
my final decision
Ref: DRN09772563For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I order  Santander 
Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Santander  Consumer  Finance, to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from Mr S 
 both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr S the deposit of £500 that he paid for the car.
3.Refund to Mr S all but the first two of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement.
4.Pay £1,387.21  to Mr S to reimburse him for the cost of the replacement  clutch.
5.Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
6.Pay £200 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
7.Remove the conditional  sale agreement  from Mr Ss credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Santander  Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment  referred to at 5 above. Santander  Consumer  Finance  must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted  if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0977256