K820x#14complaint
Mrs H brings this complaint as Administrator of the estate of her late husband, Mr H. He died 
in April 2001 without  leaving  a will. Mrs H obtained  a Grant  of Letters  of Administration of his 
estate. Under the laws of intestacy, Mrs H is also the sole beneficiary of Mr Hs estate.
Mrs Hs complaint is that Santander UK Plc has caused loss to the estate by acceding  to her 
request to change the mortgage on the property (which remains in the name of Mr H) to 
interest-only in 2004. She is also unhappy about the interest rate and charges on the 
account.
To settle  the complaint, Mrs H wants to be put back in the position she would have been in if 
Santander had not charged  any interest. 
Mrs Hs son, Mr F, has brought the complaint on behalf of his mother I will refer to Mrs H 
throughout for ease of reference.  I will also refer to Santander throughout, to include its 
former business names.
background
This complaint is rather simpler than its been presented. Mr H had a mortgage with 
Santander. After  he died in 2001, Mrs H, as Administrator of his estate, was responsible for 
dealing with the mortgage. 
Generally where  the sole party to the mortgage has died, the estate is required to repay the 
mortgage, or, if the property is the home of the main beneficiary, that party  can apply to have 
the mortgage transferred into their name.
Mrs H did neither of those things. At Mrs Hs request in 2004 Santander converted  the 
mortgage to interest-only. The mortgage  remained  on interest-only  and still in the name  of 
Mr H and it wasnt until 2019 that a complaint was raised about this. 
The mortgage expired in 2015 and the outstanding  balance  about £30,000  remains  due 
to Santander.  The secured property  is worth in excess of £500,000. Mrs H no longer lives in 
the property but a relative, who I am told is disabled, lives there. The property is not on the 
market for sale.
Mrs Hs complaint that Santander failed to provide her with advice or guidance from 2001 to 
the present,  and that interest charged  to the mortgage, and subsequent charges have not 
been charged lawfully .
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H brought it to us. Initially Santander queried 
whether or not we had jurisdiction to consider the complaint  about  conversion to interest-
only, and about  fees and charges applied more  than six years ago. But an ombudsman  
decided that we could consider the complaint  about  conversion to interest-only. He also 
found that we could  consider fees and charges from 18 January 2013 onwards.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that Mrs H had been made aware of the impact of switching  to interest-only and he didnt 
think that this had caused any disadvantage.
Ref: DRN04504402He was also satisfied  that interest  had been  applied correctly,  and that fees and charges had 
been properly  applied, with one fee of £42.24 for a field agents visit applied on 18 June 
2018 being refunded.
Overall, the investigator  was satisfied Santander  hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators findings. No new arguments were  presented,  just a 
chronology of what Mrs H says has happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
As I said above, the main issue in the complaint is a simple one. Mrs H is alleging that the 
estate has lost out because the mortgage was converted to interest-only in 2004. She is also 
unhappy about the interest rate and charges on the account, which I will come to later.
Santander will generally expect a mortgage  to be repaid after the death of the borrower 
within a reasonable amount of time, and usually within a year. In this case, taking into 
account Mrs Hs position, Santander showed forbearance and, due to Mrs Hs 
circumstances, transferred the mortgage onto interest-only at her request. 
Im satisfied that this was reasonable in all the circumstances.  It appears  Mrs H wasnt  in a 
position to take over the mortgage  herself.  This was her home and Santanders security was 
not at risk. Mrs H was eligible for assistance  from the (then)  Department of Social Security 
for payment of mortgage  interest. So given all the above, I dont think  Santander  acted 
unreasonably when it agreed to convert  the mortgage to interest-only.
The starting point  here is that, almost 20 years  after Mr H died, his estate has still not been  
wound up. That is the responsibility of Mrs H, who is the Administrator of the estate, not 
Santander. As Mrs H is the sole beneficiary, there  is no pressure on her from other 
beneficiaries to distribute the assets,  so she might  not have realised the importance of 
making sure affairs were put in order in relation to the mortgage. But I cant  hold Santander 
responsible for the shortcomings in the way in which the estate has been  handled,  as that is 
nothing to do with the bank.
Ref: DRN04504403Santander is under no duty to give advice or guidance to Mrs H about her obligations as 
Administrator of the estate. Im satisfied from the available documentation that Santander 
offered Mrs H mortgage advice, for which she would need to see an adviser  at a branch.
Im also satisfied that Santander  acted sympathetically and sensitively by not putting 
pressure on Mrs H to repay the mortgage. In the circumstances, I dont find Santander did 
anything wrong  in granting  forbearance  to Mrs H. 
Ultimately I have decide whether there  has been any loss to the estate and its sole 
beneficiary, Mrs H, as a result of the mortgage  being  changed  to interest-only in 2004.  
Having looked  at whats happened  I dont  think  there  has been any loss to the estate. Ill 
explain why.
The change to interest-only happened at Mrs Hs request. I conclude this because the letter  
from Santander dated 3 November 2004  says that Santander has agreed to this request. 
This had the effect of reducing her monthly outgoings, so she was paying less for the 
mortgage than if it had remained on capital and interest repayment. The mortgage balance  
did not reduce,  which means the estate  will have to pay this back. But in her personal 
capacity, Mrs H has benefitted, by paying  a lower amount  than the full monthly repayment of 
capital and interest.
Generally in a situation where the actions of a beneficiary have resulted in loss to the estate, 
then the Administrator or Executor of the estate, on behalf of the other beneficiaries,  is under 
an obligation  to mitigate the position  and recoup the loss. This is done, by asking that 
beneficiary to reimburse the estate for any loss, or alternatively to adjust distribution of the 
estate assets to take any advantage one beneficiary  has had over another  into account. 
For example, if there were other  beneficiaries of Mr Hs estate, they could argue that, 
although Mrs H has benefitted  from making  lower  repayments, this has resulted in loss to 
them, as the amount to be repaid to Santander for the unpaid capital balance on the 
mortgage account will have to come out of the estate  assets.  This means  they will receive  
less. The estate would then be required to compensate those beneficiaries for any loss 
theyve suffered due to the actions of another beneficiary.
But in this case, there is only one beneficiary.  So if Mrs H in her capacity as Administrator of 
the estate is claiming  that there  is a loss due to the account having been transferred to 
interest-only, then the reason for that loss is that Mrs H herself  asked Santander to transfer 
the account onto interest-only.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied the net position  is the same. The estate will have to pay 
back the capital  balance which has arisen  as a result of the mortgage  being transferred onto 
interest-only in 2004. But Mrs H in her personal capacity has had the full benefit  of the 
reduced payments  since 2004 by paying  less for the mortgage than if it had remained on 
capital and interest. 
Given this, Im satisfied that neither the estate nor Mrs H as its sole beneficiary have 
suffered any actual financial loss as a result of the mortgage being  put onto interest-only. 
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
As far as interest applied  to the account is concerned, Mrs H has said she does not consider 
this to be lawful. The Financial Ombudsman Service  isnt a court and so I dont have the 
power to determine  whether something  is lawful  or not. Only a court can determine that.
Ref: DRN04504404But Im satisfied that Santander is entitled under the mortgage conditions  to charge interest 
on the unpaid  capital balance. Im also satisfied  that interest has been applied  fairly at 
Santanders prevailing Standard Variable Rate.
In the circumstances, Santanders dont  nothing wrong in applying  interest  to the account  
and I dont uphold  this part of the complaint.
Ive looked at charges applied to the account since 2013. I can see two fees for field agents  
applied in June  2017 and June 2018. The fee for June 2018  was refunded as no prior 
notification was given  of this.
Ive not seen any other charges that I consider to have been  applied unfairly. There have 
been arrears fees on the account since 2017,  but Im satisfied these have been applied  
fairly, and in accordance with the account  terms and conditions.  I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
I note the points Mrs H has made  about  her dissatisfaction  with a request for a Subject 
Access Request (SAR). Non-compliance  with a SAR request falls within  the remit of the 
Office of the Information Commissioner, not the Financial Ombudsman Service.
After taking everything into account, Im satisfied Santander has not acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. This means that Im not upholding  any part of this complaint.
Although Mrs H has had the assistance  of her son in this matter, I think it might  benefit her to 
take some  legal advice  from a solicitor who specialists in estates, so that she can finally wind 
up the estate and settle the outstanding debt. to Santander (as well as any other debts  the 
estate might have). The Law Society  will be able to provide Mrs H with details of a solicitor 
specialising in this area of the law. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H, on behalf  of 
the estate of the late Mr H to accept or reject  my decision  before  21 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0450440