K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Canada Square  Operations Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold  him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a credit card in 2001.
background
EGG was an internet  based  account.  EGGs  records show  that Mr C applied  online for his 
credit card with PPI via the EGG website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr C is mainly concerned that it wasnt made clear to him that he couldve declined PPI 
without losing the chance of getting  the credit card he wanted.  
Mr C has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. 
I think Egg made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mr C completed  he had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No and his application  wouldve continued  without PPI being 
included if hed done that. Mr C had to select one of those options to proceed  with his 
application. So I think he wouldve been  aware  that it was up to him to say if he wanted the 
PPI at the time - even  if hes forgotten this now. On balance, I find that EGG made Mr C 
aware that he had a choice about  protecting his repayments and he wanted to do so at the 
time. 
As this was an online transaction, Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C. So it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable  for him.
Ive taken into account what Mr C has told us about his financial circumstances. Hoping 
someone else can help in the event  of financial difficulty isnt as dependable as taking out 
PPI. I dont know if Mr C wouldve always been able to rely on family to help out if he couldnt 
work and had money problems. 
The policy wouldve protected  Mr C if he was disabled  or too sick to work as well as paying 
out if hed lost his job. PPI wouldve  more  than covered his EGG card minimum monthly 
repayments and cleared  his card balance if hed needed to claim for the full 12 months. It 
doesnt appear that Mr C had any significant  other means he couldve relied on if he wasnt  
working, So I think Mr C couldve benefitted from having the policy.  
It doesnt look like Mr C wouldve been caught by any of the conditions  which  limited the 
policys cover for some  people.  So, I dont  think that knowing  more  about things the policy  
didnt cover wouldve  made any difference to Mr Cs decision to take it out. 
Ref: DRN00482102Next to where Mr C was asked to decide about the PPI on the application  he completed, the 
purpose of the cover  is broadly  described, the cost is set out and theres some information 
about the benefits that the policy offers.  The policy provided Mr C with the protection  broadly 
described on the website which hed indicated  he was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the policy was unaffordable  for him when he took it out.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr C still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed  as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.
This means  I dont  find that Mr C has lost out as a result of anything that EGG mightve done 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0048210