K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 20 March  2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this PPI policy had not been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
20 April 2019. But neither Mrs W nor FICL  have  sent me anything  new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular  PPI policy  
was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09949522COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs W bought  the policy in 2003,  at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ws store  card application briefly explained what PPI was for, and what  it cost.  There was a place 
she could sign if she wanted  to buy it, or which could be left blank if she didnt  want it. Mrs W signed  
specifically for PPI, separately to signing  for the application as a whole.  So I think that Mrs W was 
made aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though 
I can understand if she doesnt remember doing so after so long.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so they didnt have  to check if it was right for her. They did 
have to give Mrs W enough  information  to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here,  Mrs W 
chose to take out the policy, which  implies she wanted this type of cover. While she had some sick 
pay through work, the PPI covered her for longer and paid out on top. And Mrs W doesnt seem to 
have had any other  protection in case she lost her job. I understand her friends  and family mightve 
been willing to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this 
policy meant Mrs W wouldnt  have to ask her friends or family to pay her store  card.  So the PPI 
couldve been  useful  for her in case something went wrong. And if Mrs Ws circumstances changed,  
she could cancel the PPI at any time without a penalty.
As our adjudicator  pointed out, Mrs W did have a medical  condition which  might not have been 
covered. FICL  questioned how the condition mightve affected her ability  to work, and we asked her 
representatives. So far as theyve told us, Mrs W never took time off work for her condition. They 
havent mentioned her suffering any complications, and havent told us that it affected her ability to 
work in any significant way. Its worth bearing  mind  that the PPI was there to cover extended time off 
work, but from what Mrs W has told us its difficult to see how her condition  would cause that. So 
based on what Ive received  so far, it doesnt sound like Mrs W wouldve  thought  her condition was 
likely to ever cause her to claim. Further, she could  have  claimed for time off for other conditions,  and 
she wasnt affected  by any of the policys other exclusions or limitations. So I still think  the policy  
couldve been  useful  for Mrs W in her circumstances. And so I dont think  that better  information was 
likely to have put her off taking out the policy.
Ref: DRN09949523my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Please could  Mrs W and FICL send me any more information or comments to look at by 
20 April 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0994952