K822xComplaint
Mr M complains about the quality  of a new car he acquired though a hire purchase 
agreement financed by Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen 
Finance (VWFS).
Background 
The background to this complaint and my preliminary findings were set out in a provisional 
decision dated 24 February 2020 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  submissions  they might  have before 
I reached my final decision. Both Mr M and VWFS  responded  to my provisional decision to 
say that they accepted my findings.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am pleased  to see that VWFS has accepted my findings.
As neither Mr M or VWFS  have asked me to consider any further  submissions in relation to 
this complaint I uphold  this complaint  for the reasons detailed  in my provisional decision. 
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) Limited trading as 
Volkswagen Finance. To settle it VWFS should:  
refund  Mr M £534.99 he paid to the dealership; 
refund  15% of the monthly payments made  from November 2017  until the end of the 
agreement (save the August 2018 payment which has already been refunded); 
pay Mr M 8% simple yearly interest  on all refunds  calculated  from date of payment to 
date of settlement  (this includes the payment to the dealership  to exit the 
agreement); and 
pay Mr M £250 compensation for the inconvenience and distress  this situation has 
caused him.
If VWFS does  not pay this £250  compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days  
of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision  then it must  also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
If VWFS considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr M how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Ref: DRN00797892Siobhan Kelly
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN00797893Copy of provisional decision 
Complaint
Mr M complains about the quality  of a new car he acquired though a hire purchase 
agreement financed by Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen 
Finance (VWFS).
Background
In February 2016,  Mr M acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement. He appears  
to have had a trouble-free drive of the car for the first 20 months  or so, but by November 
2017 he started to have  problems with the car. 
Below is a summary  of the issues complained of by Mr M and the investigation/repair  work 
carried out by the dealership (collated from the car history provided  by VWFS and the job 
sheets):
Date Mileage Issue
2 Nov 17 22,114  The ignition was not coming on and the car had to be cranked
to start. 
The dealer  was unable to reproduce the fault on this occasion and no fault codes were 
stored. There was technical product information (TPI) in relation to the issue and a software 
update was carried out, although it seems the software was already the most up-to-date 
version and the fault couldnt  be further  replicated. The notes record that more  information 
was required from Mr M as to the pattern of the issue. 
8 Nov 17 22,141 The ignition wasnt booting  up. 
No record of the investigation/work done on this occasion has been provided. 
17 May 17 27,920 All warning lights on the dash were on including the engine 
management light (EML), the car was cutting out, and the light 
came on for the coolant levels (even  though  the coolant was 
full.)
The dealer  found numerous fault codes including  the fault code for limp mode.  It seems  that 
the control unit was faulty and this was replaced. The fault codes were cleared  and the car 
was taken on a test drive  and performed  without  issue. 
23 May 18 29,272 Engine was cutting out. 
The workshop confirmed there were warning lights on the dash. They carried  out tests and 
having done so replaced the dash insert. The issue was still there  after a road test, with the 
warning lights still coming  on and the radio stopped working. Further investigation was 
required to confirm the fault.  
Ref: DRN0079789411 Jun 2018 29,632 The radio  and dash panel were  going off while driving. The 
EML and airbag  lights were coming on. The engine continued 
to run and although  the car was moving,  the rev and speed 
counter both showed at zero. The fault was intermittent and 
occurred when braking on a decline. 
Various investigative work was carried out on this occasion and it seems  the car was with 
the dealer for about two months.  Following  a technical enquiry, different parts (wiper linkage, 
bulk head, dash  panel, dash pod and airbag) were removed and refitted  and various wiring 
checks were carried  out. However, on a test drive the faults re-occurred. 
Further wiring checks were carried out and again technical advice was sought. A new 
crimped node was fitted. After  extensive  road testing, lights/messages  chimed  when braking 
from speed stating  the coolant level was low and the bonnet  was open (which it wasnt),  but 
the original faults  complained of didnt  re-occur. More wiring testing was carried out. It was 
discovered that the car wasnt equipped with a washer level sensor  system indicating  a dash 
insert coding  issue. A re-coding  of the dash panel  insert was carried  out and wiring  harness 
tape was applied.  
When the car went into the garage  on this occasion,  Mr M contacted VWFS  to complain 
about the issues he had been having  with it.
On 18 July 2018, VWFS issued its final response. It said, in summary, as the finance  
provider it was responsible for faults which are present at the point of sale.  It said as the 
faults Mr M experienced  had occurred a year and eight months after he got the car they 
were not present at the point of sale. 
Mr M contacted this service. He explained that he had several issues  with the car since 
November 2017.  He said it had been in and out of the garage  on a number of occasions and 
each time it was supposedly fixed, but it failed again. He explained that he had been trying  to 
reject the car for the previous six weeks,  but had been told that he couldnt.  
Mr M got the car back in mid-August 2018,  but he said when he collected  it the issues were 
still there. So he contacted VWFS  and the dealer to see if he could get them  to take back the 
car. 
VWFS said that he could voluntarily terminate  the agreement, but he would be liable for a 
shortfall of about  £1,486 and £440 for the extra mileage he had driven. Mr M didnt think this 
was fair, especially given all the miles that the dealer had driven the car when testing it. 
At the end of August,  Mr M arranged for the dealership to take the car back  as he said he 
didnt feel he had any other choice. However,  in order to get it to take the car back  Mr M said 
he had to pay it £534.99. He thinks VWFS  should reimburse this amount as well as some 
compensation and for any mileage charges to be waived. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and let both parties know  that she thought  the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality and made an initial recommendation  about what  VWFS needed 
to do to put things  right,  including refunding Mr Ms deposit. 
VWFS explained that Mr M hadnt in fact brought a deposit into the agreement (and there 
was instead negative equity of £611  carried over from his old agreement), that it had waived 
Ref: DRN00797895any excess mileage charges and that it had refunded Mr Ms August  rental  of £218 (the 
agreement was paid one month  in arrears and so was refunded  as it wasnt  due).
VWFS also told us that further  work  had been done  on the car after Mr M had handed  it 
back. The records show that the car was in the workshop again in January 2019  with various 
warning lights coming  on in intermittently. The workshop found a TPI relevant to the issues.  
It transpired that a tail lamp connector was corroded and replaced, as well as wires into the 
harness for the tail lamp.  
Ultimately our investigator recommended that VWFS refund 15% of the monthly payments 
Mr M had made from May 2018  onwards and pay him £250 for the inconvenience  caused. 
VWFS accepted this recommendation. Mr M didnt. He said the whole thing had been  very 
stressful and he didnt  think  the recommendation went far enough. He said it didnt even 
cover the money  he had to pay the dealer to come out of the agreement. So he asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can consider a 
complaint relating to it. VWFS as the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement  is 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.  
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general  state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose,  appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects  of the quality of goods .
Here, the car was acquired new with a cash price of around £14,570.  So, I think its fair to 
say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a second-
hand, more road-worn car and that it could  be used  free from defects  for a considerable 
period of time. 
VWFS said the faults happened too far on from the point of supply for them  to have been  
present when supplied. I appreciate the problems with the car happened about a year and 
eight months after Mr M got the car, and after he had driven it around 21,000 miles, but I 
need to consider whether  the car was durable.  If parts or systems of the car fail prematurely, 
this might indicate there was already a problem with the car when it was supplied. 
Ref: DRN00797896Looking at what has gone wrong with this car, it seems to be primarily an issue  with warning 
lights coming on incorrectly  and unexpectedly,  the car cutting out or not starting  and the car 
on occasion acting  bizarrely  such as indicating zero on the speedometer when the car was 
moving. I can see why some of the instances Mr M described as to of how these faults 
occurred would have  been quite concerning for him. 
Looking at the investigation  work undertaken, there were TPIs and technical  queries raised  
in relation to the issues Mr M was experiencing, which  indicated  that extensive checks  to the 
wiring had to be undertaken on more than one occasion. The existence of TPIs in relation to 
the faults complained of by Mr M indicates  to me that there  were  known issues, similar to the 
problems Mr M described, that could  possibly manifest in Mr Ms particular car. 
In term of repairs, parts were removed and refitted, including the control unit (which  was 
faulty) and the dash insert. I also note the need for a software  update. A problem was 
eventually identified  after much investigative work - with a node  which was refitted. It was 
also discovered that the car wasnt equipped with a washer level sensor system indicating a 
dash insert coding issue. 
All of this took extensive investigation  and what seems like quite  painstaking efforts to 
uncover and try to resolve  the problems, but it seems, failed to do so. Mr M said the issues 
arose again when he got the car back in August 2018. And it seems similar issues to those 
he complained  of are recorded after he gave back the car - with a further workshop visit 
recorded in January 2019 noting  a TPI indicating a tail lamp connector  had corroded  (which 
was replaced as well as wires into the harness  for the tail lamp). 
All things  considered, I dont think it reasonable to expect a new car to be experiencing 
issues such as these  at less than two years  old and having been  driven  around 21,000 
miles. It seems to me that there was some  overall issue with the wiring of the car and its 
electrical systems werent  operating as to be expected. The issues  complained of here dont 
appear to be likely caused by natural and inevitable wear and tear. Nor have I been told 
anything that leads me to think that they have been  caused by driving style or accidental 
damage of some kind.
Instead, I think theres enough information  to persuade  me, on the balance of probabilities,  
the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr M  in particular  that it 
wasnt reasonably  durable. 
Having made that finding I now need  to decide what, if anything VWFS should do to put 
things right. It is clear  Mr M wasnt happy with the car and when he contacted  VWFS to 
complain about  its quality it didnt do anything to help him and so I can understand why he 
arranged to hand it back to the dealer and reluctantly pay £534.99. 
I dont think it fair that Mr M had to pay that to come out of the agreement.  Had VWFS 
accepted rejection of the car, as I think it should have, then he wouldnt have incurred that 
cost and so I think he needs to be refunded that amount. 
I am also mindful that Mr M has no deposit to be returned, but rather  he carried about  £616 
in negative equity  into the agreement. As he had paid the agreement for about  two and half 
years, he will have  paid a proportion of that off and ultimately  the agreement  was settled in 
full, so VWFS has no loss here. 
Ref: DRN00797897I also note that Mr M was inconvenienced  on several occasions by having  to take the car 
back and forth to the garage. He was, it seems,  kept mobile  in a courtesy car, but ultimately  
that wasnt the car he was paying  for. Whats more,  it seems  his car was, on one occasion, 
with the dealership for almost  two months  while it tried to work out what  was wrong with it. I 
can also imagine it would  have been very frustrating and stressful  for the problems to keep 
re-occurring as they did. So I think the £250  suggested by our investigator for the distress  
and inconvenience  he experienced  is fair. 
I do however think that the redress for his loss of/impaired usage  of his car should  flow from 
when he first started to experience problems in November 2017 and I think  the 15% 
recommended by our investigator broadly reflects the loss of/impaired  use - bearing in mind  
the overall award I am making here.
My provisional decision
I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint against Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading  as Volkswagen Finance and tell it to:
refund  Mr M £534.99 he paid to the dealership; 
refund  15% of the monthly payments made  from November 2017  until the end of the 
agreement (save the August 2018 payment which has already been refunded); 
pay Mr M 8% simple yearly interest  on all refunds  calculated  from date of payment to 
date of settlement  (this includes the payment to the dealership  to exit the 
agreement); and 
pay Mr M £250 compensation for the inconvenience and distress  this situation has 
caused him.
If VWFS does  not pay this £250  compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days  
of the date on which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision  then it must  also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
If VWFS considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr M how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I now invite both parties  to provide me with any further comments that they wish me to 
consider by 9 March  2020. 
Siobhan Kelly
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0079789