K820x#14complaint
Mrs L had a home emergency insurance  policy with British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI). 
She complains that in the course of servicing her central heating  boiler  under the policy,  its 
engineer caused the boiler  chassis to crack.  As a result the boiler was condemned and she 
had to buy a new boiler.
background
Mrs L was entitled  to an annual boiler  service under her home emergency policy. The boiler 
was serviced by BGI in January 2017.  In March 2018 a BGI engineer  attended to carry out 
the 2018 service.
Mrs L says all went well until the engineer was putting the front of the boiler back  when he 
had trouble making it fit. He then said the boiler chassis  was cracked  and the boiler was 
leaking gas. So he turned  off the gas supply and condemned the boiler.
Mrs L said there had been no gas leak until after the engineer  had worked on the boiler. She 
had a gas alarm;  it hadnt gone  off, nor had she smelt gas. So she thought  he had caused 
the crack.  He denied  this. Because of the age of the boiler it couldnt  be repaired. So Mrs L 
had to buy a replacement boiler.  She complained to BGI. She didnt think she should have to 
pay the full cost of the new boiler.
BGI paid her £80 as a gesture of goodwill for delays in arranging the service, and in 
responding to her complaint. However  it didnt accept the main part of her complaint. 
It said it had sent a second engineer  to review the damaged  boiler. A service  manager and 
an area manager had also reviewed her complaint. None of them thought the first engineer 
was at fault.
BGI said the first engineer  had found the crack  in the chassis  at the end of the service visit. 
But it didnt think he could  have  caused  the crack  through poor workmanship. It thought  this 
had occurred over time due to stress and the age of the appliance. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He had looked at 
the engineers  worksheets which said:
Code 4 Crack in chassis, fumes escaping into room, ID and Capped, HSA arranged.
and
 
There was also a decorative case covering the damaged chassis.  So this might  be why the 
engineer didnt notice the damage straight away. In order to say the engineer had done  
something wrong, the investigator said he would need to see evidence of the engineer being 
negligent when  he carried out the service. He hadnt seen this so he didnt think  he could ask 
BGI to pay anything towards Mrs Ls new boiler.
BGI had paid Mrs L £80 in recognition  of delays and some service  issues.  The investigator 
thought this was fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN08666632Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  recommendation.  She said the boiler  was working  fine 
before the engineer stared working on it, and he hadnt noticed the crack, or any gas leak,  
when he began. So she still maintained that he had broken the chassis in the course of 
working on the boiler. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs L feels the engineer must  be responsible  for the crack  in the chassis  
and connected  gas leak. As far as she knew the boiler was working properly before the 
engineers visit, and after he had been  working  on it the crack and the gas leak were found. 
However the fact that the damage became apparent after the service  doesnt necessarily 
mean it was caused  by the service work.
In a technical area such as this we place  reliance on the expert evidence that is available.  In 
this case, all the expert evidence available - from the engineer who carried  out the service,  
the second engineer who confirmed the damage,  and the two BGI managers  - is that the 
work the engineer did wasnt the cause  of the damage that led to the boiler being 
condemned. I havent seen any other  expert evidence to contradict this.
I also bear in mind that according to BGI manufacture of this particular boiler  stopped in 
1993. This means it was at least 25 years  old at the time it failed. BGI also says it had been 
suggesting to Mr L since 2010 that she should  consider replacing it. 
In the absence of any expert evidence that the actions of the engineer caused the boiler  to 
fail I think its most likely, in view of its age, that it failed  because of wear  and tear. In these 
circumstances I cant reasonably require BGI to contribute towards the cost of Mrs Ls 
replacement boiler.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0866663