K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc treated her unfairly when she got into financial 
difficulties and had problems paying off her loan. She says it didnt make  enough  effort to 
contact her about the issues.
background
Miss S took out a loan with HSBC in 2017. Sadly,  shortly after she took the loan out, her 
father passed away which had a serious impact on Miss S and meant  she had to go abroad 
for several  months to sort things out. This made it difficult for Miss S to keep up payment on 
the loan so she contacted  HSBC about her problems. HSBC agreed  to freeze the account  
for two months in November 2017 and when she contacted it again in early  2018, it agreed 
to another freeze of one month. After that it tried to contact Miss S by letter but there  was no 
response. Following  several missed payments, the account was defaulted.
Miss S contacted HSBC in June 2018  to complain about this because  she said it hadnt 
contacted her about the loan or made its collections  process  clear.  But HSBC  rejected her 
complaint so she came to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt 
think it should be upheld.  So Miss S asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that Miss S has been 
through a very difficult period and that this had an impact on her finances. But based on 
what Ive seen, I dont  think HSBCs  treated her unfairly and Ill explain why.
When Miss S contacted  HSBC in November 2017 and again in January 2018, it agreed to 
freeze the account  to help her over a difficult period. But it told her to get back in touch about 
the loan to discuss her circumstances.  She didnt follow up with HSBC for several months 
and she didnt notify it about  her change of address. So HSBC couldnt  contact her about the 
loan over that time. 
HSBCs collections  process meant that, after seven missed payments the account was 
defaulted. HSBC  did communicate with Miss S at the address it had on record and I think  
this was enough in the circumstances.  I understand that Miss S was going through a 
stressful time so contacting HSBC may not have been a priority. But I think  HSBC took the 
steps Id expect it to in trying to contact her by letter. HSBCs obliged to give an accurate  
account of the way people  manage  their debts to credit reference  agencies so I dont think  it 
was wrong to report the default.
I can see the situation has caused Miss S a lot of stress and Im sorry to hear about her 
circumstances. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think  HSBC  has treated her unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2019.
Ref: DRN08167002Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0816700