K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mrs G says National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that this application started online and Mrs G was then sent out a credit agreement 
to sign. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although I dont know how the PPI was presented online, Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Gs 
signed credit card application  form. 
Underneath where Mrs G has signed the overall  credit agreement, theres a section  
with options to add additional  products  to the account. Theres a tick next to the 
option for PPI. NatWest  have said that this would have been  electronically ticked  
during the internet application.  
Even if this was the case and the box was ticked when  Mrs G received the form, she 
still was required to sign separately to take out PPI  which she has done. Ive also 
noted that in this section it states;  Optional  Insurance  you will NOT be covered 
unless you tick and sign above. Mrs G had the option of not signing separately and 
the PPI wouldnt  have been  added. 
On balance, I think NatWest made  it clear  that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she might  not 
remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed  to decide 
if it was right for her and if she wanted to take it out. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
Ref: DRN04183712But NatWest  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  NatWest didnt tell    
Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including  what shes  said about not needing 
PPI because of her sick pay entitlement. But the PPI policy would  have paid out for longer 
than Mrs Gs sick pay entitlement would have lasted. So I cant  fairly say that she didnt need 
the PPI and these  points  dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do  if it hasnt already done so
NatWest has to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. NatWest  should also pay back to Mrs G any extra interest  she 
paid because of that.
NatWest should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back  to Mrs G the difference 
between what Mrs G owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest  should also pay Mrs G 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
If it has already paid this, I dont  award  any further  redress. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0418371