K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has handled  a 
claim they made under their legal  expenses insurance policy.
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Ageas I mean both the underwriter itself and any 
agents acting  on its behalf. 
background
Mr and Mrs S are involved  in an ongoing  dispute  with their neighbours in regards to work 
carried out which Mr and Mrs S believe negatively impacted their property. They  have 
brought a number of complaints to this service  already in regards to this matter.  
Mr and Mrs S contacted Ageas in 2010  to make a claim under their legal expenses 
insurance policy. The claim  remained open  and was reviewed and revised  on multiple 
occasions between  2010 and 2018 when Ageas confirmed it no longer  had reasonable 
prospects of success and so would no longer be covered by Mr and Mrs S policy.
However as the case was about to be heard in court Ageas decided, on the back of the legal 
advice it received from its agents, to settle  the case with the other  party. This was done  in 
order to protect Mr and Mrs S from additional  costs in the future. As a result Ageas paid 
£34,000 to settle the costs of Mr and Mrs S neighbours. As the policy  provided 
Mr and Mrs S with cover up to £50,000,  and their legal costs exceeded £16,000 this meant 
that they would now be personally  liable for some of their costs as the remaining amount 
wouldnt be enough to cover their entire legal bill.
Mr and Mrs S have  said that the case was badly mishandled by Ageas legal agents and that 
they experienced unnecessary delays  from Ageas  in regards to its decision to withdraw 
cover. They  have also said that it was unreasonable for Ageas to decide  to settle the case  
after it had told them they were no longer covered under their policy.
Ageas has said that it progressed the claim as per the policys terms and conditions. It has 
confirmed that it followed  the legal advice  provided  by its agents, which it feels it was entitled  
to do. It doesnt  agree  that the claim was delayed and has said that when it was confirmed  in 
2018 that the case no longer had reasonable prospects of success it agreed to cover  the 
costs of settling the case in order  to protect Mr and Mrs S best interests.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs S complaint already. He found  that Ageas 
had behaved appropriately and reasonably in how it handled the claim and so he didnt think 
it needed to do anything more. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators  findings and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  their complaint, and so the case has been passed  to me 
to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold 
the complaint  and Id like to explain why. 
Mr and Mrs S have  discussed at length their concerns on how their claim was handled. They 
have said repeatedly that the legal agents  appointed  by Ageas mishandled their case and 
prejudiced it. We have explained  to Mr and Mrs S, both in relation to this complaint, and 
Ref: DRN07371632others brought to our service, we cant look into complaints about the advice given by legal 
agents or the costs they charged for the work they completed. These  fall outside of our 
jurisdiction and were not allowed to comment on such matters. My understanding  is that 
Mr and Mrs S are aware  of this and have brought a separate complaint to the legal 
ombudsman in regards  to these issues. 
So it remains for me to consider whether or not Ageas caused any delays to Mr and Mrs S 
claim and whether or not it was appropriate for the underwriter to withdraw cover for the 
claim and settle it with the other  party. 
In regards to whether  or not any unnecessary delays  were caused to the claim by Ageas, I 
have looked at the time line of the claim very carefully. This matter goes back over almost  10 
years and I can only imagine how frustrating and distressing  it has become for 
Mr and Mrs S. However, from what I can see Ageas contacted Mr and Mrs S in March last 
year to explain that it had received a review  of the case from a barrister and had been told it 
was unlikely to win at court.  So Ageas decided to withdraw cover for the claim under the 
policys terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs S have  asked why it took so long for this to be established and referred  to 
previous expert opinions  which  had been received prior to 2018,  which  said the same thing. 
My understanding of this is that due to the length of time the matter  had been going on, there 
had been a number of legal opinions provided  at different stages of the claim. The one 
received in March  2018 was the latest, and I cant see that any unreasonable  or 
unnecessary delays took place between Ageas receiving the opinion  and contacting  
Mr and Mrs S to inform them the claim was no longer covered under the policy.   
Mr and Mrs S have  also said that legal advice given  to Ageas was wrong and their case was 
mishandled by the solicitors appointed by the legal  agent. As explained  above  I cant 
comment on the legal opinion of the solicitors. But I can say that it was reasonable of Ageas 
to rely on the legal advice it received from its agents. Underwriters are not legal experts  and 
so they depend on the expertise  and knowledge of the solicitors and barristers  they work  
with. And I can see that once a claim is considered to have less than 50% prospects of 
success in court, Ageas are entitled to refuse to cover the claim as per the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So I dont think Ageas did anything wrong in how,  or when, it 
decided to withdraw cover for the claim and I wont be asking it to do any more in relation to 
these aspects of Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
The final issue I need to consider is whether or not Ageas  acted appropriately when it 
agreed to settle  the case and pay Mr and Mrs S neighbours  legal costs.  Ageas has 
explained that it received the barristers  opinion that the case had less than 50% likely 
success rate in court a week before the case was due to be heard. Therefore, in order  to 
limit Mr and Mrs S exposure to future, and potentially significantly increased costs  it decided 
to settle the case  before  it went to court. In doing  so it agreed to pay the legal fees of the 
other party first and the remainder of the cover available under the policy would be used to 
cover Mr and Mrs S legal  fees.  However the policy  only provided Mr and Mrs S with £50,000  
worth of cover and their neighbours legal costs came to £34,000. Which meant that Mr and 
Mrs S would now be liable for some  of their legal costs themselves. 
Mr and Mrs S have  asked why Ageas were entitled to settle the dispute if cover  had been  
withdrawn over a year prior to the settlement. However there were a number of different 
opinions on prospects given at different stages  of their claim and the final one was provided  
little over a week before  the case was due to be heard in court.  And it was at this point 
Ref: DRN07371633Ageas decided to withdraw the cover. So I think it was reasonable for Ageas  to try to protect 
Mr and Mrs S by limiting their liability in the matter and settling the case  before the costs  
escalated any further.   
Therefore having  taken  everything into consideration I dont think Ageas behaved 
unreasonably in how it handled Mr and Mrs S claim and I wont be asking it to do any more  
in relation to it.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint again Ageas 
Insurance Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0737163