K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy because  he believes he was mis-sold his buildings and contents insurance  
policy by Leeds  Building Society. He says the policy included  cover that he didnt need, and 
the policy was completely  unsuitable for him. He says that when the policy was withdrawn in 
2016, he was offered  a more suitable policy  for a substantially lower premium. He would like 
a refund of the premiums he feels hes overpaid  throughout  the lifetime  of the policy.  
background
Mr G had a buildings  and contents insurance  policy which was administered  by Leeds 
Building Society and underwritten by a different business. The policy  was taken out along  
with a mortgage in 1993 and automatically renewed every year until the policy  was 
withdrawn from the market in 2016.  At this point Mr G was offered an alternative policy.
Mr G paid an annual premium of £310.75 in 1993.  By 2015 he was paying £934.68. The 
alternative policy he was sold in 2016 had a premium of £382.67.
Mr G wants to know why there is such a large  difference between  the renewal price on the 
policy he had, and the price of the new alternative  policy. He doesnt think hes being treated 
fairly despite being a loyal customer.  When he contacted Leeds Building  Society  he was told 
that the older policy was a block policy and it contained numerous additional covers  such as 
travel insurance and cover for bicycles. It even had additional spousal cover  and separate 
cover for children, none of which  he says he needed. Mr G believes hes been overpaying 
for his insurance and he wants  a refund.
Leeds Building Society disagree and say that nothing has gone  wrong.  Unhappy,  with this 
Mr G referred  the complaint to our service.
Our investigator also felt that Leeds  Building  Society hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
But Mr G disagrees, so the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to
Mr G, so Id like to explain  why.
Mr G has complained about a number of issues, including the price  he was charged for the 
policy. But its the underwriter of the policy who set the price and not Leeds Building Society. 
In this decision Ive only considered the parts of the complaint that Leeds  Building Society is 
able to deal with.
the sale
Mr G says that the policy was mis-sold to him. Leeds Building  Society  has explained that 
Mr G was offered a mortgage  product  with two interest rate options; the first at the full 
mortgage interest rate, and the second  at a discounted mortgage interest rate with the 
condition that the Homecover policy was put in place. Leeds Building Society say that Mr G 
could at any point  cancel his insurance if it no longer  met his needs  and his mortgage would 
Ref: DRN09878902revert to the full interest rate. At the time Leeds  Building Society  did not offer an alternative 
home insurance product.
Having looked  at all the evidence available Im satisfied that the policy wasnt  mis-sold  to 
Mr G. Leeds Building Society has provided  us with a copy of the mortgage  application  form 
which is signed by Mr G. Its also provided  us with a copy of the Offer of Advance. And in 
this document,  I can see that the benefit  of Homecover is explained and that Mr G was 
asked to look at an attached document  for full cover  details. Its also explained that If the 
Homecover Plus policy is cancelled within or before 1 April 1996  the Society can at its 
discretion increase the interest  rate charged  to the standard mortgage rate applicable at the 
time of cancellation.
Mr G needed a home insurance  product  in order to take out the mortgage. And, I think that 
Mr G benefitted from having this policy. He got a lower rate of interest on his mortgage for a 
fixed period of time. Its also clear that this benefit  would end in April 1996. So, I think Leeds 
Building Society provided enough information here and the policy  wasnt  mis-sold.
over-insurance
Mr G says he was over-insured. When he asked why the new policy  cost so much less, he 
was told that this was a block  policy  that had a number of additional covers,  covers  that he 
says that he never needed.  
In terms of the cover provided, Leeds  Building  Society has told us that the Homecover policy  
was arranged on a Block basis, which provided  blanket cover ensuring that all customers  
insured under the scheme  were protected by adequate cover levels. Its also explained that 
an application form wouldve been  completed and that everything  wouldve been highlighted 
to Mr G at the time of sale. Its explained that the policy did have a number of additional 
benefits which it says cater  for the majority  of mortgage customers who find these features 
beneficial. Leeds  Building Society  says that these covers were advised  to all policyholders.  
I can see why Mr G is concerned about the cover he had. The way it was explained  in 2016 
made it seem like he was paying  a large  premium to cover insurance  that he didnt need. 
And it feels like the newer policy was more suitable  for him. 
And it may be that Mr G found that the new policy was a better fit for his needs  at the time he 
took it out in 2016. But it would be difficult to say that Leeds Building  Society  had done 
anything wrong  before  then. It administered a policy that was designed for a specific  
purpose, to cater for a wide range of different mortgage customers. The policy was sold as 
part of a benefit to the customer and the cover  was explained clearly.  So even if Mr G felt he 
was over insured  I cant agree. He chose to take this comprehensive policy  as part of a fixed 
interest mortgage deal.  The cover  was explained clearly and even if Mr G didnt make a 
claim under the policy, he did benefit  from the mortgage reduction.  
renewals
Leeds Building Society says its role was to carry out all sales and administrative tasks for the 
Homecover policy which included the production of policy documentation, renewal 
production and general policy administration. It was also expected  to liaise  with the insurer 
during a claim, dispute or service issues. 
Ref: DRN09878903This policy has been renewing  for over 20 years and due to the time that has passed  we 
wont have all documentation available to us. But I have seen the mortgage annual  renewal 
notifications from as far back as 2006, which include the Homecover renewal details. And 
Ive seen a Your Questions Answered  document from 1999.
The mortgage annual  renewal has a separate section for Home  Insurance. It sets out what 
the policy includes in terms  of cover, the sums insured and a number to contact. It also 
directs consumers to the Your Questions Answered booklet which also provides a contact 
number to call with queries. In later years the annual renewal document does include notice 
of discounts available, and in 2015  it also points consumers to a new product that had 
become available.
Leeds Building Society wrote to Mr G on an annual basis setting out the cost of the policy 
and a number  to contact if he wanted to discuss. Mr G has admitted that he tended to ignore  
offers and discounts  he may have received in the post. Hes also said that he didnt always  
review the home insurance documents he received. From the documents  Ive seen Im 
satisfied that Leeds  Building Society provided enough information for Mr G to decide  if he 
wanted to remain  on cover and he was given  detail if he wished to discuss it further. So, I 
cant agree  that Leeds Building Society  did anything wrong here.
 
the price
I know Mr G got a shock when he was quoted a reduced price on the alternative  policy.  And 
that Mr G thinks  that because he got a newer  discounted policy in 2016 this shows he was 
being overcharged. And I can understand why Mr G thinks  this. But the prices  over the years 
were set by the underwriter and not Leeds  Building Society.  This complaint is about Leeds 
Building Society only. So, I cant comment on the annual  premiums he paid over the years  in 
this decision. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. I dont think  Mr G was over-
insured, and I think the annual renewals were clear.  As I said earlier,  I do understand why 
Mr G was concerned. And I can see why he brought his complaint to our service. But I hope 
my decision  not to uphold this complaint  now explains everything  to Mr G and brings peace 
of mind as to why I consider Leeds Building  Society has acted  fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09878904
Ref: DRN0987890