K820x#14Complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Mr S. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  Canada Square sold Mr S 
the policy at the same  time that he applied for the card on the internet. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr S and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
I think Canada Square made Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it. The sale took place  on the internet, and there is good evidence that, as part of the 
application process, the customer had to make a choice  to either take PPI or not take it. 
The adjudicator said that Canada Square recommended  the PPI to Mr S. But I dont agree 
that it did, in the sense  of saying it fitted Mr Ss individual circumstances and needs.  Looking  
at the application process,  I think its clear that the PPI was being offered as something  for 
the customer to decide  about for themselves, and it was not a personalised recommendation 
for Mr S. This means  it was up to Mr S to decide  if the PPI was suitable to his needs and 
worth the cost.
However, even though  Ive reached a different  view on that point from the adjudicator, it 
doesnt make a difference to my overall  view of the complaint  or whether its fair for me to 
reach a conclusion now. I say this because,  even if the PPI had been recommended 
personally to Mr S, I think such a recommendation would have been a suitable one anyway. 
I say this because  the PPI could have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than 
Mr Ss employer  sick pay, and his other  resources for paying  his living expenses,  might  have 
lasted. And it would have  paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so 
leaving Mr S more  financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mr S wouldnt need to 
fall back on the other  resources so soon. So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable,  and I cant see any other reason why a recommendation 
would have been unsuitable.
The information Canada  Square gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But I dont  think, in his circumstances, full information about costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Ref: DRN02948062This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Canada Square  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr S about that. Because Canada  Square 
didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0294806