K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs L bought  the policy  in 1996  when she took out her credit card at a meeting with the 
bank. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mrs L disagrees.
Mrs L mainly says she was pressured into buying  and paying for PPI. And that she was told 
she had to take PPI to get the card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case. 
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
I cant know what was discussed at the meeting with the bank. Mrs L said she was told she 
had to take the PPI to get the card and she wanted the card because she was going  on 
holiday. Theres a note on the application form saying the card was needed by 8 August. 
The application was dated 17 July. So, it seems  Mrs L was in a hurry to get the card.
NatWest has sent us a copy of Mrs Ls signed  credit card application form. This shows  that 
there were Yes and No options  for PPI.
Mrs L has signed in the box next to where it says: Yes, I would like to take advantage of the 
peace of mind offered by Credit  Card Repayment  Protector (this is what NatWest  called the 
PPI it was offering).
In order to uphold  his complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mrs L wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added  to her account without her consent.  Where theres only 
limited information about  what  happened, I have to look at everything and decide what  I think  
is most  likely. I havent seen enough  to persuade me that Mrs L was pressurised  into taking 
out the PPI. On balance, I think its just as likely that NatWest made Mrs L aware  that the 
PPI was optional  and she chose to have  it as she wanted to protect her monthly repayments. 
Its completely understandable that, so many years  later, Mrs L may not remember  this. 
So, I cant fairly uphold  Mrs Ls complaint on this ground.
Although NatWest didnt  recommend the PPI, it still had to make  sure that Mrs L had enough  
information to make a proper decision  about  whether PPI was right for her. Looking  at her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. I say this because:
Mrs L was eligible for the cover.
Ref: DRN02737612Mrs L couldnt remember if she wouldve got any sick pay from work. But, said that 
her mum  wouldve helped with her repayments if she was out of work. She said she 
thought she had critical illness and life cover  through her employer too. I accept  that 
her mum  may have wanted  to help with her repayments, but help of this kind cant  
always be guaranteed when the times comes,  so I dont place much reliance on this. 
I can see that Mrs Ls other means or cover  meant that the policy  was inappropriate 
for her. 
Its possible some of the information  NatWest gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  Mrs L wasnt affected  by any of the usual exclusions and limitations that 
mightve limited her ability to make  a successful claim, such as having a pre-existing medical  
condition. So, even  if this wasnt  mentioned,  I dont  think  that knowing more  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mrs Ls decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs L when  she bought the policy. But, I cant 
see that it was unaffordable. So I dont think better information wouldve put her off buying  
the PPI. 
I think Mrs L still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as it gave 
her useful protection in her particular situation.  This means NatWest  doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because  NatWest  didnt tell Mrs L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mrs L any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0273761