K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that a car he was financing through an agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was not of satisfactory  quality and he also doesnt 
want to pay the final balloon payment.
Mr N is represented in his complaint  by his relative.  However, for simplicity I have  referred to 
all submissions from Mr Ns representative  as being made by Mr N.
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2018.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Ns complaint in part. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr N took receipt of a new car in August 2014. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. 
But in January 2018 the car broke  down on the motorway  and was recovered to the 
dealership. Mr N said he was told there  was extensive damage  to the engine. The car is still 
with the dealership who has refused to diagnose the problem. He says that when the car 
broke down  in October of the previous year, and the oil pump was replaced, the business 
should have paid for that repair as the dealership told him there was a manufacturing fault 
with the car. 
He also complains that VWFS have  now asked him to pay the final balloon payment on his 
finance agreement. But he says hes regularly told them that this payment is optional and he 
doesnt want to pay it or keep the vehicle.
VWFS said that they were only responsible  for faults that were present at the point of supply. 
They said that Mr N would  need  to demonstrate that a fault,  that happened four years after 
hed taken receipt of the car, was there  at inception and they didnt think  hed done that. So 
they didnt think  they needed  to pay for any repair.  They said theyd asked Mr N what  he 
wanted to do at the end of the contract and had explained his options to him but he hadnt 
got back to them. So VWFS said he now needed to pay the final balloon payment in line with 
the terms of his contract with them.
Mr N wasnt happy with VWFSs response so he referred his complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator provided his opinion. He didnt  think  the business  had been wrong not to 
diagnose the problem with the car because he noted it was out of warranty  and Mr N would 
need to authorise  (and pay for) any diagnosis. He thought that, given the time that had 
passed, it was Mr Ns responsibility to demonstrate the fault the vehicle now had was there 
from the beginning and was therefore VWFSs responsibility. But he didnt think  Mr N had 
provided evidence  to show that and as the term of the contract had now expired  he 
explained that the balloon  payment  was now due. 
Mr N didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said he had told the business he didnt want  to 
purchase the car and he insisted that the dealership had told him the oil pump was a 
manufacturing problem  and not his responsibility. He asked that we listen to the calls hed 
had with the dealership in which he insisted they told him this. And he asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN09393762my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree with the adjudicators view about whether the car was faulty  at the point of 
supply I dont currently agree that Mr N should have to pay the balloon  payment. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr N acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS who are also the supplier of the car are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr N. I note that 
this was a new car when  supplied.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.  
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
VWFS are right to suggest that legislation  would encourage us to assume that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
Ref: DRN09393763Here the fault happened after three  and a half years and after the car had completed 30,000 
miles.  Given what Ive been  told about the nature of the fault, I think  it unlikely that the car 
would have been able to have completed  this mileage over this period of time if it was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.
The dealership has suggested that the problem may be that the car has been starved of oil 
and that may be because  the previous repair completed in October  2017,  was inadequate.  
But until the diagnosis  is completed well not have  a definitive answer. 
In the absence of any further information  I think it would be unfair to suggest  VWFS  were  
responsible. For that to be the case I would have  to have evidence  the fault was there,  or 
developing, at the point  of supply and Ive not been  provided with sufficient evidence  that 
was the case.
And even  if the problem  did relate  to a previous  inadequate repair  I dont think Mr N has 
provided evidence  that the repair was the result  of a problem that was developing or present 
at the point of supply  either. Im persuaded it most  probably wasnt as:
the business hasnt  got copies of calls in which Mr N says he was told the fault was 
a manufacturing  defect
the diagnostic report for the oil pump  replacement says maximum engine speed 
exceeded the date of the fault code is 1 October  2017  and whilst theres no report 
to say this was the cause of the oil pump fault,  it is evidence that the maximum 
engine speed  appears to have been exceeded  and I think  thats  likely to have 
caused issues  because the fault code goes on to state  engine warranty  void
I think if Mr N had thought the oil pump issue was a manufacturing defect, he 
wouldve been  likely to ask for the repair costs to be reimbursed  but he didnt
So I dont  think I have  evidence to suggest the problems the car has experienced were 
present or developing at the point  of supply. 
the balloon payment
VWFS told me:
As the contract end date came and went without any notification  of a desire to handback  the 
vehicle, the balloon payment became due as per the terms and conditions  of the agreement.
But I disagree as Mr Ns contract says:  
2.4 When  you have made all payments due under this agreement you will have the option 
of purchasing the vehicle. You may exercise this by paying to us the option to purchase  
feeuntil you have  exercised this option  the vehicle will remain our property. Your  
entitlement to exercise this option will cease on termination of this agreement.
Ive not seen any evidence in VWFSs contact notes that he has responded to their request 
to tell them if he wants to buy the car. And as hes not paid the option to purchase fee I think 
its clear that Mr N currently hasnt expressed  a desire to purchase.
It may well be a cheaper option  than returning the car to VWFS and paying arrears and 
damages but that is for Mr N to decide and I think its fair for VWFS to give him that choice. 
Ref: DRN09393764my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not currently expecting to uphold  Mr Ns complaint that 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality. But I am expecting to tell Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited that they shouldnt insist Mr N exercises his option  to purchase the vehicle. 
Instead they must allow him to return  it.  
my findings
VWFS didnt  provide  any further information  but Mr N provided a detailed  response for which 
I thank him.
He said:
he did tell the garage he would  authorise  the diagnosis.  A fee wasnt mentioned 
and he was surprised  a diagnostic hadnt been  completed  20 months  later;
he suggested that VWFS  had not completed the diagnostic as they knew the 
problem related to the oil pump  failure and he suggested he was told so much 
by the garage;
he was concerned about VWFS not having the call records  he referred to and 
suggested this was not proof  that the conversations  didnt exist but was proof 
that the business  didnt  wish this service to have  the records;
he said I was wrong to suggest he didnt pursue the costs  of the oil pump work 
and he referred me to evidence hed provided;
he said that as hed shown the oil pump  problem to be a manufacturing defect it 
followed that subsequent issues existed at the point of supply also.
So Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been persuaded by Mr Ns further submissions that there  is sufficient evidence  to 
suggest the engine fault the car is now suffering from has been developing from the point of 
supply or was a result  of a fault (the oil pump failure) that was developing at the point of supply.
Legislation suggests that after such a prolonged period of time it is for the consumer to 
demonstrate the problem  was most  probably there  from the beginning.  Whilst Mr N has been able 
to provide some further information it hasnt  persuaded me that the car could have completed the 
mileage it had if the fault was present or developing at the start of the arrangement. 
I understand that important telephone calls may be missing but I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest the lack of the calls was incriminating evidence in itself. Theyre  simply missing. And 
in the absence of them, or more tangible expert evidence  to support the fact that a fault, that 
developed four years after Mr N took receipt  of the car, could have been developing at the 
point of supply,  Im afraid I dont support this part of his complaint.
But I havent seen  evidence from VWFS that changes my mind about the balloon  payment 
and I therefore  think they should  not insist Mr N pays the balloon payment and give him the 
option to return  the car if he choses.
Ref: DRN09393765my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold Mr Ns complaint that the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality.  But I do tell Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited  that they 
shouldnt insist Mr N exercises his option to purchase the vehicle. Instead they must allow 
him to return  it if he choses.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0939376