K821x#15complaint
Miss P says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat irresponsibly lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about six loans Cashfloat  provided to Miss P between  July 2017 and March  
2018. A summary  of Miss Ps borrowing history is set out below.
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 12/07/2017 07/08/2017 3 £500.00 £233.19
2 18/09/2017 06/10/2017 4 £700.00 £304.20
3 31/10/2017 03/11/2017 3 £700.00 £347.39
4 30/12/2017 05/02/2018 3 £800.00 £397.80
5 04/03/2018 23/03/2018 4 £1,000.00 £394.00
6 24/03/2018 29/03/2018 3 £800.00 £414.55
Miss P said in summary  that Cashfloat did not verify her income and that the low monthly 
outgoings she had declared should  have been a cause for further investigation. She said 
she had many other short-term lending  commitments  and was desperate  for money,  so left 
out the true extent of her other  debt repayments.  And she says it should have been clear  the 
loans were unaffordable and had proper checks  been carried  out, this would have  been  
evident. 
In its final response to Miss P, Cashfloat  told Miss P that each application had been decided 
on its own merits and that it had carried out a thorough review of her account. This included  
a creditworthiness  and affordability assessment on each application Miss P had made. It 
said these checks demonstrated  that Miss P had sufficient funds to comfortably cover  the 
agreed repayments on each of the loans. It also noted that the loans were repaid early  and 
in full and that there were regular breaks in Miss Ps lending cycle. It did not uphold  Miss Ps 
complaint.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ps complaint  and thought loans 5 and 6 should  be upheld.  She 
said that proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Miss P was having 
problems managing her money. Cashfloat should have realised that Miss P was unlikely to 
have been able to sustainably repay this loan. Miss P responded saying that she still 
believed that most,  if not all of the loans  were unaffordable based on the fact that Cashfloat  
had access to her credit  report which would have shown that she was constantly borrowing 
more than her income from short term lenders before, during and after every single loan was 
given. But she said she was happy  to accept the view. Cashfloat didnt respond so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN05624262Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint. Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold loans  1-4. But Ive decided to uphold loans 5 and 6. I will explain why.
Cashfloat said it had done various  checks before it lent to Miss P. These checks included  
affordability and creditworthiness assessments. It says this would have shown that the loans 
were likely affordable.
On balance, I dont  think I can safely say that Cashfloat failed  to do enough when it was 
making its assessment  about the first four loans. At this time Miss P was a new customer 
and she was in the early  stages of her relationship with Cashfloat. In the circumstances of 
this case, I think on balance it was reasonable for Cashfloat to rely on the information Miss P 
provided when  they gave  her loans 1,2 and 3 and 4. I also dont think its own checks  likely 
revealed that Miss P was having difficulties in managing  her money at the time it gave her 
the loans or might have prompted  it into asking  for further information.
Ref: DRN05624263Cashfloat did the same checks  and asked the same  questions  when it gave Miss P loan 5 
and 6 as it had done when it gave Miss P loans 1-4. But I think it should have carried out 
further checks and taken more steps to verify Miss Ps income  and expenditure.
Ive explained  above that although a loan may appear affordable  on a pounds  and pence  
basis it doesnt necessarily mean  that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income  or savings.
Ive seen some of the statements  from the time. If Cashfloat had done further checks I think  
it would  likely have seen  that Miss P had numerous  other short-term  lending obligations 
together with other debts. I dont think  it was reasonable for Cashfloat  to conclude that 
Miss P was going  to be able to repay her debt in a sustainable manner when it gave her 
loans 5 and 6.
Miss P continued to borrow  when she took out loan 6. Cashfloat ought to have done the 
same type of checks as I have indicated for loan 5. Had it done so I think  it would likely have 
seen a similar pattern and therefore  wouldnt have  agreed to provide Miss P with this loan 
either.
Cashfloat says Miss P repaid her loans early which demonstrated they were  affordable  for 
her. But the fact she did repay her loans early does not mean she did so from sustainable 
sources. And if shed  had to borrow from elsewhere  to meet  her repayments - which  I think 
could be more likely looking at the statements from the time; this would suggest  that this 
borrowing wasnt sustainable.  
 
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5 and 6 and Cashfloat  should put things  
right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss P paid on loans 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 5 and 6 from Miss Ps credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Miss P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Miss Ps complaint. Western Circle Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Ref: DRN05624264Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0562426