K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr D represent their interest  in a Contracts for Differences (CFD)  trading account 
that was held with GKFX  Financial Services Limited  (GKFX).  Their complaint is that GKFX 
unfairly closed the account, delayed in refunding the capital deposit from the account and 
unfairly withheld profits in the account.  They are/were legally represented.
background
GKFX wrote to Mrs and Mr Ds solicitor on 28 August  2018  to confirm remittance of the 
capital deposit  and to confirm closure  of the account in accordance with clause 39 of its 
terms and conditions. In response, their solicitor queried remittance of outstanding trading 
profits from the account. GKFX replied and said it had reviewed trading strategies in the 
account and considered that those strategies were an abuse  of its services and in breach  of 
its terms and conditions  for trading. On this basis, it decided to withhold the trading profits.
Mrs and Mr D did not accept this outcome. The complaint  was referred  to this service and 
one of our adjudicators looked into it. Mr D made  a number  of key submissions that featured, 
in the main, the arguments that GKFX  had not substantiated its allegations and that 
reasonable analysis of the account (and trading within it) does not support the allegations.
Over a number of views and upon cross  correspondence with the sides,  the adjudicator 
concluded that the complaint should  not be upheld. She noted that the terms and conditions 
for the account  reserved GKFXs discretion  and right to close  the account as it did  so it did 
nothing wrong  in this respect. In terms of the withheld trading profits, she also referred  to the 
terms and conditions  section 34, which prohibits trading related to market  abuse, and 
section 15 which reserved  GKFXs discretion and right to void trades that may have been 
based on pricing manifest errors,  latent prices  or force  majeure. The adjudicator  referred to 
trading examples within the account  which she considered sufficient to prompt GKFXs 
suspicion that trading  in the account may have been  based on latent pricing  hence  its 
decision to void the trades  and withhold  the trading profits.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome and stressed  that the adjudicators conclusion was not 
sufficiently thorough, that there was a lack of evidence to support it and that he was not 
satisfied evidence had been sufficiently shared with him and Mrs D. The adjudicator 
explained that she had considered the submissions  and information provided  by both sides 
and that she had shared them with Mrs and Mr D in her correspondence of 16 and 19 
November 2018,  and of 8 January 2019. She clarified that her focus  had to be placed on the 
crux of the complaint  which was whether (or not) GKFX  was entitled to do what it did and 
whether (or not) Mrs and Mr D had been treated fairly. The adjudicator  considered that her 
views had addressed  these issues. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too have considered the submissions and information provided by both sides.  
I consider that the adjudicator provided  information  and analysis  in the correspondence she 
specified. 
Ref: DRN06397072The most recent referred to monitoring evidence from GKFX which showed trading in the 
account being at an unfair  advantage  above  the average  relevant  trading price(s). It also 
referred to section 39 of the terms and conditions which  gave GKFX the right to terminate 
the account upon suspicion  of market abuse  and/or other listed  prohibited  forms of trading. 
The adjudicator enclosed an example of trades from the account which GKFX considered 
sufficient to raise suspicion. The adjudicators earlier/initial view of 16 November 2018 was 
more detailed and reflected information about  the sequence of events and the issues that led 
to closure of the account (and withholding of the trading profits). It did this in the context of 
the relevant terms  and conditions for the account  which permitted GKFX to act as it did on 
the basis of the trading related evidence that it had. The adjudicators email of 19 November 
2018 featured some historical trading data which suggested trading on prices that did not 
reflect the underlying market price  and/or automated  trading designed to abuse  the market.
I have taken on board the arguments  and responses  submitted  by Mr D. Amongst  them, he 
challenged the suggestions about  arbitrage trading on his and Mrs Ds part and said 
evidence did not support  it; he asserted  that  winning 63% to 71% of total trades  done  
does not support the notion  of any unfair  practice; he maintained that semi-automated 
trading is  a commonly used thing; he said GKFX advertises the benefit  of lower latency 
in its VPS servers; and he disputed that trading was done on prices that were not 
representative of market prices.
I understand the arguments that Mr D has made. I consider that the salient point that the 
arguments do not appear to address is the effect  and application  of the agreed  terms and 
conditions for the account. It appears that Mr D expects the matter to be determined on a 
proof or evidence related basis that is higher than the basis which  the agreed terms and 
conditions provide for. As explained in the adjudicators  correspondence  and as mentioned 
above, the agreed terms essentially  only require  a reasonable suspicion by GKFX   not 
overwhelming or irrefutable proof. Under  section  15 trades could even be voided where they 
may have been based on manifest  errors, latent prices or force majeure.  
Based on the relevant terms and conditions,  GKFX  was not required to prove its suspicion to 
the extent that Mrs and Mr D appear  to expect. I make no comment on whether their 
expectation is or is not reasonable.  The point is that the terms and conditions  for the 
account, which they agreed, primarily applied irrespective of their expectation. In order to 
take the steps it took, GKFX only needed  a reasonable suspicion and/or indication that latent 
pricing may have been used for trades or that monitoring results  for trades suggested  
market abuse.  It is arguably within this remit to even consider that the success rate of 63 - 
71% that Mr D concedes could have been   or appears to have been - viewed as 
suspicious. I have  considered available  evidence  such  as those reflected in the 
adjudicators views  and I too conclude that there was enough to prompt  GKFXs suspicion. 
That suspicion appears to have been  enough, under the terms and conditions, to justify the 
action it took  from closing the account to withholding the trading profits.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06397073
Ref: DRN0639707