K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide  Building Society  incorrectly advised her that her ISA was 
a Help  to Buy ISA - and shes lost out on a government  bonus as a result.
background
Miss M opened a Save to Buy ISA with Nationwide in August 2014. In December 2015 
Miss M visited  a branch to check whether her current  ISA was the same as the 
Help to Buy ISA - and if it was part of a government bonus scheme. She said Nationwide  
confirmed it was - and the Save  to Buy ISA had been rebranded and renamed.  She also 
says Nationwide  told her she had a Help to Buy ISA on further  occasions,  so she believed 
she was eligible for the bonus.
In August  2018  Miss M called Nationwide to book an appointment to see a mortgage advisor 
and was told she could  apply for a mortgage on a freehold flat. But when she attended the 
appointment she was told this was incorrect. She later found a different property and 
attended another appointment in December 2018.
In January 2019 Miss M closed her ISA. She called Nationwide a couple  of weeks  later as 
she hadnt received  the closing statement needed  to claim the government  bonus. 
Nationwide told her they didnt send out closing statements  for Save  to Buy ISAs  and this 
was a different  product from a Help to Buy ISA  so wasnt  part of any government bonus 
scheme.
Nationwide said theyd  incorrectly  told Miss M she could apply for a mortgage  on a freehold  
flat. They  also said it was likely there were occasions Miss M had been  incorrectly  informed 
she had a Help to Buy ISA, but it was her responsibility to familiarise herself with the terms 
and conditions of her account   which shed agreed  to when she opened it.
They offered  £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by any poor 
service - and £15 to reimburse Miss Ws travel costs  for the mortgage appointment.
Miss M was unhappy with this. So she brought her complaint  to our service. Our investigator 
said Nationwide made a fair offer to put things  right and recommended they didnt need to do 
anything else.
Miss M didnt agree so the complaint  has now been passed to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05680762Miss M opened her Save to Buy ISA around a year before the Help to Buy ISA scheme was 
launched. She said Nationwide told her the ISA was rebranded  and renamed  in December 
2015.  I need to decide  whether  Nationwide gave Miss M enough information to be 
reasonably aware  she still held a Save  to Buy ISA - and that it was a different product from 
the Help to Buy ISA. I think they did, so Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I know  this will 
be disappointing but Ill explain why.
Nationwide has provided a copy of a letter sent to Save to Buy ISA customers  in 
December 2015.The letter includes some information about the Save  to Buy ISA, but it 
doesnt say its linked  to any government bonus. Underneath this are details about the Help 
to Buy ISA  and it says its an ISA where  customers could qualify for a potential  government 
bonus. So I think the letter clearly sets out theyre  two separate  products. Nationwide  also 
sent Miss M annual summaries of all of her savings  products between  2015 and 2018 and I 
can see all of the summaries call the account in question  Save to Buy rather than 
Help to Buy.
I do think there were occasions  where Nationwide couldve  given  Miss M clearer  information. 
There arent notes of the conversations Miss M had with Nationwide  in branch.  But when 
Miss M called to book  a mortgage appointment in August 2018 the advisor queried whether 
Miss M had a Help to Buy ISA  and she corrected him to say it was a Save to Buy ISA. The 
advisor then said their systems always say Help to Buy ISA for this sort of application- and 
internally theyre the same thing. Although the advisor was referring to how it appears on 
their system, I can see why this might have caused  confusion about whether the products 
were the same.
But I also looked at the notes of the meeting Miss M attended with a Nationwide mortgage 
advisor in December 2018.  I can see the advisor  told Miss M she held a Save  to Buy ISA 
and this meant she was eligible for a bonus  of around £1,000. But I cant see they discussed 
a Help to Buy ISA or a government bonus   or that Miss M asked the advisor about it.
So I think Nationwide did enough to make Miss M reasonably aware  she held a 
Save to Buy ISA  and it was a separate product from the Help to Buy ISA.
Nationwide said their advisor told Miss M she had a Help to Buy ISA when she went into the 
branch to close the ISA  but she was closing it. So I dont think this makes  a difference.
Miss M was also told she would be able to apply for a freehold mortgage and she travelled 
an hour so she could attend the earliest  available appointment. So I can understand her 
frustration to find out that shed been  given incorrect information. 
But taking into account all of the circumstances I think Nationwides offer is fair and 
reasonable. So I wont be asking them to do anything else.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint.  So I wont  be asking 
Nationwide Building  Society to do anything else.
Ref: DRN05680763Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0568076