K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained on behalf of herself  and her husband, Mr D, about their home  insurer  
Great Lakes Insurance SE. Its declined a claim they made  for a water damaged carpet.
background
On 14 May 2018 Mrs D noticed some staining on her living  room  carpet.  She contacted 
Great Lakes,  told it about the damage and that she believed it had been caused by a storm. 
Great Lakes told Mrs D that she should have an expert consider what  had caused the 
damage. It checked  weather records and found  there hadnt been  a storm. Mrs D didnt have  
accidental damage  cover on her policy.
Great Lakes was then provided with two reports.  The first confirmed water got in under the 
patio door where  there was no seal. The second said that during  a rain storm water  had 
entered through an airbrick. The second  report confirmed this was likely a one-off event 
because the gripper rods hadnt  been significantly damaged such  as they needed replacing. 
Great Lakes declined the claim as it felt the damage had either been caused by poor 
workmanship (the missing patio door seal) and/or because water  had likely been getting in 
for some time. Mrs D was unhappy and complained to us. 
Our investigator, having  double checked  the weather  records,  noted that there hadnt been a 
storm in the days before  Mrs D noticed  the damage. He explained that something covered 
by the policy  had to have  happened to cause damage. He said, on balance,  he felt Great 
Lakes decline was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs D remained  unhappy. She said the damage  might have happened any time between 
January and May 2018 because the room hadnt been used in that time.  Our investigator 
explained that an identifiable event  had to have occurred, otherwise it wasnt possible to say 
that something the policy covers had most likely  caused the damage. Mrs D asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret  for any upset this causes Mrs D in the current 
circumstances, I find my view to be the same as that expressed  by the investigator. Im not 
minded to make Great Lakes accept Mrs Ds claim.
Most insurance policies,  as does this one, offer cover against damage caused by certain 
events. For damage to be covered it has to be seen that one of the insured events has most  
likely occurred and that the damage  in question has most likely resulted from that specific  
event.
Mrs D has an expert  opinion  that says the damage occurred during a single incident of a 
heavy rain storm. The expert is a carpet fitter. Whilst I think  he can reasonably determine 
how and why a carpet  has been  damaged, he isnt an expert  on whether a storm occurred or 
not. Or more particularly  when, in insurance  terms, heavy rain is or isnt considered to be a 
storm. 
Ref: DRN00994272Mrs Ds policy offers cover against  damage  caused by a storm. A storm in the insurance 
industry is taken to be high winds accompanied by rain hail and/or snow,  or where rain, hail 
and/or snow occurring without any winds is unusually excessive. The highest  wind-speed  
recorded in the days before Mrs D noticed the damaged carpet was 39 miles an hour and 
the heaviest rainfall (which occurred on a day with no wind)  was 5.2 mm in one hour.  Based 
on that detail I think  Great Lakes view, as expressed in its file notes, that there hadnt been  
a storm is fair and reasonable. 
I know Mrs D has said the damage might have occurred before she first noticed it. But it isnt 
reasonable to expect  Great Lakes  to search  for weeks  or months  beforehand  on the basis 
that a storm might have  occurred at some point. Damage being noted at one point and a 
storm having occurred  at another doesnt mean  the one necessarily  caused  the other.
I think Great Lakes could  have explained  things better to Mrs D though. Instead of explaining 
to Mrs D that there hadnt been a storm, which meant there  was no cover, it opted to say the 
damage, in its view,  had most  likely been  caused by events not covered by the policy  in 
fact ones that are specifically excluded. I think being  told that there  hadnt  been a storm 
would have been easier for Mrs D to accept. And she wouldnt have needed to get formal 
reports to show what had caused the damage.
I think that Mrs D would always  have  needed to have obtained opinions from relevant 
contractors as to what  was causing the problem. Regardless of whether the damage was 
covered or not, Mrs D needed  to make  sure it couldnt occur again. But the formal reports 
wouldnt have been necessary. As Great Lakes asked for these even despite knowing there 
was no cover available as there hadnt been a storm, I asked  Mrs D if shed been charged 
for the reports.  Shes  confirmed  she wasnt. Therefore,  I dont think that the way Great  
Lakes chose to handle this claim caused Mrs D any inconvenience  or financial loss. And 
I think the claim being declined, regardless of the reason, was always going to be upsetting 
for Mrs D and nothing could reasonably have avoided that.  
Mrs Ds request in her complaint to this service was that Great  Lakes be made  to replace her 
carpet. Im satisfied that, for the reasons set out above, Great Lakes decision to decline the 
claim was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Great Lakes Insurance  SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0099427