K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that it was irresponsible for MBNA Limited to lend to her.
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by a relative.  But, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2020, a copy of which is attached  as it forms part 
of this final decision.
Mrs W hasnt  made  any further comments. MBNA responded to the provisional decision and 
maintained that they had lent responsibly.  
MBNA say that the increases they offered to Mrs W were responsible  in the overall  context 
of her financial position. They say this is borne out by the fact that she has paid minimal 
interest since the accounts were opened.  And they say she has maintained all of her credit 
facilities with no missed  payments or any evidence of financial difficulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken MBNAs comments into 
account and considered everything again. But I havent seen anything which changes my 
mind about  the appropriate outcome here.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I didnt think the credit was affordable at the time 
it was offered to Mrs W - based on her overall  financial  position. In particular, I thought her 
overall level of indebtedness compared to her income was relevant here. I havent seen 
anything which changes  my mind about that.
Mrs W has paid only a small amount of interest  since the accounts were opened. If shed 
paid more interest, its likely the impact  on her finances would have been greater. But what 
Im looking  at here is whether Mrs W could afford  the credit which  was offered to her at the 
time. And, even with the interest-free promotion, I still dont think the credit  was affordable. 
Mrs W needed to be able to repay  the credit limit within a reasonable period of time, without 
undue difficulty,  while continuing to meet other commitments and without having to borrow 
further. I dont think that was borne  out by the overall picture of her finances  at the time of 
her applications.
As to the fact that Mrs W has maintained her accounts, she says thats because her 
husband has been making  the payments for her. But the accounts are in Mrs Ws sole name. 
So the issue  here is whether the credit  offered to Mrs W was affordable  to her at the time of 
her applications.  I dont think it was, for the reasons above and in my provisional decision.  
The fact that her husband has been  able to help with payments doesnt change  my mind 
about that.
So Im still not satisfied that the lending was affordable at the time it was offered.
Ref: DRN08955722my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I uphold 
this complaint. My final decision is that MBNA Limited should:
refund  all interest applied to Mrs Ws accounts to date and offset it against the 
outstanding balance;
freeze the accounts so that no further spending can take place; and
pay compensation of £100 to Mrs W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020..
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08955723copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that it was irresponsible for MBNA Limited to lend to her.
Mrs W is represented  in this complaint by a relative.  But for ease of reading Ill refer to all submissions  
as being made by her directly.
background
Mrs W has two credit  cards  with MBNA. In 2018, she contacted them to complain  that they hadnt 
made enough checks  when she applied for the cards. She said theyd been irresponsible in lending to 
her because of other debts  she had at the time of her applications. She said the lending wasnt 
affordable and she asked MBNA to write  off the outstanding  balances.  Mrs Ws husband has been  
making regular payments to the accounts on her behalf.
MBNA didnt uphold  the complaint. They said they assessed both applications separately and carried  
out checks  each time. They said theyd relied on data from the credit reference agencies as well as 
information provided  by Mrs W herself. They thought theyd done enough checks and that their 
decisions to approve Mrs Ws applications had been correct.
Mrs W wasnt happy with MBNAs response, so she asked  this service to look into it. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She didnt think MBNA should have approved either of the credit card 
applications because  she didnt think the lending  was affordable for Mrs W. She recommended that 
the accounts be frozen so that no further spending could take place. And she thought that any interest 
which had been applied to the accounts should be refunded and offset  against the outstanding  
balances.
But Mrs W didnt accept our investigators findings. She said she hasnt paid any interest because the 
cards were on an interest free promotion.  She thought that MBNA should  face a financial penalty.  
And she didnt think it was fair that her husband  was paying off the outstanding  balance.
MBNA also disagreed  with our investigators findings. They said theyd carried  out a thorough 
assessment using customer indebtedness tools and affordability assessments as well as reviewing 
the information from the credit reference  agencies  and Mrs W herself. They  thought their assessment 
of the applications was fair and that they hadnt lent irresponsibly.
Because the parties didnt accept our investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
What I need to look at here is whether  Mrs W could afford the credit at the time her applications were  
approved. I realise  that Mrs Ws financial position may have changed since she applied for the cards,  
but MBNA made their decision to lend on the information which was available  at the time of the 
applications. So Im looking at what they knew about Mrs Ws financial position at that time.
MBNA needed to check whether Mrs W would be able to repay  the credit in a way which  was 
sustainable and which wouldnt adversely  affect her financial situation. That means she needed to be 
able to repay  the credit  limit within a reasonable period of time, without undue  difficulty, while being 
able to meet  other  commitments and without having to borrow further. 
Ref: DRN08955724There arent set checks which  MBNA had to make. But Id expect  them to have carried out checks 
which were  proportionate to things like the amount of credit  being applied for, the information  provided 
by Mrs W, her lending history and anything they already  knew about her. And Id usually expect the 
checks to be more thorough the lower the customers income.  
MBNA say they completed a thorough check of Mrs Ws financial situation.  They  say the information 
from the credit reference  agencies showed no signs of delinquency and that Mrs W was in a sound 
financial position in relation  to indebtedness, affordability, credit usage and stability. At the time of the 
second application, they say that Mrs W was consistently  reducing the balance  on the first card. They 
say she wasnt showing  any sign of financial hardship  at the time of either application and that there 
was nothing to cause them concern. 
MBNA didnt carry  out an income and expenditure assessment at the application stage. They say that 
the other information they had meant it wasnt necessary because they had determined  whether  Mrs 
W was at risk of financial hardship.
Im satisfied that MBNA carried out checks at the time of each application. But Im not convinced  that 
they did enough checks in the circumstances here or that the decision to lend was fair based on what 
they knew  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
MBNA say the information they obtained showed that Mrs W appeared to be managing her finances 
well and keeping  on top of her debts.  But that doesnt necessarily mean  that further lending  will be 
affordable or sustainable. The overall  level of Mrs Ws indebtedness compared  with her income  is 
also relevant.  At the time of each application, the amount Mrs W already owed  on other credit cards, 
loans and hire purchase agreements was around twice the amount of her salary. That was in addition 
to her mortgage borrowing. So, even if the existing  debts  appeared to be well managed, there does 
come a point  where  the level of debt cant keep  being  increased without consequences. From  what  
Ive seen so far, I think  more  checks should have been completed at the time of Mrs Ws applications. 
MBNA needed to look at the overall picture as well as the scores and data produced  by their 
assessment tools. On that basis, Im not satisfied that the credit appeared affordable at the time it was 
offered to Mrs W. And if it wasnt  affordable, it shouldnt  have been offered. It put Mrs W in a worse  
financial position by increasing her indebtedness  and placing a greater call on her income. 
Mrs W says shes struggling to keep  on top of the payments and has only managed to do so with help 
from her husband. MBNA say that Mrs W isnt showing any signs of financial hardship as shes 
maintaining the payments  on her account.  They  acknowledge thats down to help from her husband. 
But they say that every household  runs its finances differently and that, together, Mrs W and her 
husband appear financially stable. But I dont think that adequately answers the question  of whether 
the lending was affordable  at the time of the applications. And these  arent joint accounts. 
I think  MBNA should have done more checks at the time of lending. And Im not satisfied that the 
information which was available at the time pointed to the lending  being affordable.  So Im planning  to 
uphold this complaint.
I understand there is currently an outstanding balance  on one of the cards. Im not going  to ask MBNA 
to write  it off, because Mrs W has had the benefit of that money.  But I think  any interest which Mrs W 
has incurred should be refunded. MBNA have confirmed  that interest of around £25 has been applied  
to one of the accounts. That should be refunded and offset against the outstanding balance. And I 
think the accounts  should  be frozen so that no further spending can take place. I understand  there 
hasnt been any negative impact on Mrs Ws credit file so Im not planning to make a direction about 
that here.
Mrs W has said she thinks a financial penalty should be imposed  on MBNA. Our awards arent 
intended to punish a business but rather to reflect the impact a situations  had on a customer and put 
that right,  so far as possible. So Im not going to impose penalty. But I do think MBNA need to pay 
Mrs W some compensation  to reflect  the fact that I dont think  the lending  should have been approved 
Ref: DRN08955725and to reflect the impact its had on her financial situation. I think £100  would be an appropriate 
amount here.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties  which  
changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct MBNA 
Limited to:
refund all interest applied to Mrs Ws accounts to date and offset it against the outstanding  
balance;
freeze the accounts so that no further  spending can take place; and
pay compensation of £100 to Mrs W.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0895572