K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax decided to end their banking 
relationship with him.
background 
Mr H had a current account  with Halifax which had an agreed  overdraft facility in place. In 
late 2018, he wanted to withdraw  some cash.  As he doesnt use his debit  card, he went into 
a Halifax branch with his passport to do this. The Halifax staff member  queried why Mr H 
was looking to withdraw funds in this way rather than using his debit card and PIN number. 
There followed an altercation  between  Mr H and the branch staff. Halifax say that Mr Hs 
behaviour in the branch  was abusive  and so they decided to withdraw his banking  facilities  
with immediate effect.
Mr H raised a complaint  with Halifax straight  away. They  wrote  to him a few days  later 
saying they stood by the decision to end their relationship with him. As the account  was 
overdrawn, Halifax said the outstanding balance needed to be repaid immediately and that 
they would  start the process  of transferring the account to their Recoveries department if it 
remained outstanding.  They said that Mr H would need to pay off the balance by making  
deposits at an alternative  branch.
Mr H wasnt happy about Halifaxs decision  so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator thought that Halifax should have  allowed Mr H to withdraw  cash  using his 
passport in the branch.  And, although  she thought  they were entitled to end their agreement 
with Mr H, she didnt think they had acted fairly by closing the account immediately. She 
recommended that they compensate Mr H by writing off the overdraft and paying him £50.
Halifax accepted  our adjudicators findings.  But Mr H didnt  agree.  He thought the amount of 
compensation should be higher and that Halifax should re-open  his account and re-instate 
the overdraft facility. The complaint has therefore  been passed to an ombudsman for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having weighed everything up, I think that Halifax were entitled  to end their agreement  with 
Mr H in the circumstances here.  The terms and conditions of the account  explain that they 
didnt have to give him notice. But the terms also say that, when ending the agreement,  
Halifax will act in a manner which they think is reasonably appropriate for the circumstances 
and they will try to reduce  the inconvenience  to Mr H. I dont think they did that here.
Their decision left him without access to funds, which he says caused him a great deal of 
stress. Im satisfied  that Halifax were aware of difficulties Mr H had been experiencing in the 
time before this incident.  And he had kept them  informed of his financial position. Their  
decision meant that the overdraft became repayable  straight  away,  but they knew this 
wouldnt be possible for him. And their requirement for him to go to another  branch to make 
payments is something  he would  find difficult and inconvenient. So I dont think they acted in 
a way which was appropriate or sympathetic to Mr Hs situation.
Ref: DRN02399592Although the terms and conditions allowed Halifax to end the relationship immediately and 
demand repayment of the overdraft, I think reliance on the terms and conditions alone  here 
led to an unfair outcome  for Mr H. So I think Halifax need to do something to put things right.  
Their decision has caused Mr H a great  deal of distress and inconvenience.  Hes in a worse 
position now than he was before they decided to close  his account and the implications for 
him are ongoing.
In reaching this view,  Ive taken into account  the fact that the terms and conditions of the 
account allow Mr H to withdraw funds at a branch by proving his identity with a passport. So 
I find it likely  that, if he had been able to make  the withdrawal in this way, the altercation 
wouldnt have taken  place. That, in turn, would mean that Halifax wouldnt have ended their 
relationship with Mr H in this way. But the fact they did meant  that his overdraft became 
repayable straight  away, instantly putting him in a worse financial position.  It doesnt seem 
fair that he should  be in that situation  when he had simply been trying to do something  which  
the terms of his account allow him to do.
So I think the fair outcome here is for Halifax to write off the overdraft and to pay Mr H 
compensation of £50. 
I realise that Mr H doesnt think thats  enough.  Understandably,  he feels very strongly  about  
his complaint and has raised a number of points. Ive carefully weighed  up all of these  points 
against the fact that hes also had the benefit of the money which  the overdraft provided. 
Halifax would usually  be fairly entitled  to ask Mr H as a customer  to repay what  hes 
borrowed. But I think writing off the overdraft, in the way our adjudicator suggested, puts 
Mr H in a fair position which recognises  the impact  of whats happened here. I think the 
additional £50 to recognise  the trouble and upset here is also a reasonable amount,  taking  
into account the circumstances.
Mr H also says that he wants  the account  to be re-opened and the overdraft  re-instated.  I 
dont think that would  be appropriate  here. I realise  thats what  Mr H would like, but I have to 
consider complaints impartially.  So I have to balance Mr Hs situation against the fact that 
Halifax were entitled  to end their relationship  with him. And its for them  as a business to 
decide who they want to deal with as customers. Ive addressed the unfair consequences for 
Mr H with the redress referred to above.  But Im not going to ask Halifax  to re-open Mr Hs 
account as I dont think that would be fair to them.
Finally, I understand  that Mr Hs account may have been passed  to Halifaxs  Recoveries 
department since  our adjudicator issued her opinion.  In line with what  our adjudicator  said 
and with what Ive decided, Halifax should  ensure that Mr Hs credit file hasnt been  
adversely affected  by their decision to close his account. If it has, they should arrange  for the 
adverse entries  to be removed.
   
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Bank of Scotland  
plc trading as Halifax should now:
write off Mr Hs overdraft;
pay compensation of £50 to Mr H; and
request the removal of any adverse  data about  the account which has been  recorded 
on Mr Hs credit  file since  28 November 2018.
Ref: DRN02399593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0239959