K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the disposal of his car after he made  a claim on his U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr D made  a claim on his motor insurance policy after he was involved in a road traffic 
accident. UKI accepted the claim and paid Mr D £4,600 on 30 October 2018 to settle the 
claim as it felt the car should be written-off (known as a total loss).  
UKI disposed of the car but Mr D said he didnt  give UKI permission to do this. Mr D says he 
wanted to dispose of it himself  he said he had already  verbally agreed the sale of the car 
to his friend for £2,500  so felt he had lost out financially because of UKIs error.  
UKI said Mr D didnt  tell them he wished to keep the car in any conversations they had with 
him. But UKI did say that due to human error it was logged that on the engineers  report that 
Mr D had agreed for UKI to dispose  of the car. Mr D said he had spoken to the engineer 
about disposing  of the car himself, but the engineer couldnt recall discussing this with Mr D. 
Due to the confusion and the error  on the report UKI offered Mr D £300  for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Our investigator considered the information provided  by UKI and Mr D. They thought  Mr D 
had been inconvenienced  because UKI could have  communicated  better. But they felt the 
offer made by UKI was fair because it was generally  in line with what  we would  award in 
similar circumstances to this complaint.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators view, so asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D feels he has financially  lost out due to UKI disposing of the car and not allowing him to 
purchase the salvage of the car so he could dispose  of it himself. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds policy say if his car is damaged the most UKI will pay is 
the market value at the time of the loss. It defines market value as the cost of replacing the 
car with one of the same  make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of 
the loss. Its a general principle of insurance that when a car is a total loss its salvage 
becomes the property  of the insurer. And the policy also says that once UKI settles a claim 
the car becomes its property.
We generally think its fair for an insurer to let a policyholder keep the salvage,  but we 
wouldnt expect them to make that offer unless asked by the policyholder. However, if that 
happens, the insurer will deduct the value  of the salvage from the total loss settlement 
amount.
Ref: DRN05675132Mr D complained that UKI didn't give him the option of keeping  his car. UKI accepted it 
would have given  him the option of doing  that but didnt realise he may want to keep it due to 
the error  on the report. Having considered UKIs internal notes Mr D told UKI that he wanted 
to keep the car on 31 October 2018 which was after the claim had been settled. Mr D said 
he told the engineers that he wanted to keep the salvage. So UKI checked with the 
engineers, who said they tried to contact Mr D but despite various  attempts couldnt get 
through to him  so as per the report they decided to dispose of the car. 
Im not persuaded Mr D told UKI that he wanted  to keep  the salvage  or agreed the sale of it 
before the claim was settled. I say this because I have been provided  call recordings of 
Mr Ds discussions  about the claim with UKI, on 01 October 2018, on listening to these 
recordings there is no conversation about Mr D having already agreed the sale of the car 
and wanting to keep the salvage. If Mr D had agreed to sell the car, even  verbally, I would 
have expected him to mention this to UKI in this conversation, or at least  at some point 
before the claim was settled on 30 October 2018. 
The policy allows  UKI to take ownership of the salvage  once a claim is settled. So, I dont 
think it did anything wrong in disposing of the car, as Im not persuaded Mr D had told it he 
wanted to keep it. In any event, even if I accepted, he had told the engineer, UKIs already 
offered £300 for distress  and inconvenience. And this is similar to what  Id be awarding if Id 
found UKI shouldnt have  sold the car without asking him, because  Im not persuaded Mr D 
had agreed a sale for it. 
my final decision
I understand U K Insurance  Limited  has offered Mr D £300  to compensate for his distress  
and inconvenience.  I conclude this offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances so my 
final decision  is that U K Insurance Limited  should pay Mr D £300 for distress  and 
inconvenience if it hasnt  already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0567513