K820x#14complaint
The late Mrs Ss representatives complain about the advice  that was given  to her by Adviser  
Business Solutions  Ltd (ABS) to purchase an Immediate Needs Care Annuity  in 2014. The 
representatives do not believe that the advice was appropriate given Mrs Ss age and health 
at the time. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2020. A copy is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the provisional decision I set out why I did not intend  to uphold the 
complaint. 
I have not received any further submissions from ABS or the late Mrs Ss representatives.
my findings
Ive reviewed and considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind I have  not received any further submissions, my decision remains  as set out 
in the attached provisional decision.
my final decision
I do not currently intend to uphold the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the late Mrs Ss 
representatives to accept or reject my decision before  2 December 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01315692copy provisional decision
complaint
The late Mrs Ss representatives complain about the advice that was given to her by Adviser Business 
Solutions Ltd (ABS) to purchase  an Immediate Needs Care Annuity in 2014.  The representatives do 
not believe that the advice  was appropriate given  Mrs Ss age and health at the time.  
background
Mrs S was 91 in 2014 when the advice  was given to her by ABS to purchase an Immediate Needs 
Care Annuity (Annuity). She was advised to use £100,000 of her savings/investments to buy the 
Annuity, which would  provide a yearly income  of about £22,000 to help pay for care/residential fees. 
Sadly, Mrs S died in September  2014. Therefore she only had the benefit of several  months 
payments from the Annuity. 
Mrs Ss representatives  made  a complaint to ABS about the advice  she had been given. 
ABS did not uphold the complaint. It said that Mrs S had approached it to discuss the option of an 
Annuity, her partner  having  taken out such a plan previously. This was potentially  to pay for her share 
of care fees. It said that Mrs S was concerned that if she took the option of paying  fees from savings 
or investments, she would have to monitor the situation over the longer term to make sure she had 
enough money. 
It said it identified an income shortfall  of about £17,000  at the time.  It obtained  a quotation for the 
Annuity, which Mrs S subsequently  agreed to take out. ABS said there were  no concerns  at the time 
about Mrs Ss health. It said it discussed including  an additional death benefit but Mrs S wished to 
maximise the income. 
In summary, ABS said it thought the advice  it gave  was appropriate and it could  not have anticipated 
that Mrs S would pass away so soon after the plan was taken out. 
The complaint was referred to this service and considered by an investigator. He thought that there 
was an identified shortfall of income for care fees.  But he thought that Mrs Ss and her partners care 
fee needs  could be met by current  savings, investments and income. If Mrs Ss partner were to 
predecease her then she would  still have sufficient assets to pay for the care fees in the future. He did 
not believe the Annuity was necessary or should  have  been recommended  at the time  given the 
sale of property proceeds was imminent. 
ABS did not agree with the investigators assessment. In summary it said:
The recommendation helped Mrs S achieve  her objectives. She had experience of this type of 
plan  which  her partner had taken  out previously.  She felt the Annuity would provide her with 
a secure form of income  especially  if she outlived  her partner. She did not wish to reduce 
her assets to the extent that she may not be able to afford the annuity she might later need 
should her partner predecease her. Protecting  the annuity lump sum was discussed and the 
risk warnings  were  set out. 
The options and alternatives were set out in the suitability report. 
Mrs S and her partner had found their ideal retirement  home and their property sale was not 
proceeding as quickly as they would have liked. They did not wish to lose the retirement 
property by waiting for the property sale. Mrs S wanted to ensure they could support the 
income requirements, especially should she outlive  her partner.
Ref: DRN01315693Mrs S was concerned  that if she used savings and investments to fund the care fees she 
would need to monitor her position.  Mrs S felt strongly she should  use her funds  to support 
her future  and it couldnt be known  how long she would live. 
There were  no particular  health concerns and the Annuity was underwritten  for health at the 
time. It questions the size of her assets bearing in mind it has been stated when  the complaint 
was made that her estate value was only about £10,000.  
Mrs S never voiced any need to it of providing for beneficiaries   she was focused on 
ensuring her income needs  were  met and her funds were for her sole benefit.  
It set out certain life expectancies and that on average  a 90 year old woman would have  an 
expected life expectancy of five years. Mrs S had the option to apply for additional  protection  
but opted  not to as she was keen to maximise her income. 
Mrs S and her partner had several savings accounts and some of the money  for the Annuity 
derived from her partner. It suggests  that some  assets may have been reapplied to Mrs Ss 
partner on her death  which  reduced Mrs Ss estate. 
It believes the assets on the fact find were likely  overstated as they would  not have reduced 
to the £10,000 estate value as submitted in the complaint.  
The advice was suitable and the Annuity provided security  and stability,  which  Mrs S wanted.  
Mrs Ss representative  also commented after the assessment that Mrs Ss partner  was a lot younger 
than her and was in good health. But Mrs S had suffered from pneumonia twice  previously. They  also 
do not understand how it could be recorded that she had £400,000 in assets when only about  
£10,000 was left when  she died.  They questioned if that were so, why would she need  some of her 
partners money to buy the Annuity? 
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He did not believe Mrs Ss desire  to move 
into the retirement home affected  the issue of the Annuity  she had sufficient income  and assets with 
her partner to obtain that residence. The Annuity wasnt required and neither  was the sale of the 
property. The Fact Find recorded that they had already moved  into the care home. Encashing existing 
investments wasnt necessary. Mrs S should have been advised to wait until the property was sold.  
By that point  the Annuity  would not have been put into effect because  of Mrs Ss health at that point.  
The investigator said that most of the funds were held in joint accounts, so the balance would revert  to 
the surviving partner on death. Had Mrs Ss partner died first the benefit of those savings and 
investments would have been available  to Mrs S, and based on the Fact Find she would have had 
around £400,000. She would have had sufficient money at that point to purchase an annuity if she 
had required. 
ABS made a further submission. In summary  it said:
The Annuity provided a secure income to the care provider. It appears that Mrs S had few 
funds she considered her own and according to an archived Fact Find she only had £43,000  
of savings of her own  so the annuity would have been imperative. Mrs S may have had 
sufficient assets if she felt that all of the funds were her own,  but her intentions are not clear. 
By arranging  the annuity  income  she would receive the full capital back  in four years whilst 
securing the remaining capital for beneficiaries.  It is always a gamble to purchase an 
annuity. It believes  that Mrs S was in normal health for a person of her age at the time. 
The alternative would be to run down the funds that belonged to Mrs S. An alternative would 
be to recommend an investment but it could  not recommend that and achieve the same 
potential rate of return along with tax efficiency as the Annuity. 
Ref: DRN01315694Mrs Ss and her partners existing  property was proving very difficult  to sell. There was a 
heightened need  to secure Mrs S position. The decision to use the amount of £100,000 was 
Mrs Ss. A focus was for Mrs S to ensure the best support  for her partner  who had health 
issues. It focused  on its clients needs  not those of the beneficiaries of the estate.  
The risk of leaving  annuity purchase to a later date was that the return would be reduced.  
The complaint has therefore  been passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I have reached a different  outcome that the 
investigator. I will explain  why.
ABS provided  its recommendations in a letter dated 31 January 2014.  In summary it was set out that 
Mrs S had moved to a shared property  where  fees were being funded through pensions, savings and 
an existing Immediate  Needs Care Plan established previously by Mrs Ss partner. 
It was discussed that Mrs S would like to set up a similar  arrangement to the existing Immediate 
Needs Care Plan to provide  a guaranteed income  to pay a proportion of the care fees. £100,000  was 
the sum available to invest. It was also set out that although they held existing assets they would  not 
like to rely on these to cover  the care fees.  
The yearly care fees were stated to be around £80,000   funded from joint pension, savings and Mr 
As care plan. Mrs Ss income  was stated to be about  £13,000 a year. It was set out that:
Although you have substantial savings  which could be utilised to fund your proportion
of the fees, the concern  is that you would  constantly have to monitor your position to ensure
you retain adequate savings to meet your fees.  We have discussed  how an Immediate  Care
Fees annuity  could be used  to fund a proportion  of your care home fees each year.
A recommendation was then made for the purchase of the Annuity for £100,000 which would  provide 
an annual income of about £22,000.
And explanation was then given as to how the Annuity would work  providing a guaranteed income 
to the care provider. The following risk warnings  were given:
In the event of early  death it may be that the annuity has not had chance to repay  the
amount of capital used  to purchase it which could result in a loss of capital
Care fees may increase  at a rate that is higher than the yield on your investments If
this is the case then a larger gap between care fees and income will occur
It is always possible that the tax rules affecting  the annuity may change, although this
is not an imminent threat at the present  time
The Annuity was subsequently put into effect.  I note it had a six month initial period in which  a 
reducing sum would be paid back  should the applicant  die within that time. 
I note that at the same  time an annuity quotation  was requested and this asked questions  about  Mrs 
Ss state of health. Mrs S did list some  medical conditions  but it was recorded that these  were being 
managed and, in general, no immediate concerns or conditions were recorded that would  indicate  
concern as to the suitability  of a care plan. 
A Fact Find was completed  at the time. This does record Mrs S and her partners  address as the care 
home in question  so it does  appear they were already living there when the advice was given. It 
Ref: DRN01315695therefore does not seem that residence was dependent  at that time on the sale of another  property or 
the Annuity being put into effect. Mrs S and her partner were recorded as co-habiting. Mrs Ss state 
of health was recorded as being Good, her partners  Poor. 
The value of the Home (which I assume to be the property to be sold)  was recorded  as £140,000. 
Mrs Ss total income  was about £35,000 and her partners was nearly £90,000  (of which £50,000 was 
investment income).  The Fact Find contains some historical records.  In May 2011 there was a note:
clients are moving into a care home later this month and would  like to use their funds to buy an 
income to meet the monthly cost of the care home which is £44,200 plus £520 (personal  expenditure) 
per annum each. Both clients had an income  shortfall to meet the fees of the care home and wanted 
to gain additional income through  their savings which is
secured and tax efficient.  The clients were also looking to take income from (Mrs Ss partners)  
Skandia bond  and sell their main residence. Initially  (Mrs S) will fund her first months fee's however 
(Mrs Ss partner) needs  an arrangement in place immediately. He
needs a secured income to cover his care fee costs.
In March 2012:
(Mrs S) and (Mrs Ss partner)  have moved out of the care home  and now (Mrs Ss partner) receives 
his immediate care annuity is (sic) paid directly to him and so he is charged income tax on this.
In January 2014:
(Mrs S) and (Mrs Ss partner)  have recently moved back into the care home, (Mrs Ss partner)  needs 
to redirect the monthly payments to the care home rather than being paid to him directly. (Mrs S) 
would also like to set up an arrangement to meet  a proportion of the care fees liability  to ensure  that 
she would have an arrangement in the event of (Mrs Ss partners) death. She would like to secure  the 
payment and maximise  the amount payable. 
In terms of Mrs Ss attitude to risk it was set out that:
The client  has a moderate overall approach  to planning but would like to take a more  cautious 
approach to investing for long term care income.
The amount available to invest was £100,000.
Mrs Ss assets were  recorded as 
£140,000 joint with her partner (assumed to be the property due to be sold)
£43,000 solely  made up of various  cash savings
£163,000 (approximately)  made up of various cash savings - jointly with her partner
About £60,000 of various cash savings were held by her partner.
Total assets were therefore  recorded as about  £405,000.
There is also a record listing Investments. This suggests there was (jointly) about £515,000 in cash  
accounts, with Mrs S holding about  £168,000 of that. And that, with investments, there was about  
£743,000 jointly held, of which £235,000 was Mrs Ss alone. This does not appear to accord with what  
is recorded earlier under Assets.  
There has been discussion about what assets Mrs S actually had and what  she viewed  as hers alone. 
The Fact Find suggests  she had over £230,000 which she held alone  or jointly. But this does not, 
even considering the outlay of £100,000 for the Annuity,  marry up with her net estate value  on death  
which was stated  to be about £10,000.  The Fact Find suggests that jointly Mrs S and her partner had 
sufficient income  to pay the care fees from pension  and investment  income.  But the evidence would  
Ref: DRN01315696seem to suggest that they felt they should  each  meet  their share of the costs. Mrs Ss stated income 
was insufficient to meet  a half share. As discussed, it was also stated in the advisers  
recommendation letter  that the care fees were being met by a combination of investment income and 
pension income, but that Mrs S did not wish to rely on monitoring the investments or investment 
income. 
Mrs S and her partner do appear to have been co-habiting for some time and the evidence indicates 
they were acting jointly with respect to residential  and other  costs. It has been mentioned that Mrs S 
had power  of attorney for her partner because of health issues. So they were  meeting the costs 
together. That said, the evidence  would indicate that Mrs S felt that she should  be meeting  her share 
of the residential  costs  hence the approach to ABS about the Annuity. 
Unfortunately it is not possible now to obtain any detail from Mrs S about her intentions  and views as 
to funding the care fees. So I have  based  my view on the available evidence. As discussed, it is 
indicated by the evidence  that Mrs S wished  to explore  the Annuity   her partner having  previously 
effected such  a plan.  It is also indicated  that she wished for more  certainty than the investments or 
assets she currently held provided.  
I believe ABS is correct when it says that the choice was essentially  between funding  the care fees 
from investments (and potentially running  down  those  investments should returns not be sufficient) 
and taking out the Annuity  which  would  provide a guaranteed level of income. I also believe  it is 
essentially correct when it says that such an Annuity is something of a gamble because  it is not clear 
at outset how long the applicant  will live. But there is also a level of uncertainty  involved with 
depending on investment or assets to pay for care fees over the medium  term as there is no 
guarantee of what level of return  might  be supplied and/or whether such investments will increase or 
reduce in value. So there is a choice  to be made between the two broad  approaches  and neither is 
necessarily an incorrect approach. What option is taken depends materially on the views of the 
applicant  whether they wish to take the risk of investment returns or opt for a guaranteed  route with 
the risk that they might not receive, in plain  terms, their money back.  I have noted that this risk was 
set out in the advisers  recommendation. 
That is a difficult decision and in this case the evidence suggests that Mrs S wished to take the 
guaranteed route. There is no evidence  that she was concerned with leaving value to beneficiaries  
the primary aim was to support her care costs  and therefore her security. 
Having considered  the matter carefully,  given  the evidence, I do not believe the advice was 
unsuitable. It did meet  the need of paying a regular guaranteed sum for care fees with no end date. 
Whilst I have  taken into account what Mrs Ss representatives have said about  her health, I have not 
seen evidence that would  indicate that Mrs S could not benefit from the Annuity or that the adviser 
should not have recommended it. I do not believe there was evidence  available to the adviser that 
would indicate that Mrs Ss health or age made the recommendation of the Annuity inappropriate.  
Whilst I understand that Mrs S had previously suffered from pneumonia,  I have not seen evidence 
that when this advice was given, her health was poor or it could not be assumed  that her longevity  
would be normal for someone of her age. As ABS has said, and although  life expectancy tables are 
not a perfect  tool, based on average life expectancy it was not unreasonable at the time to expect  that 
Mrs S could live for a period  that would  make the Annuity worthwhile. 
The Annuity, of course, seems extremely bad value in hindsight. It cost £100,000 and Mrs S only 
received a fraction of this in the form of regular payments. But that could  not have been known in 
advance. Mrs S could have  received valuable benefit  in effect she would have  broken even after 
about four years payments  from the annuity. And then after that she would be receiving more in 
benefits than the annuity cost. This is the trade off when purchasing such an annuity (and broadly 
speaking it also applies to most forms of life assurance). 
Mrs S could have alternatively been advised or chosen to simply run down her savings in order to pay 
the fees. But that would run the risk of dissipating  the savings  and this was a not in any event 
something she was recorded  as happy to do.   
Ref: DRN01315697my provisional  decision
Bearing in mind  what I have said, I do not currently intend to uphold the complaint or make any 
award.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0131569