K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that TSB Bank plc unfairly  declined their request  for a business 
overdraft. They ask for an explanation and compensation for untrue information they say 
TSB provided about them to a newspaper.
background
Mr and Mrs C are partners in a business  and the account holders for a business account 
with TSB. Theyve retired and family  members  manage the day to day running of the 
business. In March 2018 Mr C and Mrs C asked TSB about  a business overdraft. They say 
TSB told them it wouldnt offer an overdraft  because of their ages. Mr and Mrs C say this is 
unfair. They say they have income and assets  and their ages arent  relevant. 
Mr and Mrs C contacted  a newspaper. The newspaper contacted TSB. Mr and Mrs C say 
TSB provided inaccurate information which resulted in an article  being published which  gives 
the impression  their business  is in financial difficulty.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Initially, a family  member involved in the business contacted  TSB about taking out an 
overdraft to buy equipment. TSB said it wouldnt offer an overdraft for this purpose.  It 
said a loan would be more appropriate  and explained its lending criteria.
Mrs C then contacted  TSB about  an overdraft. TSB said when business customers  are 
over a certain age its lending policy requires a plan for how lending  will be repaid if they 
retire. It didnt say it wouldnt lend to Mr and Mrs C: it explained what  it needed them to 
provide so that it could consider their request. 
TSB asked Mr and Mrs C for their authority  to reply to the newspaper,  which they gave. It 
didnt need to check its reply with them  before sending it to the newspaper.  While  the 
newspaper article included some  incorrect information there was nothing to suggest  TSB 
had deliberately provided incorrect information.  TSB wasnt  responsible for the 
newspaper article including details which Mr and Mrs C say could identified  them.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Mrs C said the main part of their complaint was the incorrect 
information that appeared in the newspaper.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the request for an overdraft 
A family member involved in the business contacted  TSB in March  2018 about an overdraft 
to buy equipment for the business.  TSB said it wouldnt offer an overdraft for this purpose.  It 
explained its criteria for a loan. 
Ref: DRN08606132Mrs C then contacted  to TSB. She gave  more information about the business and why it 
might need  an overdraft facility. She also set out her and Mr Cs personal income  and 
assets. 
The relationship manager discussed  the request with Mrs C. He said that as the two partners 
in the business were  about 75 years old TSB needed to see a plan for how the business 
would continue and the debt would  be repaid  if they retired. He said adding  a family member  
as a partner would be a way to do this. 
Mr and Mrs C disagree with this. They say they have income  and financial assets available  
as security. They dont  want to change the ownership of their business  at this point.
TSB says when business customers are over 75 years old it checks there  is a plan in place 
for the business  to continue if the customers are no longer involved. I dont think  this is 
unreasonable: TSB has to check that loans  (including overdrafts) are affordable on an 
ongoing basis. I dont  think  its reasonable to say TSB should rely on enforcing security.  
I dont think TSB treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly.  It explained what  theyd need to provide so it 
could consider their application for an overdraft.  Mr and Mrs C could then decide whether to 
apply to TSB or look for funds elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt receive TSBs letter responding to their complaint for some 
weeks. The letter  is correctly address so I dont think I can reasonably find this was due to 
an error by TSB. Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  about  some of the details in the letter. But I 
think the main point of their complaint   about how TSB would  look at their request for an 
overdraft  was addressed. 
the newspaper  article
Mr and Mrs C contacted  a newspaper. The newspaper contacted TSB for comments. TSB 
asked Mr and Mrs C for their authority to reply, which they gave.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the article  published  in the newspaper.  They say it contains 
enough information to identify their business, contains inaccuracies and suggests  their 
business is in trouble.  
I agree  that the reference in the article  to the amount  of the overdraft  requested is incorrect. I 
think TSB is responsible for this. While I dont think TSB needed  to check  its response to the 
newspaper with Mr and Mrs C, it ought  to have checked it was correct.  But I dont think this 
error makes it reasonable to require TSB to pay compensation. 
TSB isnt responsible  for the article containing information that Mr and Mrs C say could be 
used to identify  them. The main point of the article is whether Mr and Mrs Cs request for 
lending was rejected due to their ages. I dont  think the amount  they requested is material  to 
this. I dont think the statement TSB gave to the newspaper  about checking that 
businesses can repay loans without difficulty  was intended to suggest Mr and Mrs Cs 
business was in trouble. And TSB wasnt responsible for the decision about which parts  of its 
statement were quoted in the article.
Also, while Mr and Mrs C are concerned that someone reading the article might  think their 
business is in trouble,  I havent seen any evidence that this is the case  or that its had any 
adverse effect  on their business.
Ref: DRN08606133my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0860613