K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Revolut Limited  wont refund him for payments made by his pre-
paid card to a wedding company after hed raised  a chargeback.
background
Mr S made two payments totalling around  £2,000 to a wedding company using his Revolut  
pre-paid card for his overseas wedding. He tells us the wedding  company didnt provide all 
the services that hed paid for, so he contacted  Revolut to ask if it could help him claim some 
of his money back. Mr S had already tried to resolve  the issue direct with the wedding 
company. The services he said he didnt receive were:
Photo  album  with 50 prints.
2 flower garlands.
String of luck charm  bracelets.
Marriage certificate.
USB stick with video.
Photos in RAW file format.
Revolut said it was unable  to assist Mr S because the time limit for raising a chargeback had 
expired. It also explained  that Mr Ss account was a pre-paid card, so he couldnt  claim his 
money back under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 either.
Mr S didnt agree with Revoluts response. And he was unhappy with the way Revolut 
handled his claim. He thought that the time limits could be extended where a payment was 
made for goods  to be supplied in the future. He also said that his initial contact  with Revolut 
was well within the time limit. He said hed emailed the Chief  Executive Officer (CEO) about 
the claim directly, but hadnt received a response. As things couldnt be resolved, Mr S 
brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought the chargeback  
wasnt raised in time, and he didnt think that Mr S could have claimed under section 75 
because the payment wasnt  made  with credit. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He felt that Revolut intentionally  
caused delays  so that the date to be able to raise a chargeback would expire.  Mr S also 
reiterated that some of the services hed paid for were due to be provided in the future. So 
he felt that the time limits should have started later than when the investigator thought. 
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
was the chargeback raised in time?
Under certain circumstances, consumers  can ask their card issuer to reverse  payments 
made on their card  by raising  a chargeback.  Individual card schemes have their own rules  
that the card issuer  (in this case Revolut) have to apply.
Ref: DRN02061812The rules  that apply to the type of card Mr S has say that the chargeback must be brought 
within 120 days of the date the goods or services were due to be received. So Ive first 
thought about whether the chargeback  was raised  in time. In this case,  the garlands and 
string bracelets were  due to be supplied at the actual wedding, on the 6 January 2018. 
But its not clear exactly  when the marriage  certificate, photos and video were  due to be 
provided  the contract doesnt  include this information. Mr S has explained that he received 
a USB stick with a limited  number of pictures the day after the wedding  and he expected to 
receive the outstanding items  in due course. However, Mr S stated on his claim form with 
Revolut that the expected date of the goods was 6 January 2018  the date of the wedding.
Even if I accept that Mr S made  a mistake on the claim  form, what  I do know  is that his 
partner wrote to the supplier on the 11 January 2018  about  missing items. And I also know  
that Mr S and his partner  were due to leave  the wedding destination the following day. It 
seems more likely  than not they expected  to have received the goods by this point at the 
very latest.  So, I think it would be fair to start the time limit for raising a chargeback from this 
date as well. Therefore, even if I take the latest  date possible  under  the schemes rules, Mr S 
needed to have raised his chargeback by 12 May 2018 at the latest for it to have been  made  
in time. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr S contacted Revolut on 31 May 2018 to enquire about  raising  a 
chargeback. Mr S has also said he contacted Revoluts CEO about his claim by mail and 
email within  the 120 day time limit, but he hasnt  been able to provide any supporting 
evidence. Revolut couldnt find any evidence of this contact  either.  And it explained that it 
doesnt provide  an email  or any other valid channel of communication for its CEO  (although  I 
accept Mr S says he sent his correspondence to the head office address and for the 
attention of the CEO and emailed at what he thought was his direct  email address).
And although Mr S says that the wording in his correspondence with Revolut on 
31 May 2018 shows that previous correspondence  to it had been left unanswered, I think 
that is open to interpretation and on one reading  could  also suggest that he hadnt heard 
back from the supplier rather than Revolut. Whats more, in his initial  complaint  form to this 
service, Mr S said that contacted Revolut on 31 May 2018 to raise the chargeback.
Having carefully thought  about what Mr S had said, and taking all of the evidence  into 
account, I dont  think  theres sufficient  evidence to show that he raised  his chargeback  with 
Revolut in time. I think, on balance, that the first time Mr S raised his chargeback with 
Revolut was on 31 May 2018  which was outside  of the 120 day time limit, even taking into 
account the fact that the clock starts  on the day that services were  due to be received.  
While I know Mr S will be disappointed, I think the chargeback was raised outside of the time 
limit. And therefore, I think it reasonable that Revolut didnt offer to take any further action to 
help Mr S get his money back  because any chargeback raised was unlikely to succeed,  as 
the time limit had expired.  
Revoluts handling  of the claim. 
Ive also thought about Revoluts handling  of the chargeback claim, because  Mr S has told 
us hes unhappy  about this as well. 
Ref: DRN02061813I think Revolut was correct in explaining to Mr S that he would be unable  to raise a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  because  he didnt pay for the goods  and 
services using credit.  
However, I think Revolut could have been clearer about the time limits for raising a 
chargeback. I say this because it only let Mr S know that the chargeback should have been 
raised within 120 of the transaction  date, as opposed to the date that the goods or services 
were due to be received.  Ultimately, and for the reasons  Ive set out above, that didnt make 
a difference to Mr S claim but I can see Mr S is unhappy about  this.
I can also see why Mr S would be unhappy Revolut contacted  him again about the 
chargeback after it initially said his claim had been  made to late. I can understand how this 
may have  incorrectly led him to believe that his claim was going to succeed. But I think  
Revolut was simply trying to ensure it was considering the claim using the correct  dates  so 
that it could check  whether  or not the claim had been made in time. I find this was a 
reasonable thing to do. 
Im sorry  to learn that Mr S didnt receive all that he should have and I can see that the 
failure of the supplier  to send the marriage  certificate in particular has caused him great 
upset and inconvenience. But overall,  I dont  think Revoluts  handling  of the claim  itself 
caused Mr S any significant detriment,  so I dont think  that it needs to take any action in 
relation to its handling of the claim either. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0206181