K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont refund transactions he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 5 March 2020.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was fair for Barclays to hold Mr K liable  for the payments in dispute. I said Id consider 
anything else anyone  wanted to send me  so long as I received it by 19 March 2020.
Barclays said they had nothing further to add.
Mr K reiterated that he didnt make the transactions,  and pointed out that hed never 
reported previous  gambling losses as fraudulent before. He clarified  that while he doesnt 
know who made the payments and couldnt  name  anyone in particular who hed suspect,  
he did think it was possible that hed given someone  his details in the past, and he 
suspects that someone he knows did this without  his permission.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as before  Ill explain why. 
Mr K says he hasnt reported any of his gambling  transactions to be fraudulent  before, even 
when he lost money, and I do understand his point. But the disputed  transactions were  made  
using his same gambling account that he used  for the genuine payments, and were for the 
same types  of games, at a similar  level of spending,  at a device address that fits with where 
Mr K lives.  So the disputed payments look genuine,  too. And Ive not seen any evidence  to 
show that Mr Ks account was hacked, or anything that makes  it seem implausible or unlikely 
that Mr K couldve authorised the payments in dispute.
Mr K now says its possible  that he did give someone the details needed to make these 
payments, and he suspects that someone  he knew made them. But this directly  contradicts 
what he told us before the provisional decision, where he said hed never shared his card 
details or gambling  account details with anyone he knew. And when we asked if there was 
anyone he knew who he thought couldve logged into his gambling  account and used his 
card details, he said no. So its difficult for me to take Mr Ks latest testimony to be correct.
The person  who made  these payments  needed  both Mr Ks card details and the login 
information for his gambling account,  which is a fair amount  of private information. So it 
wouldve been relatively difficult for someone to have got those details without Mr Ks 
permission. And if Mr K had given  away such private details to someone,  Id have thought he 
would remember who they were. Further, I would question why Mr K would give someone  
access to his gambling account and payment information, unless he also gave them  consent  
to make gambling payments on his behalf.
Ref: DRN03383662Lastly, as I said in my provisional decision,  any winnings wouldve been paid back to Mr K. 
So in this particular  case, it doesnt seem especially likely that someone  would defraud Mr K 
like this if ultimately any money went back to him and the thief didnt make  any profit.
So as before, I dont  think  its likely that an unknown  party did this; I still dont have anything  
that makes it seem  likely  that someone  known to Mr K did this without his permission; and 
the payments  otherwise seem  genuine. So I think its most likely that Mr K made the 
disputed transactions  or gave his consent  for someone else to use his account. And so 
I think its fair for Barclays  to hold him liable  for the payments in dispute. I know  this is not 
the outcome that Mr K will have been  hoping  for, but I dont  think  I can reach any other  
reasonable conclusion given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ks 
complaint about  Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03383663COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
background
Mr K had an online  gambling  account that he used between 2015 and 2017, spending  a total of 
£52,753 in that time.
In the late night of 1 July 2017 and the early morning of 2 July 2017, Mr Ks Barclays credit card was 
used for six deposits into his online gambling account, totalling £14,200.  This was then spent  on 
online games.
Mr Ks card got declined later that day, and on 3 July 2017 he called to report  this. He was told that 
the gambling  transactions  had used up his limit, and he disputed making them.
Mr K says he kept his card in his phone case, hadnt lost it before, and didnt share it or the details  
with anyone. He says he didnt share his gambling  account  with anyone, either. He couldnt remember 
who was living with him, but didnt  suspect  that anyone he knew couldve done this without his 
permission. Mr K said he got phone calls and texts  from someone claiming to be the gambling 
merchant, asking him for personal details. He says he just hung up, but may have given them  some 
details. He couldnt remember what hed told them, or when this happened, and no longer had any 
record of these calls or texts.
The merchant said the account had been logged  into with Mr Ks genuine username  and password. 
The device address, spending, and games were consistent with Mr Ks normal  usage. No new 
withdrawal methods were  added, so any winnings wouldve gone back  to Mr K. And in order to make 
the deposits, the user needed to know the cards three-digit security  code. They said theyd  tried to 
call Mr K, but he just hung up, and he never told them  that anything was wrong.
Barclays held Mr K liable for the payments in dispute,  since theyd been made using his genuine 
account and card details, and were consistent with his previous payments.
Our investigator looked into things independently, and didnt uphold the complaint.  He didnt see a 
likely way that someone used Mr Ks account and card without  his permission. And he noted  that the 
spending was similar in nature to Mr Ks genuine  spending.
Mr K didnt agree,  so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
what Ive provisionally  decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im thinking of coming  to the same conclusions as our investigator, 
and for much the same reasons.
Broadly, Barclays can hold Mr K liable  for the payments in dispute if he authorised them. Im satisfied 
from Barclays technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Ks genuine card details, and 
the merchant  has confirmed this was a genuine login  on his genuine gambling account.  This is not 
enough, on its own, for Barclays to hold Mr K liable.  So I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its most likely Mr K consented  to the transactions, or not.
Ref: DRN03383664Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Barclays to hold Mr K liable for the transactions. Ill explain why.
Mr K suggested that the calls and texts he got may have been  a fraudsters attempts to get his details. 
But Ive got no evidence showing that these calls or texts happened, or what  they involved. And from 
what the merchants told us, it sounds like at least some of them  really were genuine. Further,  Mr K 
said he hung  up and didnt recall giving  them any details. The only details he suggested he might 
have given away  his date of birth and long card number   wouldnt have been useful in making  
these payments.
While its possible someone could have hacked Mr Ks account,  Ive not seen any evidence to show  
that was the case. More importantly, they wouldve needed his card security code to make these  
deposits. And since Mr K kept his card with him and hadnt lost it or shared  it, and the code wasnt 
held in the gambling  account, I dont see a likely way they knew it without his consent.
Further, the only withdrawal  method that was set up for winnings was Mr Ks own card. That means  
any winnings  wouldve been paid to Mr K. Its difficult to see why an unknown thief might make these 
deposits, if ultimately any money  won went back to Mr K and the thief didnt make any profit.
So I dont think its plausible that an unknown party did this.
It is possible that someone known to Mr K may have made the transactions without his permission. 
But Mr K didnt give us the details of anyone with access to his home, and said he didnt suspect that 
anyone he knew couldve  done this without  his permission. So Mr K himself  seems to have ruled out 
this possibility.
The disputed deposits were  made from a device whose  address fits with where  Mr K lives.  According  
to the merchants information, the deposits  were spent on the same type of games  that Mr K normally 
played. And the amounts  involved were similar to Mr Ks previous  spending: despite only using the 
account very occasionally before this  with gaps  in usage of up to nine months  Mr K had spent  a 
total of £52,753 on this account before the disputed transactions.  So the disputed deposits look more  
like Mr Ks genuine  spending, rather than like payments done without his consent. And Ive not seen 
any evidence that makes it seem implausible  or unlikely that Mr K couldve authorised these  
payments or given someone else permission to make them.
In summary, Im satisfied  that Mr Ks genuine account  and card details were used. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely  way an unknown  person did this, and Ive not got anything to suggest  that 
someone known to Mr K did this without his permission. Indeed, Mr K himself  seems to have ruled out 
that possibility. That leaves only one likely possibility: that Mr K made  the transactions or gave 
someone else permission to make them   which is consistent with the spending and the way the 
payments were made. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Mr K to receive. But given the evidence  I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach  any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen so far, I currently think its fair for Barclays to hold Mr K liable for the 
payments in dispute.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Please could  Barclays  and Mr K send  me any more  information or comments  to look at by 19 March 
2020. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0338366