K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) treated him unfairly  because  it 
didnt take account of his mental  health  problems in the way it communicated with him about 
his debt. As a result, he says hes suffered  a great  deal of anxiety and hasnt been able to 
manage his accounts.
background
Mr T had a credit card debt of around £2,900 with Halifax. In 2017 he was signed off work  
due to serious mental health issues and contacted Halifax about  his situation. He told Halifax  
he couldnt discuss his issues by phone as he found this very stressful and it made his 
mental health worse.  He asked Halifax to communicate with him by email as hed moved out 
of his home into a mobile home  because of his difficult  situation.  Halifax said it couldnt 
communicate by email because of security  concerns and it continued to send Mr T letters to 
his old address. Mr T says he didnt  hear from Halifax for some time and later received a 
letter about  his debt from a debt recovery agency which had been redirected to a family 
members address.
Mr T found it very upsetting that Halifax  had passed his debt to a debt recovery agency.  He 
complained that Halifax  had discriminated against him because  it had failed  to make a 
reasonable adjustment in the way it communicated with him. Halifax  rejected  his complaint. 
It said it couldnt communicate with him by email for security reasons. So Mr T came to this 
service. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should succeed so Mr T asked for review 
by an ombudsman. I issued a Provisional Decision dated 18 July 2019 indicating that I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken account of the 
submissions from Mr T and comments from Halifax in response to my Provisional Decision 
though my conclusions  havent changed.
Mr T contacted Halifax about his mental health problems and financial difficulties as soon as 
he realised he was going to have difficulties  managing his debt. Halifax  says he was passed  
on to a specialist  team dedicated to helping vulnerable consumers. But I cant  see that any 
effort was made to help Mr T communicate  effectively with the business.
Halifax sent letters because Mr T told it he found it stressful  to deal with his finances  over the 
phone. But sending letters  to an address which Halifax knew Mr T was no longer living at 
didnt offer any practical solution. Ive asked  Halifax to explain what  steps  it couldve taken to 
provide a reasonable adjustment to help Mr T access its services given his mental  health  
problems. But it hasnt  given any indication that it really considered this problem or offered 
any possible  alternatives.
People suffering  from mental health  issues often  find it difficult  to discuss their finances over 
the phone. And its not uncommon for people with mental health issues and financial 
difficulties to find themselves without  a permanent address. While Halifax may not be able to 
communicate by email because of security  concerns, I would expect a business  of this size 
with a specialist  team to be able to discuss other options for communicating with a 
vulnerable consumer in these circumstances.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think  Halifax 
did enough to help Mr T communicate  with it about his debt.
Ref: DRN02285242I understand Mr Ts very upset that his debts been  passed to a debt recovery  agency and 
he feels that, if hed been able to communicate  with Halifax this wouldnt have happened.  Its 
clear that part of the distress Mr Ts suffered is due to Halifaxs  failure to communicate  
effectively with him. But I dont think the move to the debt recovery agency has 
disadvantaged Mr T as its part of the same business and Mr T wont  incur any additional 
costs. So I propose to order redress for the distress and inconvenience caused by the failure 
to communicate  properly. But I dont think Halifax should take the debt back from the debt 
recovery agency in the circumstances.
Its difficult to put an exact figure on compensation for the distress caused  to Mr T by 
Halifaxs failure to take account of his mental health  issues in its communication. But Mr T 
clearly informed Halifax about his issues and was very worried  about the lack of 
communication over several months. Discovering the debt had been passed to a debt 
recovery agency clearly  made Mr T even  more anxious. Given his extremely  difficult 
situation, I can see this caused a substantial  amount  of distress over an extended period of 
time. 
In reaching a decision about  compensation,  I must  take account of all the circumstances of 
the case and, in particular, the impact on the person  bringing the complaint. In Mr Ts case,  
this means taking account of his vulnerability and mental health issues.  In response to my 
Provisional Decision, hes provided  further  submissions on how he felt about the issues  he 
had with Halifax and how its affected  him. Our published guidance  on compensation for 
non-financial loss (https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-non-financial-loss) says that where 
substantial distress and inconvenience has been  caused to a consumer, the award should 
be between £500  and £2000. Therefore,  bearing in mind Mr Ts mental health problems, the 
added anxiety and the length of time that the problem went on for, I find that compensation  
of £650 is appropriate in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld. 
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr T £650 as compensation  for the distress  its 
communication failures caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0228524