K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited damaged his property when fixing a leak 
and several months  later still havent repaired the damage. 
background
Mr H had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas.  In February 2018, Mr H had 
a leak so he called British Gas to locate  and fix the leak. An engineer inspected Mr Hs 
property and located the leak behind  a wall. He told Mr H he would need to cut a hole in the 
wall to repair the leak and Mr H would  need to arrange for the repair  to the wall himself.  Mr H 
was unhappy  so he called British Gas as his policy said he was covered for up to £1,000 to 
access the leak and make good  each repair. 
British Gas agreed this was incorrect and the engineer  shouldve  given Mr H the information 
so he could arrange for British Gas to come  back and repair the wall. So they raised  a 
complaint for Mr H letting  him know theyd come  back to him in eight weeks. In April 2018, 
Mr H chased British  Gas for an update as he still hadnt heard from them and the hole in his 
wall still hadnt been repaired. And when he didnt get a response he asked our service to 
look into his complaint. 
Our investigator contacted British Gas who agreed  Mr H hadnt received the service  he 
wouldve expected  from them.  They  agreed to repair the hole in Mr Hs wall and offered him 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience  caused.  Mr H didnt think  this was enough.  He 
said hed had to look at the hole for several months and the hole was so big it caused him 
significant embarrassment.  
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She felt British Gas shouldve 
arranged for the repair as soon as Mr H made  them aware of the hole  rather than logging a 
complaint. She felt that Mr Hs policy clearly covered making good so there was no reason 
for a delay in completing the repair, and based  on the size and location of the hole in Mr Hs 
wall British Gas should pay him £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.   
Mr H agreed but British Gas didnt.  They  felt the compensation amount was too high as Mr H 
hadnt been left without  heating or hot water due the error  and were only prepared  to offer 
£150 compensation. As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case  has been passed  to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Mr H has told us that hes unhappy British Gas left him with a hold in his wall after fixing  a 
leak  and I understand why. Ive seen that Mr Hs policy said well pay up to £1,000 to gain 
access and make good for each repair and that the definition of access and making good 
includes filling in holes  we have made and leaving a level surface. So I dont  think it was 
unreasonable for Mr H to expect British Gas to deliver the service hes paid for.
Mr H made  British Gas aware on the same day the repair took place that their engineer  
hadnt done the job that he expected, and he gave them  ample opportunity to rectify their 
Ref: DRN01824042mistake. However, instead of arranging for the hole in Mr Hs wall to be fixed British Gas 
simply raised a complaint  and took no further action  despite  repeated  calls from Mr H for 
an update. 
Theres no dispute that Mr H was covered for both the repair  and making good  and British 
Gas have confirmed  this is the case. However  they dont feel Mr H was caused significant 
inconvenience as the pipe repair was completed  when it shouldve  been. But I dont  agree.  
From looking  at Mr Hs policy I think it wouldve been clear  to the member of staff that took 
Mr Hs call in February  that he had cover for making good, so it shouldve been  arranged at 
the same  time as making the complaint. 
Ive also seen that even though the complaint was raised, British Gas didnt contact  Mr H 
despite the chasers and didnt even mention making good the hole until this service 
contacted them. Ive seen pictures of the hole in Mr Hs wall and I can see that this is a 
significant size and I can understand why hes felt upset it hasnt been repaired.  Mr H has 
also told us that the hole is in his home office and is extremely visible meaning hes also 
suffered embarrassment  from it. 
I recognise Mr H has been caused distress  as he has a substantial hole in the wall of his 
home that hes not been able to disguise  in anyway. And hes also made us aware hes been 
trying to sell his home during this time, so hes not been able to show his house in the way 
he wanted it to look for potential buyers. Mr H has also had the inconvenience  of calling 
British Gas on numerous occasions for them to resolve a claim he was clearly covered for. 
So I feel that British  Gas should pay him £400 compensation for the trouble and upset  hes 
suffered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct British  Gas Insurance Limited  to do 
the following:
Arrange for the repair of the hole in Mr Hs wall within the next month;
Pay Mr H £400 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0182404