K821x#15complaint
Ms H has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling  of her car insurance  policy.
Reference to Aviva  includes their agents.
background
Ms Hs car was insured with Aviva. On 4 November 2018, she was involved in an accident. 
As she was driving  out of a private car park a metal  barrier  that is left open to allow cars in 
and out swung into her car. It damaged her bonnet and smashed through the windscreen. It 
was a terrifying experience for Ms H during which she fractured a finger. Over £10,000 worth 
of damage was caused to her car.
Ms H claimed on her policy and told Aviva  the owner of the barrier  was negligent as it should 
have been secured to avoid it moving. Soon  after the accident a new padlock was installed 
on the barrier to prevent it from moving.  
Aviva instructed an investigator to find out who owned the car park and barrier. But the 
investigator wasnt able to establish  that. As a result, Aviva said they would have  to record 
the claim as a fault claim against  Ms Hs driving record.  Ms H said Aviva hadnt done  
enough to establish ownership  of the barrier  or the car park. Aviva said they then asked a 
solicitor to help. Aviva  said the solicitor requested the land registry information but it was a 
negative result and they cant establish who the owner of the gate is. 
Ms H complained but Aviva didnt uphold it. Ms H felt that was unfair so she brought her 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that Aviva  had dealt  
with Ms H fairly.  As Ms H didnt  agree  with our investigator,  the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 13 May 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Under the policy Aviva have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate.  
But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a fair and reasonable way. Especially 
as by settling  the claim as fault,  the cost of Ms Hs premiums will be impacted for 
years to come.
The evidence shows that the barrier wasnt secure  and through  no fault of Ms H she 
had a very unpleasant accident. I think the fact that someone installed a padlock to 
secure the barrier  soon  after Ms Hs accident  is an acknowledgement that securing it 
was a necessary  measure  which  should  have been  done before. Aviva said that even  
if they knew who the owner of the gate was, it would have still been  difficult  to prove 
that they were  negligent. But Aviva also accepted that it is still possible that we 
would have made a recovery  without anything  to support that the owner  of this was 
negligent.
Ref: DRN05254442Having considered all the available evidence I dont think  that Aviva  carried out a 
reasonable investigation to establish  ownership  of the barrier and the car park.  In 
particular, I note the following:
There is a building  that adjoins the car park and the private single lane road 
leading from the main road to the car park. The barrier is situated on the private 
road. The building is owned by a bank. And on the wall of the bank there  is a sign 
that says the car park is private land owned by the bank.
The bank  owns and controls CCTV cameras overlooking the car park.  Attached 
to the banks building is a flood  light which illuminates  the car park.
The investigator appointed by Aviva  spoke with two managers  at the bank. The 
investigator concluded that the bank was being uncooperative with Avivas 
enquiries.
There is a sign in the car park said to be owned  by the bank which  gives  the 
name and address  of the private  company that manages the car park. The 
investigator said: We have attempted to contact [the company that manages the 
car park] about this matter  but they do not have a listed telephone number - their 
only contact details  appear to be [their address]. But Ive seen no evidence  that 
Aviva have  written to that company  to find out who owns the barrier and the car 
park. Thats despite  the investigator  saying:  It is felt that [the company managing 
the car park] may hold the answer to the missing and then replaced padlock  on 
the subject barrier but from what has been learned of their reputation locally - it is 
considered extremely  doubtful that any admissions or useful information will be 
forthcoming from them. This suggests no contact was made with them.  The 
company operating  the car park and barrier  are a private company. I think  they 
would only be able to do so on the authority of the owner.  So I think  that would 
have been a reasonable line of enquiry.
Other than the investigator speaking with managers at the bank,  I havent  seen 
any other evidence  of steps  being taken to follow  up or verify  the evidence  that 
the bank is responsible for the car park and barrier. 
Adjoining the car park said to be owned  by the bank  is a second car park that is 
used by a railway station and is operated  by a different private company. The 
bank told the investigator  that the land and car park belong  to the rail company. 
The investigator said there were no signs in the service road or car park to 
indicate that the owner is the railway company. The investigator said he spoke 
with staff at the ticket  office but no one there  was able to advise in respect of 
Public Liability  Insurance for the land and barrier  in question but instead, on each 
occasion, we have been provided with the name,  address, telephone number 
and email address  of the owner of the railway. The investigator said: None of the 
contact details have  yet been  used  as it was felt that insured clients  would prefer  
to make such contact. Given the railway  company was identified  as potentially 
being the owner of the car park and the private  road on which  the barrier was 
attached, I think this was a reasonable line of enquiry to follow  but Ive seen no 
evidence that Aviva made contact with the railway  company.  
I have seen no evidence that checks were done  with the local authority to 
establish who owned the barrier  or the car park.  
Ive seen the email  from the solicitor to Aviva. In that the solicitor said:  all we will 
be able to do is run a land registry check  and if this comes back as inconclusive  
then we will have to close the file. I note Aviva asked the solicitor to do a land 
registry check only after Ms H suggested  that. But Ive not seen any details of 
exactly what enquiries the solicitor made and why they were not able to establish  
ownership despite the land clearly being owned by someone.  And the comments 
Ref: DRN05254443of the solicitor show the extent of their involvement  would be very limited to just 
run a check with the land registry. But as detailed above, there clearly were  more 
reasonable lines of enquiry that I think should  have been followed up to establish 
ownership.
It might help if I explain for Ms Hs benefit  that the term fault  claim  can be 
misleading. It doesnt necessarily mean that she was at fault for the accident. 
Insurance companies use that term to indicate  that they have paid out on a claim 
but havent been able to recover their outlay (the amount they paid on the claim) 
from another party. So, had Aviva identified the owner of the car park and 
recovered the money Aviva spent on repairing Ms Hs car, Aviva  would have 
recorded it as a non-fault claim.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont think Aviva investigated the claim 
reasonably and, as a result, they havent dealt  with Ms H fairly. Im therefore 
intending to uphold this complaint. I intend  to require Aviva to change  all records 
relating to the claim, in particular the Claims and Underwriting  Exchange (CUE), 
to show the claim as non-fault. Aviva should  also reinstate Ms Hs no claims 
bonus for the policy year in which the claim happened, provided there were no 
other fault claims that year.  Im aware that this matter has been a source of 
distress and inconvenience for Ms H. I therefore intend to require Aviva  to pay 
her £250  compensation to address that.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Ms H accepted my 
provisional decision. Aviva didnt and made  the following comments:
The policy gives Aviva  full discretion as to how they settle a claim.
Our investigator found in Avivas favour. Its therefore unclear why my provisional 
decision has changed that to uphold the complaint.  
In my provisional decision I quoted from an Aviva letter  that said: that it is still 
possible that we would have made a recovery without anything  to support that the 
owner of this was negligent. But that letter was the wrong version as it contained an 
error. The correct version said that it is still possible that we would not have made  a 
recovery without anything to support  that the owner of this was negligent.  [My 
emphasis]
Even if the correct  respondent could  be located  Aviva would still have to prove they 
were negligent  which is difficult  in a case like this.
The act of the owner installing a padlock  on the barrier after Ms Hs accident  would 
support that they were not negligent  as they were unaware of an issue  before  but 
acted as soon  as they were aware  of one.
They should not amend Ms Hs driver record to non-fault. Thats  because  even if 
Aviva found the land owner there is no guarantee that any action against  them would 
be successful. And any costs would still be recorded on CUE. Also, the claim being 
recorded as non-fault may make  no difference to how other insurers  use that 
information.
If I still maintain my view that Avivas decision is unreasonable  Aviva should be 
allowed a further attempt at a recovery and they will ask that solicitors be instructed 
to try and issue against all parties.  If they are successful  then the claim can be 
amended to a non-fault claim, in the meantime the claim would need to be left open 
whilst the relevant action is taken.  If such action is not successful then all legal costs 
will have  to be paid against  the claim and increase  its costs.  
Compensation is not justified because Aviva have acted in line with the policy.
Ref: DRN05254444my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But I will address Avivas further comments as follows:
As I explained in my provisional decision,  while I accept Aviva have discretion in how 
they settle a claim  under the policy. Aviva are aware that they must do so fairly and 
reasonably. And for the reasons  I explained in my provisional  decision, I came to the 
conclusion that Avivas actions werent reasonable.
It is not uncommon for ombudsmen and investigators to have differing views. And our 
service has a two tier system so that an ombudsman can review  all the evidence 
afresh in the event  one or both parties  disagree  with the view of the investigator.  And 
an ombudsman isnt bound by the view of an investigator.  In my provisional  decision I 
have fully explained the reasoning behind my decision  to uphold Ms Hs complaint.
I wasnt aware that the Aviva letter I quoted was the wrong version. I am therefore 
disregarding that quote and make it clear it has no bearing  on my final decision.
I agree  with Aviva that even if they find the correct respondent Aviva must prove 
negligence. But the first step would have been for Aviva  to find the respondent but for 
the reasons given  in my provisional decision I dont think Aviva took reasonable steps  
in doing that. Had the respondent been found it may have been the case that they 
would have accepted liability.
I disagree with Aviva  on their view regarding the padlock. An owner of premises must  
take reasonable steps to ensure the safety  of people, and their property, while using 
their premises. I dont  think the fact that the owner installed  a padlock after Ms Hs 
accident would support  they were not negligent because it shows  they were  unaware 
of the issue. I think they had a duty of care to ensure the premises  were  safe to be 
used and issues giving rise to danger were identified  before an accident  happened.
This matter has been ongoing for over a year and a half. Aviva  are now asking for me 
to put off my decision to allow  them  to instruct a solicitor with a view to try and issue 
against all parties. That process could potentially take years. And for the reasons 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision, Aviva  didnt take reasonable steps to 
identify the owner of the land promptly. I think Aviva  have had ample time to do what 
they are now asking me to allow them to do, and given it may possibly take a 
substantial amount of time to achieve  that, I dont think  its fair or reasonable to keep 
Ms H in a prolonged state of uncertainty and thereby continuing her distress and 
inconvenience. Ms H is entitled  to finality  in her complaint and that should happen as 
soon as possible.
Had Aviva dealt  with things reasonably its possible that this matter could have been 
concluded in Ms Hs favour.  Its for that reason that I think Aviva should record  the 
claim as non-fault  and compensate her. And I disagree with Aviva as most insurers  
that I know of, for the purposes  of setting premiums, treat policyholders  with fault 
claims as higher risk than those with non-fault claims.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance  Limited  
to:
Amend all records relating to the claim,  in particular the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE), to show the claim as non-fault. Aviva should also reinstate Ms Hs 
Ref: DRN05254445no claims bonus for the policy  year in which the claim happened,  provided there were 
no other fault claims that year.
Pay Ms H £250  compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling Aviva that Ms H has accepted my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that amount  
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman 
1 If Aviva  consider that they are required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Ms H how much they have taken off. They should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0525444