K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Ltd recorded incorrect information about him on his credit file. 
Hes also unhappy it hasnt been  able to explain why this error occurred.
background 
In October  2018 Mr R discovered that, in May 2015,  NewDay had recorded information  
about him on his credit  file. This came to light when Mr Rs employer carried  out a credit  
check as part of his role. Mr R had never had an account with NewDay and, during that 
check, he found out it had linked an address, which hed never lived at. 
Mr R said his profession requires security clearance, which involves searches from various  
sources including credit file checks.  And he said when his credit check  revealed  an address 
he hadnt disclosed he was given a lower security  clearance while  his address was being  
investigated. He said this impacted the work he was able to carry out and caused distress,  
inconvenience and embarrassment.
When Mr R complained to NewDay about what happened it upheld his complaint and agreed  
to remove the incorrect  information from his credit  file. It offered  him £20 compensation by 
way of an apology.  But it wasnt  able to explain how his credit file had come to show  
incorrect information. 
Mr R rejected NewDays compensation offer because he didnt think  it went  far enough to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  he had been caused. And he referred  his 
complaint to our service where our investigator  upheld it. 
Our investigator agreed that an error had been made, which  warranted  a higher award of 
compensation. NewDay reassessed  the amount of compensation it was willing to pay and 
increased its offer to £100. Our investigator thought that was a fair offer. But Mr R didnt 
think this fairly reflected  the trouble hed been put to and the impact the error had had on 
him. So, he asked  for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr R and NewDay that Ive read everything that theyve 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something  its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
I can see Mr R feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what hes 
said to both us and NewDay. And thats not surprising.  I can appreciate how upsetting it 
must have  been  for him to have discovered that incorrect information  had been recorded on 
his credit file and for this to impact  on his employment. So, in thinking  about whether 
NewDay has acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right here Ive thought 
carefully about the impact this all had on Mr R. 
Ref: DRN02464812NewDay has offered him £100 to reflect the impact this mistake had. Its clear he doesnt 
think this adequately reflects his inconvenience  and experience. But Im afraid I have to tell 
Mr R that I agree with our investigators  view.  Im persuaded that £100  is a fair amount of 
compensation for NewDay  to pay for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. Indeed,  
theres not a great deal I can add to what our investigators already told Mr R. I think they set 
out the position very clearly and thoroughly.
The amount  NewDay  offered  to compensate Mr R is towards the lower  end of the range for 
the category that this service  would describe as moderate. I think  thats a fair description  of 
the difficulties  Mr R had here. And I dont think they warrant a higher figure.
Although incorrect information  had been  recorded about Mr R since  May 2015,  it seems he 
only became aware of the error in October  2018 when a credit  search  was undertaken by his 
employer. That suggests to me that this issue didnt present any problems to him until that 
point.
I can appreciate that the incorrect information  impacted  Mr Rs employment. But I havent 
seen any evidence of any losses that he may have incurred during  the time that this problem  
remained unresolved.  
Ive thought about the length  of time it took for this issue  to be resolved.  I can see that Mr R 
raised a complaint with NewDay in December 2018.  There was communication between 
both Mr R and NewDay after this date until March 2019 when NewDay issued its final 
response and confirmed it would correct his credit file. 
I think that once NewDay  was aware  of the error, it acted promptly and correctly  in accepting 
responsibility. Im not seeking to downplay the difficulties or frustrations Mr R had  far from 
it. But I can understand why this error  took around three months  to investigate and resolve. 
I recognise that Mr R would have spent  some time in trying to understand how this error was 
caused and in trying to resolve matters with NewDay. But, on balance,  I think  what NewDay  
has offered by way of compensation  makes up for that. Im satisfied its a reasonable 
amount, which  is in line with our approach  in similar scenarios.  
NewDay hasnt been able to give Mr R an explanation as to how the error with his credit file 
occurred. And I can understand why hed want that. Ive seen the efforts  our investigator  
went to in order to try and get that explanation from NewDay. 
In response to that NewDay has stated that, because Mr R hasnt held an account with it, its 
unable to explain how information about him came to be recorded  on his credit  file. I think  
thats a candid and fair admission in the circumstances. I realise that it doesnt go into the 
level of detail Mr R wanted,  or expected. But impartially,  I dont  think  NewDay can say 
anymore about  this error because its clear that it doesnt know what happened  here.
Theres no evidence that Mr R has been  the subject  of fraud.  So, I agree with our 
investigator that the most  reasonable, and plausible, explanation of why this happened  is 
human error. And as our investigator stated it isnt possible to conclude whether this error  
was caused by NewDay or a credit reference  agency.
In conclusion, while I acknowledge Mr Rs strength of feelings  about this complaint, I think 
the overall compensation offered by NewDay is fair in the circumstances. So I wont be 
ordering it to pay any more.
Ref: DRN02464813my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only to the extent  that NewDay Ltd 
should pay Mr R £100 to resolve this complaint. But other than this I dont need it to do 
anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0246481