K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms P say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Ms P took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1998. The MPPI  covered Mr P only. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Ms Ps case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Ps complaint because:
I think its likely that Nationwide made Mr and Ms P aware they had a choice about 
buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. Ive seen samples  of documents that 
were in use by Nationwide at the time.  This included a leaflet which Nationwide says 
wouldve been shown  to Mr and Ms P, to help them decide if the MPPI was right for 
them. The leaflet shows they could choose  between cover for 12 or 24 months  per claim. 
Mr and Ms Ps cover was for 24 months  per claim. So it seems likely that there was a 
discussion about the MPPI and they chose  this level of cover. 
The MPPI only covered Mr P  which again  suggests a choice was made. I think its 
likely that Mr and Ms P chose to set up the policy in this way because Ms P wasnt 
working. I think its less likely  that, as Mr and Ms P suggest, they declined  MPPI and 
Nationwide added  it anyway. Im not suggesting Mr and Ms P are being dishonest  about 
their recollection  but they may not accurately remember what  happened, which is 
understandable given  how long ago it was. 
Nationwide didnt  recommend the MPPI  to Mr and Ms P so it didnt  have to check  if it 
was right for them. 
I think its possible that Nationwide  couldve  explained the cost of the policy  better than it 
did. But even if it had, I think Mr and Ms P would  still have bought  it. Mr P was self-
employed and had no access to sick or redundancy pay. And Mr and Ms P had no 
savings or other way to make their mortgage  repayments at the time of sale. So if Mr P 
had been unable to work they wouldve quickly fallen into arrears on their mortgage, and 
potentially wouldve lost their home.  I think its likely  that Mr and Ms P wouldve thought  
the cost of the MPPI  was worthwhile  in exchange for the protection  it provided  as the 
mortgage wouldve  been paid, plus theyd have received an additional £200 per month  
for up to 24 months if theyd had to claim. 
Ref: DRN09367982Its possible that Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr and Ms P dont appear  to have been affected  by any of those  things. While  Mr P was 
self-employed the MPPI  did cover  him, and it wouldnt have been any harder for him to 
claim because of his self-employed status.  
Ive taken into account Mr and Ms Ps comments,  including what theyve said about Ms P 
being in line to receive almost £400,000 in compensation following an accident. But these 
points dont change  my conclusion. Without the MPPI, Mr and Ms P wouldve had no 
protection against Mr P being unable  to work   until the compensation was received. The 
mortgage was paid off about 15 months  after the mortgage was taken out. So it seems  there  
was a significant period of time where  Mr and Ms P wouldnt have been covered while they 
waited for the compensation. And I think the MPPI  provided useful protection during  that 
time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0936798