K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about five loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr T between November 2014 and 
August 2015.  They  had various borrowing terms between one and three  months and the 
amounts borrowed  ranged  between £100 and £600  with most of Mr Ts borrowing falling 
somewhere between these amounts. 
Heres a loan table setting out details of the loans: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 19/11/2014 26/01/2015 3 £500.00 £283.33
2 12/02/2015 26/03/2015 1 £100.00 £134.40
3 13/04/2015 26/05/2015 3 £250.00 £169.33
4 04/06/2015 26/08/2015 3 £270.00 £139.68
5 31/08/2015 26/09/2016 6 £600.00 £224.80
Mr T said that he started to take out payday loans to get through the month  but they were 
unaffordable and Mr Lender shouldnt have given him these unaffordable  loans. 
To put things right Mr T wants Mr Lender to refund the interest and charges he paid, with 
statutory interest.
Our adjudicators overall view was that he hadnt  seen enough to say it was unfair for 
Mr Lender to have provided  loans1,  2, 3 and 4 to Mr T. But he felt that the pattern of lending  
itself showed that by loan 5 the borrowing  was unsustainable  so Mr Lender shouldnt have 
given Mr T loan 5.
To put things right our adjudicator recommended (Im briefly  summarising  here) that 
Mr Lender should  refund  all interest and charges Mr T had paid on loan 5, plus interest  on 
the refund,  and amend  his credit file to remove all information about this loan from Mr Ts 
credit file.
Mr Lender said it was disappointed by the way the adjudicator had investigated the 
complaint. It mainly said that that it didnt look like the adjudicator  had properly looked at all 
the loans Mr Lender provided  to Mr T and it felt the adjudicators view was overly subjective 
and not properly explained.  Mr Lender requested  an ombudsman  review.  
So the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN08818392Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN08818393Id like to reassure Mr Lender  that the adjudicator looked at each of the loans Mr T took out 
with Mr Lender  and Ive done the same. Ive come  to the same  view as our adjudicator 
about loans 1-4. I think that the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing  loans 1-4 were  
proportionate. The amounts that Mr T needed  to repay wouldve seemed relatively affordable  
compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given these  repayment  amounts, what 
was apparent about Mr Ts circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history at that time 
with Mr Lender, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr T for the 
amount of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first four loans. So Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about loans 1-4. 
But given the particular circumstances of Mr Ts case, I think  by loan 5 Mr Lender should  
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely  to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided  this loan. I say this because at this point Mr Lender ought to have  realised:
Mr T was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Mr T had now taken out 
5 loans since hed first started borrowing from Mr Lender in November 2014,  around 
9 months or so earlier  
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender - loan 5 was 
for £600 and this was the biggest amount hed asked to borrow.  So it wasnt  
reasonable of Mr Lender to think Mr Ts situation had improved and he was now 
asking to borrow because of a new need  for a short term loan. Rather,  it looked  more 
like he had ongoing and long term money problems   and his need  for extra  cash 
appeared to be escalating
Mr Lender  ought to have realised  it was more likely than not Mr T was borrowing 
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances each 
time and that Mr Ts indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
And these  indications of unsustainability  that I've mentioned are borne out by what Ive seen  
on Mr Ts bank  statements. These appear to show that he used this loan the next day to 
make his monthly repayment  to his debt management plan that was arranged with one of the 
debt charities. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr Lender has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Mr Lender shouldve seen that 
Mr Ts indebtedness  was increasing  unsustainably  by the time he took out loan 5  and it 
shouldve realised then that it was unfair to continue  to lending  to him. 
I think that Mr T lost out when Mr Lender  provided  loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.  
I can see that in the event  Mr T repaid loan 5 relatively quickly.  But when Mr Lender 
agreed this loan it was due to run for 6 months  and Mr Lender couldnt  have known  
that Mr T would repay it early  
the length of time over which Mr T borrowed these loans was likely to have  negative  
implications on Mr Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for high-cost  loans. By loan 5, Mr T had already  been  indebted  to Mr Lender  
more or less continuously for more than 7 months in a row. And any further 
borrowing was likely  to be detrimental  to his credit rating.
Ref: DRN08818394So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 5 and Mr Lender should  put things right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loan 5 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid (if they 
were) to the date of settlement
by loan 5, the length  of time that hed been borrowing from Mr Lender means any 
information recorded about this loan is adverse. So all information about loan 5 
should be removed  from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr T as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0881839