K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained about HSBC  Life (UK) Limiteds decision to decline her claim for 
benefit under her employers group income  protection insurance policy.
background
Mrs F was a member of her employers group income protection insurance  policy  which was 
held with HSBC.  In June 2017, Mrs Fs employer made a claim under the policy on her 
behalf. It said she had been unable to work  since January 2017 due to stress  at work.  
HSBC noted that Mrs F had been suspended from work at the time her stress developed. It 
concluded from the evidence that her absence was due to work-related issues rather  than a 
medical condition  and declined the claim.
Mrs F appealed against the decision and provided further information  from her GP. 
HSBC maintained its decision to decline the claim.  It noted  that in May 2017 Mrs Fs GP said 
she was suffering from anxiety and depression  but it considered she hadnt shown she was 
medically prevented  from working before then. It further said the policy  required  her to be 
actively at work immediately before her initial absence and, because  she hadnt been  
actively at work for some months  before May 2017, it concluded her claim wasnt  eligible.
Mrs F was unhappy at HSBCs decision.  She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
HSBCs decision  was fair.
Mrs F didnt  accept the investigators findings.  The matter has therefore been referred to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy will pay benefit,  after a waiting period of 26 weeks,  if Mrs F is unable  to perform 
the material and substantial duties of her own occupation due to illness  or injury.  However,  
the policy contains a provision specifically  stating that stress or workplace stress isnt 
considered to be an illness or injury for the purposes of the policy.  The policy also has a 
clause stating that for a claim to be made, Mrs F must be actively at work when the illness or 
injury causing her incapacity commences. Actively at work is described as follows:
A Member shall be Actively at Work if that person is present at their place of work and is 
medically capable  of performing the normal duties required  by the job for which  they are 
employed and has not received medical advice to refrain from work and is working their 
Contracted Hours.
Any Member  on Annual /maternity/paternity  or adoption leave will be considered  Actively  at 
Work if the requirements detailed above  were fulfilled on the day immediately preceding that 
Member starting their annual  / maternity/paternity or adoption leave
Ref: DRN02990622Mrs F was suspended from work in November 2016.
In January 2017, her employer lifted the suspension (Mrs F disputes this and says she 
remained suspended  until May 2017 but her employer has given the earlier date so this is 
the date I am using). When the suspension  was lifted, Mrs F remained off work  because she 
was certified by her GP as unfit to work due to a finger injury and stress at work. However, 
the evidence shows that Mrs F was discharged  from the hand clinic during January 2017 
with a near normal range of movement in her finger so I cant see why this injury should 
have prevented her from working. And as explained  above, her work-related stress isnt 
classed as an illness for the purposes  of the policy. I therefore conclude  that Mrs F wasnt 
incapacitated under the terms of the policy at the time her suspension was lifted.
The earliest that Mrs F could be considered to meet the policys  definition of incapacity  was 
in May 2017  when her GP diagnosed  her with anxiety and depression.  But this was some six 
months after she had last been  actively at work.  I dont think it matters that the reason she 
stopped being actively at work was due to a suspension imposed by her employer.  The fact 
is she stopped  being actively at work before she developed anxiety and depression and so, 
as she hadnt  in the meantime returned  to being actively  at work, she wasnt  eligible to claim 
under the policy.  For this reason, it doesnt actually matter whether her suspension  ended  in 
January 2017  as her employer says, or in May 2017  as Mrs F says. The important point is 
that she wasnt incapacitated by her condition at the time the suspension began.   
I may have  looked sympathetically at Mrs Fs claim if she had been suffering from workplace 
stress at the time she was suspended. This is because it seems the anxiety and depression 
developed from her workplace stress. However, the medical evidence makes no reference to 
her suffering  workplace  stress immediately before the suspension. Instead, it appears from 
the medical evidence that it was rather the suspension which led to Mrs F complaining  of 
workplace stress.
In view of the above, I think  it was fair for HSBC to decline Mrs Fs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0299062