K821x#15complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited has handled a claim under her 
buildings insurance  policy and the settlement it's offered.
background
Mrs W made a claim to Ageas.  There was a leak in her bathroom which had been specially 
fitted for use by her two disabled daughters.
It was agreed that Mrs W, her husband  and her disabled daughters would stay with her other 
daughter while her property was being repaired.  Ageas  agreed  to pay an allowance of £10 a 
day for the four of them  while they were away from their home. In July 2016 Ageas paid for a 
stair lift to be installed in the other  daughter's  property  so that it was suitable for Mrs Ws 
disabled daughters. It then carried out the repairs.
Mrs W isn't satisfied  that Ageas has repaired the bathroom so that the shower and bath are 
accessible to her daughters as they were previously. She provided Ageas with a report  that 
backed up her complaint  Ageas didnt  agree.
Mrs W brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint. 
Amongst other things she thought Ageas should:
appoint  an independent surveyor to review  the works and arrange for any further works 
recommended by the surveyor  to be carried out;
continue  to cover the rental costs of the stair lift until the claim is finalised and make a 
back payment if previous months' rent has not been paid;
make a payment for the disturbance allowance at Ageas'  standard  rate for Mrs Ws 
husband in addition to the amounts  already  paid;  and
pay Mrs W £750 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused to her.
Both parties  accepted her findings.  Mrs W obtained  a further report.  But Ageas hasn't 
agreed to carry out all the works recommended by the expert. In June 2018 it offered a cash 
settlement of £940 to lower the bath and make  good  the tiling around the bath.
Mrs W wasn't happy with this offer because she wasn't sure how much it would cost her to 
have this work done. She says she and her daughters have now been  staying at her 
daughter's house for over two years instead  of the month originally planned because of the 
lack of accessible bathroom facilities in their home. This has been extremely stressful for 
her.
She thinks Ageas should continue to pay the disturbance allowance  since she's had to incur 
various additional expenses while staying in her daughter's property.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. An 
extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In deciding  whether Ageas has treated Mrs W fairly  I'm looking at how Ageas handled 
matters up to 25 June  2018 when it made its cash settlement offer.
Ref: DRN08698342Under the terms of the policy Ageas had the option of repairing the damage to Mrs Ws 
property or paying  her the repair costs. It chose  to carry out the repairs.  Our approach  to this 
type of complaint is clear and long standing. In general we say that insurers are responsible  
for poor repairs if the repairer was approved  or appointed by them.
In the course  of this complaint Ageas agreed that Mrs W could use the expert who provided 
the further report recommended by our investigator.  After reviewing the report  Ageas said:
"The report makes  a lot of recommendations to assist with the stated disabilities, but it needs 
to be borne in mind  that this was a standard bathroom, reinstated back to the same  as 
existed prior to the damage,  with no specific requirements from the Insured to reinstate it in a 
different manner."
I'm not persuaded that this is correct.  It's clear  to me that Mrs W was well-informed  of the 
many adjustments which were in place in the original bathroom to make it accessible to her 
daughters and she did her best to make sure Ageas and its contractors  were  aware  of them  
as well. Because of the difficulty in obtaining some of the fitments  that were  needed, she 
found these herself  for its contractor. So I think this was far from being a "standard
bathroom" and Mrs W went to a lot of trouble to make Ageas aware of what was required to 
reinstate the bathroom to what it had been previously.
I also don't  think Ageas  has treated  Mrs W fairly in agreeing to the appointment of the third 
expert and then disagreeing with the expert's findings regarding the bath and shower.  In 
order to treat Mrs W fairly  I think it should  either  carry  out the works required by the 
independent expert  to the bath and shower (other than replacing  the shower seat disposed 
of by Mrs W) or pay Mrs Ws costs in having  such  works carried  out.
The independent expert has explained why the bathroom as repaired by Ageas is unsuitable 
for use by Mrs Ws disabled daughters.  Without usable bathroom  facilities  for them I think  it's 
understandable that Mrs W and her family  haven't been able to move  back  home. Since  I've 
found that Ageas is at fault for not reinstating  her bathroom properly, it follows that I think  
Ageas should  continue  to pay a disturbance allowance at the rate of £10 a day for Mrs W, 
her husband  and two daughters until the bathroom  is reinstated properly. It should also 
continue to cover the rental costs of the stair lift until the claim is finalised and make  a back  
payment if previous months have  not been  paid.
I can't award compensation  for the stress and inconvenience suffered by anyone  other  than 
Mrs W herself but I do take into account  the effect that the suffering of her family  would  have 
on Mrs W. Up to June 2018 Mrs W and her family  had been out of their home for almost two 
years. During this time Mrs W has had the stress  and inconvenience  of caring for her 
daughters in difficult living conditions. She has had to chase Ageas constantly to repair her 
bathroom properly.  She's also been out of pocket with various living  expenses. Taking all 
this into account  and the effect it's had on Mrs W, 1 think in addition to the compensation 
already paid Ageas should  pay Mrs W a further £1,250 to compensate her for this. 
responses to my provisional  findings
In summary  Ageas  said:
it agreed to pay for the required works to the bath and shower  as outlined in the experts 
report and asked  that Mrs W should send it at least two separate  estimates for its 
Ref: DRN08698343consideration as soon  as possible. It thought it would be better if Mrs W used her own 
contractors.
it queried why a disturbance allowance should  be paid as Mrs W had access to cooking  
facilities in her daughters  home  and it wasnt aware of any additional  living expenses.
 it would continue  to pay for the stair lift upon receipt of the invoices.
it accepted my finding that it should pay a further  £1,250 compensation.
In summary  Mrs W made the following  points:
Ageas hadnt paid a disturbance allowance since 21 December 2016 when Mrs W and 
her disabled  daughters  had to move back home in order  for her other  daughter to have 
various works  carried out at her property.  They  moved  back  to the daughters  house on 1 
March 2017. 
She listed their additional expenses whilst  living with her daughter  which included buying 
takeaway meals more frequently since they didnt have  the same  cooking facilities as at 
home and couldnt store as much  food since a lot of space in her daughters fridge was 
taken up by medication for her disabled daughters and it was smaller than her fridge at 
home.
Shed had additional  energy costs since her daughter worked long hours  and so didnt 
have her heating  on during  the day. In addition they needed to continue  heating their 
home to prevent  it from becoming damp;
She has made additional car journeys for food shopping and back  and fro to her property 
every day to charge  her daughters electric wheelchair at the end of every day and collect  
it in the morning.
She had to buy various items  to make her daughters  house  suitable for her disabled  
daughters. 
Shed had a quote of £336 for removal costs  to move all the various items accumulated in 
her daughters house back to her property.
We sent a copy of the removal quote  to Ageas. It said it would pay this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ageas has agreed to pay for the additional  works, the stair lift, the compensation and 
removal costs, the main outstanding issue for me to decide is whether Ageas should pay 
Mrs W and her family a disturbance allowance from 1 March  2017 until the time when they 
can move  back  home.
A disturbance allowance isnt compensation for inconvenience. Its compensation for actual 
extra costs  a consumer  has incurred by choosing not to stay in alternative accommodation at 
the insurers expense. Typical  reasonable expenses we often see include extra food and 
travel expenses. Im satisfied that Mrs W has incurred these. I also think its reasonable for 
Ageas to pay for the additional items  such as fans to adapt her daughters house for her 
disabled daughters. For the period  in question it would  be time-consuming and difficult for 
Mrs W to evidence all these separate expenses. So I think  its fair and reasonable to require 
Ageas to pay the industry standard rate of £10 per day for each adult  (being  £40 a day in 
this case) for the period  they need  to stay in her daughters house.
Ref: DRN08698344my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
carry out the works to the bath and shower  referred to above or pay Mrs Ws costs for 
having such  works carried out;
continue  to pay a disturbance allowance at the rate of £40 a day from 1 March  2017 until 
the date when the bathroom can reasonably be expected to have been reinstated 
properly;
continue  to cover the rental costs of the stair lift until claim is finalised and make a back 
payment if previous  months rent has not been  paid; 
pay removal costs  of £336;and
pay £1,250 (in addition  to the £750  previously paid) as compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mrs W by its claim handling.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0869834