K821x#15complaint
Mr G, represented by a claims management company (CMC),  complains that Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent money to him that he couldnt afford 
to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Satsuma  Loans provided Mr G with six loans between 
September 2016 and September 2018.
Loan Amount Date Term Repaid
1 £100.00 24 September 2016 13 Weeks 26 December 2016
2 £600.00 27 May 2017 6 Months 20 June 2017
3 £700.00 1 July 2017 9 Months 28 April 2018
4 £750.00 10 October 2017 10 Months 10 May 2018
5 £500.00 16 July 2018 6 Months 30 August 2018
6 £400.00 15 September 2018 12 Months outstanding
Mr G says that at the time of the loans he was in a debt spiral.  He says the loans were  
unaffordable and that adequate checks werent  carried out before the loans were  provided. 
Satsuma Loans  says that Mr G confirmed at the point of application that the repayments  
were sustainable  and affordable. It says that it gathered information  about Mr Gs income 
and expenses as well as comparing the information  to external data sources.  It also carried  
out credit  checks.  Satsuma Loans says that based  on its check  the loans were provided  
responsibly.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. She didnt think she had enough to say that 
loans one to four shouldnt have been  provided.  However she thought  that by the time loan 
five was provided, Mr Gs borrowing pattern suggested he had become persistently reliant 
on short-term loans.  
Satsuma Loans  responded to our adjudicators view. It said that although Mr G applied  for 
four loans in 2017 only three  were  granted. It said that although the amounts borrowed did 
increase over the first few loans,  the amount borrowed in loans five and six decreased.  It 
also said that the loans were  repaid  on time.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN02456532But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr G could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had enough  to say that loans one to four shouldnt have 
been provided. I have  looked through the information and I agree with this.
However by the time the fifth loan was provided,  Mr G had been borrowing from Satsuma 
Loans for around 22 months. His first four loans all increased in amounts. While I note there 
were some gaps in his borrowing I dont  think  it would  have been reasonable for Satsuma 
Loans to conclude these were any indication  that Mr Gs finances had moved  on from 
whatever situation  had required  his previous  loans.
The fifth and sixth loans were for amounts lower than loans two to four. However, I dont 
think this showed  Mr G was getting  his debt under control. On balance I find that Mr Gs 
pattern of borrowing by loan five should  have raised concerns. I think  it suggested  he wasnt  
managing his money and had become reliant  on short  term loans. Because  of this I uphold  
this complaint in regard  to loans five and six. 
Ref: DRN02456533my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  five and six. Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr G paid on loans five and six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
write off unpaid interest  on loan six and apply the refund towards  the outstanding 
balance and pay the remaining to Mr G;
the number  of loans taken from loan five means  any information  recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  the loans five and six should be removed from Mr Gs 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Satsuma Loans  must  give Mr G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0245653