K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank plc is holding him responsible for a number 
of payments that he did not make or authorise  and which have left him with a debt of some 
£6,400.
background
Mr E had a number of accounts with NatWest. Over the course of one day in September 
2017 a large number  of payments were made to and from five accounts  he held, as well as 
between those accounts. The transactions were made using  a combination  of mobile and 
online banking. In some  cases, payments from accounts were  accompanied by identical 
payments in, sometimes from other accounts held by Mr E. 
Mr E contacted the bank to say that he did not recognise the activity  on his accounts.  While 
he was not (according  to the banks  records) entirely  consistent about which transactions he 
was disputing, it appears that there  were around 25 payments to or from his accounts  that 
he didnt recognise;  where a transfer  was made from one of Mr Es accounts to another of 
his accounts,  Ive treated that as both a payment out and a payment  in. The bank did not 
accept that Mr E knew nothing about  the payments, however.  It decided  to close  his 
accounts and transfer the remaining debit balances totalling around £6,400 to his savings 
account and to seek his proposals  for payment. 
Mr E complained to this service about  the banks actions. One of our adjudicators  
considered what  hed said, but concluded that she couldnt safely  say he wasnt  responsible 
for the payments. Mr E didnt accept her conclusions and asked that they be reviewed by an 
ombudsman  as the final stage in our process.    
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator did. 
A customer wishing to set up a new payee using online banking needs  their online banking 
details, debit card, PIN and card reader. They need  the same things to change their own 
details on the account, including contact  details. The banks records  show that the mobile  
phoned linked to Mr Es account was changed  a few days  before the disputed  transactions 
took place. Mr E acknowledges that he made  that change, and I note in any event that the 
new number is that which he provided  to this service. 
Just over three hours  later a new payee  was set up on the account. That payee received at 
least some  of the funds  transferred a few days later. Given that Mr E had changed  his phone 
number on the same day, I think it likely  that he also set up the new payee. That is, in my 
view, inconsistent with Mr Es suggestion that he knew nothing about the payments. 
In any event, if someone unknown to Mr E had been  able to set themselves up as a payee 
(or set someone else up as a payee) in the way Ive described, Id expect them  to make a 
payment almost immediately. But it was another four days  until the payments took place. I 
note as well that the bank  sent a message to Mr Es mobile phone to tell him that a new 
payee had been set up. He may have overlooked that, of course,  but on balance I think  he 
probably knew about the new payee.  
Ref: DRN06675352Mr E told the bank that he lost his card a few days before the disputed  transactions  took 
place. But, by itself,  that would not have enabled a third party  to access  his account. They 
would still have needed his online banking details. Mr E hasnt been consistent  on this point 
 he initially said he didnt  keep  those details on his laptop but later said he did. But he 
hasnt explained  how someone who had his card might also have had access  to his laptop.  
Even if they did, they would also need  his PIN; Mr E says he didnt  keep this written down 
anywhere, and the banks  records  show that hed changed it (presumably to a number he 
could remember and didnt need  to write down)  some years earlier.  
As Ive indicated, some of the payments were made by mobile phone.  That would only have 
been possible using  the phone Mr E had registered  on his accounts. But he hasnt  
suggested that phone went missing or explained how anyone  could have  used it without his 
knowledge. 
I cant say for certain that Mr E made the various  payments that hes disputing. I do believe 
though that he knows  rather more about  them than hes told the bank or this service.  In the 
circumstances, it would  not be fair to make NatWest refund them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank plc to do anything  more to 
resolve Mr Es complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr E to accept  or reject my decision before 13 September 2019. 
.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0667535