K820x#14complaint
Mr Es godson  is currently living  abroad  and cant be located.  
Hes unhappy that in the circumstances  Forester Life Limited  wont  close down his godsons 
bond and pay him the proceeds. 
background
In 2004, Mr E set up bonds with Childrens Mutual  for his two children and godson. Since 
2013, the bonds have  been administered by Forester under the same terms and conditions.  
Mr E had planned to cash-in the bonds  when his children and godson turned 18  and 
surprise them with the money. But because this wasnt  possible  as the bonds  didnt  legally 
belong to him and he wouldnt  be able to decide  after his godson  reached the age of 18 
when it should  be surrendered  he asked Forester to surrender the bonds. 
Forester surrendered  the two bonds  belonging to Mr Es children but refused to do so in 
relation to his godson. Instead  it sent the relevant  form to Mr Es godsons  address as 
displayed on the bond application  form. 
Mr E says his godson hasnt lived at the address since 2006 and is currently living  abroad. 
Because his godson cant be located,  he feels that the fairest solution would be for Forester  
to pay him the proceeds as hes the only one whos paid into the bond over the years. 
Mr Es very unhappy that Forester wont do this, and says he wouldnt have set up the bond 
if he knew this was the case. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The bonds have  always been  underwritten by the Friendly Societies Act (FSA) 
whore also responsible for setting the terms and conditions.   
The FSA has confirmed that the terms and conditions havent changed since the 
bond was set up. 
Despite Mr Es intention to surprise his children  and godson  on their 18th birthdays, 
this isnt possible given  the way that these bonds  were  set up. 
These bonds  commonly known as Baby  Bonds  were  taken  out in the childs 
name and belonged  to the child despite  Mr E paying into them 
After the child reached 16, his or her parent/guardian can no longer make  changes,  
without the childs  involvement. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest that Mr E could cash in the bond on behalf of the legal 
bondholder. 
oHe said that the application form made  clear:  
the bond is the childs property. They will receive the proceeds when 
the plan ends, provided they are 16 years  old. Otherwise, we will pay 
the proceeds to their parent  or guardian on their behalf.
The Key Features Document (KFD) made  clear:
A Baby Bond confers membership on the child, not the person 
making the payments.
Annual statements   sent by Forester Life (and Childrens Mutual  also explained 
what would happen when the child turned 16.
Ref: DRN01994752Despite Mr Es godson not living in the country and Mr Es concern that the bond  
proceeds might be paid to an unauthorised person, thatd be for his godson to 
complain about as hes not an eligible complainant. 
Because the terms and conditions havent changed  since  the bond was taken out, 
shes unable to say that the business  has done anything  wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr E says, Im not persuaded that 
the business has done anything wrong in the circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Es strength of feeling about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr E and Forester,  and reach what I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Forester made reasonably  
clear that the bond belonged to the child in whose name it was set up, regardless of who set 
it up or paid money  into it. 
Despite what Mr E says Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the terms and conditions  have 
changed since the inception of the bonds, therefore if Mr E failed to read the terms and 
conditions when the bonds  were  set up I cant blame  Forester for this.   
Im satisfied that it was always  the case that the money paid into the bond was simply  a gift 
for the benefit  of the child  held in trust by the parent or guardian  until the child becomes 
of age. I note the application was made by Mr E but that doesnt  make the bond his, it was 
done so on behalf of his godson. 
 
Under Foresters terms and conditions, the person setting up the bond  or paying into it, has 
no legal  claim to any of its proceeds.  And  certainly  not any automatic claim if the child cant 
be contacted when they become of age.  
Ref: DRN01994753I understand that Mr E was able to surrender his childrens bonds  because he is the parent 
and theyre not of age. But hes not the parent or legal guardian of his godson and therefore 
is unable to exercise that level of right. 
I understand that under the terms and conditions of the bond, the parent/guardian can only 
make changes until the child is 16, and thereafter  any decision to change  must involve the 
child until the age of 18, when the child is an adult and has full legal right over the bond  and 
Forester no longer needs to liaise with the parent or guardian. 
 
I appreciate its a difficult situation  with Forester unable to locate/contact Mr Es godson. But 
as matters stand this doesnt change the legal basis upon which the bond  was set up  so 
the proceeds still legally belong to Mr Es godson (not Mr E) even though his godson cant  
be contacted.  
 
Theres no legal justification to enable Forester to simply hand over the proceeds to Mr E  
even if it wanted  to  just because he set up the bond or paid into it. This has no bearing on 
the continued legal ownership  of the bond. So whilst I acknowledge that Mr E paid into the 
bond in good faith, it was never on the agreement that hed have any claim on the money.  
I appreciate Mr E will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask Forester to do anything different.   
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr E 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0199475