K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this. I say this 
having seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  application which included a section for 
PPI. In this I can see that several selections were  made in relation to the type and amount of 
cover required. But there  was also the option  to state why the cover wasnt needed. So I 
think Mr and Mrs M wouldve known the policy was optional. Mr and Mrs M say that they 
were told that PPI was a good policy to have  as it provided security  and peace of mind. But 
this doesnt mean the PPI wasnt optional. Mr and Mrs M signed  the mortgage  application  
form  so I think this reflected what they wanted at the time. 
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide recommend  the PPI to them. Nationwide  says it didnt provide 
any advice at the time. As things stand, there  isnt enough information  to determine this 
point. But being  able to do so isnt crucial to the outcome because,  had Nationwide 
recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been  a suitable recommendation to have made  
for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered the complaint as an advised sale.
As a recommended  sale Nationwide wouldve had to check  that the PPI was right for Mr and 
Mrs M  and based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Ive seen evidence  that Mr and Mrs M wouldve received  some  sick pay from their employers 
if they were too unwell to work.  But upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up 
to 12 months, and on top of the sick pay they were entitled to. And as Mr and Mrs M had two 
dependants at the time, I think  they wouldve benefited from being able to use their sick pay 
for other expenses. Mr and Mrs M also say that if one of them was unable  to work, the other 
couldve kept up the repayments.  But as the mortgage is likely to have been their biggest 
financial commitment at the time, I think the PPI provided them with some  additional security 
in the event that one or even both of them were unable to work. So I still think  the PPI was 
suitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs M say that the 12 month free period was designed to entice them and they were  
not aware of the cost of the policy once the free period had come to an end. But Ive seen 
that their mortgage offer informed  them that the PPI will become payable after the initial  12 
months. Ive also seen a copy  of a PPI schedule that was sent to Mr and Mrs M before the 
PPI became chargeable. This document outlines  the monthly PPI premiums payable  for the 
Ref: DRN06497812year ahead  so I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve known about the cost of the PPI at the point 
they were required  to start paying for it. 
Its possible some of the other information  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs  to give Mr and Mrs M some  of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and 
Mrs Ms mortgage became a regulated  mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Nationwide doesnt  need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI 
they had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0649781