K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Mrs K have complained about  the way their home  insurance  policy  was 
administered by IGO4  Limited.
background
Mr P and Mrs K took out a policy through IGO4  in 2012. The policy  was renewed every year 
up to and including 24 May 2017. They paid the premium in instalments by direct  debit. 
IGO4 didnt collect the payments itself but used a finance company to do so.
Around May 2017 IGO4 changed finance company. The next direct  debit payment failed. 
Mr P paid the instalment by card instead.
On 28 June 2017 Mr Ps bank wrote to him saying that it hadnt made a payment of £28.91 
to IGO4s finance company because a direct  debit hadnt been  set up in favour of that 
company. The next day Mr P contacted  IGO4.  It said its finance company would try again 
and if the direct debit  still didnt go through, he should make  payment by card. 
On 30 June 2017 IGO4 emailed Mr P again  to say thered been a problem with the payment. 
It said his policy could  be cancelled if it didnt hear from him within the next 7 days. It also 
left a voicemail message for him.
On 10 July 2017 IGO4  emailed Mr P to say that his policy had been cancelled as at that 
date. It said he had an outstanding balance of £213.40. This was broken down as:
Cost of insurance cover* 152.30
Optional Extras    29.99
Cancellation Fee   60.00
 242.29
Less amount paid in instalments    28.89
Balance due            £213.40
*The cost of insurance cover included  £69.86  commission  and £50.41 interest. 
Mr P was unhappy that the policy had been cancelled.  After he complained to IGO4,  it said it 
would remove the cancellation fee. It collected the sum of £213.40 by card in July.
Mr P and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service. IGO4  agreed that it hadnt removed 
the cancellation fee as promised in its final response  letter  and that the interest  had been 
incorrectly charged. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She didnt think it was fair that the policy had been 
cancelled. She recommended that IGO4 should calculate the balance  of premium  due, 
based on the pro rata charge for the period of cover provided, which  she understood was 
£32.03 and refund Mr P and Mrs K the difference between that and the amount collected by 
card, plus 8% interest  calculated from the date of cancellation to the date of settlement. She 
also said IGO4 should remove details of the cancellation from any internal  and external  
databases and pay £50 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused.
As IGO4 didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me. 
Ref: DRN09887772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
IGO4 was entitled under its terms and conditions to cancel  the policy if the premium 
instalments werent  paid.  But I dont think it treated Mr P and Mrs K fairly and reasonably by 
doing so in this case. Ill explain why.
Mr P had taken the initiative to contact IGO4 about the failed payment on 29 June 2017. He 
clearly didnt want the policy to be cancelled and was trying to get the problem sorted  out. 
Theres nothing to show that it was Mr P and Mrs Ks fault that the direct debit payment 
failed and the finance company waived the default fees it would normally have charged for 
failed payments. I appreciate that Mr P and Mrs K didnt respond to the email from IGO4  
sent on 30 June  2017 (which they say they didnt receive)  or the voicemail message. But the 
letter only told Mr P that the policy could be cancelled not that it would be cancelled if he 
did nothing. It wouldnt have been  unreasonable for Mr P to assume that since hed raised 
the issue with IGO4 it wouldnt actually cancel the policy in his case.
The next communication told Mr P and Mrs K that the policy had been cancelled. Due to the 
implications of having a policy cancelled (the policyholder having to declare this when taking 
out insurance and usually  paying higher premiums as a result),  I think  it would have been 
only fair for IGO4 to contact Mr P and Mrs K again before cancelling the policy. If it had, 
I think its likely Mr P would once again  have paid the instalment by card as hed done 
promptly the previous  month.
The cancellation has caused Mr P and Mrs K a financial loss even if IGO4  waives  the 
interest and cancellation fee because of the commission charge and charge for optional  
extras. In order to treat Mr P and Mrs K fairly I think IGO4 should only charge them  a 
proportionate amount  of the premium  for the period when  they were  covered by the policy. 
IGO4 agrees  that this would be £32.03. It should deduct this amount  from the sum of 
£213.40 which it charged to a card and refund the balance of £181.37 plus interest.
I also think IGO4  should  remove the record of the cancellation from Mr P and Mrs Ks record  
so that they neednt inform future  insurers of the cancellation.
Lastly having their policy  cancelled will have caused them a degree of trouble and upset. I 
think the sum of £50 is appropriate to compensate them for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require IGO4 Limited  to:
pay Mr P and Mrs K £181.37 plus simple interest* at 8% per year calculated  from the date 
of cancellation  to the date of settlement; 
remove details of the cancellation  from any internal and external databases; and 
pay Mr P and Mrs K £50 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused.
Ref: DRN09887773Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If IGO4  Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr P and Mrs K how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr P and Mrs K a certificate  showing  this 
if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0988777