K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that he lost out when he sent money overseas due to incorrect information 
given by Barclays Bank UK PLC. To settle matters hed like compensation for the shortfall.
background
Mr K went  to a branch  of Barclays to transfer  money overseas. He says he was told international 
transfers couldnt be done  in branch  so hed have to complete the transfer through online 
banking.
Mr K wanted  to transfer the money  in sterling. But he says this wasnt possible because he 
couldnt de-select the online  default option of sending  the money  in euros.
Its not entirely clear, but he says whilst the online transfer was being  completed  either he or his 
brother went back to the branch to find out why the option to send the transfer in sterling  couldnt 
be selected. He said they were told to transfer in euros and the money  would automatically  be 
received in sterling  as both Mr Ks account and the recipients account were sterling  accounts. 
Mr K later found out that the recipient received less money than they were  expecting and hed 
like the shortfall refunding.
Mr K complained to Barclays but it said it hadnt made an error. Barclays  confirmed that its 
possible to do international transfers in branch. It says it gave Mr K the option of doing the 
transfer in branch  for which it would charge  a fee  or doing it online  for free.
Barclays said the reason for the shortfall was because Mr K selected euros  he completed the 
online transfer. This meant the funds  were converted to euros but - because the recipients 
account was a sterling account - the euros were converted  back into sterling.
Unhappy with Barclays response Mr K referred his complaint  to our service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should  be upheld. He thought Mr K chose  to make the 
transfer through online banking. He thought the option to change the currency to sterling was 
clear and visible. He also noted that he hadnt seen  anything to suggest Mr Ks brother was told 
to go ahead  and complete  the transfer in euros.
Mr K disagrees with the investigators view. He says if he sent the money  in euros  it should have  
been received by the recipient in euros rather than sterling. He also says Barclays should have 
stopped the transaction or asked  him for authorisation. In response, the investigator said he 
wouldnt expect Barclays to stop the transaction or ask for authorisation  because Mr K had 
selected for the money to be sent in euros.  The investigator thought  it was clear the money had 
been sent in euros and converted into sterling  because conversion charges were applied.
Mr K has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I broadly agree with the 
investigators opinion.
I have no way of knowing  for certain whether Barclays  told Mr K that it couldnt do an 
international transfer in branch. But based on the information  Ive seen I think Mr K was 
given the choice of completing the transfer  in the branch  and paying a fee  or doing it 
himself for free through online banking. I say this because Barclays  had nothing to gain by 
Ref: DRN06108682telling him it couldnt  do this  in the sense that it was losing out on charging on a fee. On 
balance, I think its more  likely than not that Mr K chose to complete the transfer  online.
Its not clear whether  it was Mr K or his brother who went back to the branch to find out why 
the transfer couldnt be sent in sterling. But I havent seen anything to support that Mr K or 
his brother were told to continue with the transfer  in euros.
Ive seen a screen  print to show what Mr K wouldve seen whilst completing the transfer. 
This clearly gives the option to select the currency in which  the money is to be sent. The 
screen later provides  a summary  to show the amount  and currency  which  have been 
selected and it also gives a summary of the amount the payee will receive  and in which  
currency. Based on this I think its more likely than not that Mr K selected euros  and he will 
have seen this to be the case  in the summary  section. Im satisfied the money was sent in 
euros because the advice  slip for the transfer  confirms this.
Based on everything  Ive seen I cant fairly say theres been any bank error or that Barclays 
has treated Mr K unfairly. And Im satisfied the reason for the shortfall is because when  Mr K 
completed the online transfer he asked for the money to be sent in euros. This meant the funds 
were converted to euros initially but - because  the recipients account was a sterling  account - 
the euros were converted back  into sterling.
Id also like to make clear that I wouldnt be able to award compensation in these circumstances 
in any event.  I say this because Mr K hasnt lost out financially. Here,  its the recipient that 
received less than they were expecting. But Im afraid thats not Mr Ks financial loss.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0610868