K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Mrs M have  complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed their foreign currency 
accounts and converted  the funds  that were in the accounts from US dollars to sterling as a 
result of which they suffered a loss.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 9 April 2020.  A copy of this is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I invited both parties to let me have any further  
comments and evidence.
Mr H and Mrs M didnt  accept my provisional decision. They think  HSBC should  compensate  
them for the full amount of their loss. They say I didnt take into consideration the fact that 
their accounts were fixed deposit  accounts rather than regular current  accounts.
HSBC said it didnt  have  anything further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  the points raised by Mr H and Mrs M but Im not persuaded they are 
sufficient to cause  me to change my decision. I dont think its significant that the accounts  
were fixed  deposit accounts.  Its possible that Mr H and Mrs M wouldnt have expected to 
receive as many statements for fixed deposit  accounts as they would have received for 
current accounts. But the last correspondence  they received from HSBC about the accounts 
was in January  2016 and I would have expected them to question  why they hadnt received 
anything after that date. The fixed deposit accounts were governed by their terms and 
conditions which gave  HSBC an option to close them.  
Mr H and Mrs M havent provided any more information about why correspondence  sent to 
PO Box A both by HSBC and by this service had been returned. So I still dont consider I 
could reasonably decide that, if HSBC had sent the notices of closure to PO Box A, Mr H 
and Mrs M would definitely have received them. Consequently, my decision that the fairest 
outcome would be for the loss to be shared equally  remains  unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision  my final decision is that I uphold  
this complaint. I require  HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr H and Mrs M an amount in US dollars  
equal to half of the difference  between the balances of their accounts immediately before 
they were closed and the amount they received when they converted  the sterling back to US 
dollars in January 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08271842Copy of provisional  decision
background
Mr H and Mrs M dont  live in the UK. They used to have  two accounts  with HSBC  in which they held 
US dollars. In December  2017 the combined  balances held in the accounts  was in excess of one 
million US dollars.
HSBC says it wrote to Mr H and Mrs M in December 2017 to tell them  it had decided  to withdraw the 
types of account they held and it was going  to close them.  It converted  the balances held in the 
accounts to sterling when they were closed and it sent Mr H and Mrs M cheques for the amounts in 
sterling.
Mr H and Mrs M say they didnt  receive  the letters telling  them  their accounts  were  going  to be closed 
or the letters enclosing the cheques.  The cheques were never  presented for payment. In January 
2019 Mr H and Mrs M wanted to transfer funds from the accounts to another account they held with a 
different bank in the HSBC Group but outside the UK. They then discovered the accounts had been 
closed.
HSBC transferred the funds in sterling to the other bank and Mr H and Mrs M converted  them  back  to 
US dollars. As a result of fluctuations in the exchange rate between  sterling  and the US dollar, the 
amount Mr H and Mrs M received after conversion back to US dollars  was approximately  one hundred  
and twenty thousand US dollars less than the amounts they had held in their accounts before  they 
were closed.
Mr H and Mrs M complained to HSBC.  It didnt uphold their complaint because  it said it had written to 
them at an address  it held for them  and hadnt  made an error. Mr H and Mrs M werent happy with 
HSBCs response  and referred their complaint  to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  They didnt think  it would be fair to 
hold HSBC  responsible for the events leading to Mr H and Mrs Ms loss.
Mr H and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As a matter of principle,  HSBC is entitled to close customers  accounts. But it must do this in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the accounts and take reasonable steps to ensure  
customers dont suffer any loss as a result  of the closures.
HSBC says it held two addresses for Mr H and Mrs M. They were  both PO boxes and Ill refer to them  
as PO Box A and PO Box B. HSBC says PO Box A was the address associated with 
Mr H and Mrs Ms accounts  and it had sent statements for the accounts to PO Box A. It says PO Box 
B was an alternative  address held on its customer details system.  HSBC says correspondence it had 
sent to both PO Boxes had been  returned  undelivered  before it decided to close the accounts. It sent 
the letter  giving notice of closure  and the letters enclosing the cheques  to PO Box B.
Mr H and Mrs M say PO Box A is their mailbox where they receive personal  correspondence. They  
say PO Box B doesnt belong  to them and never has. Ive asked HSBC  if it has any evidence showing 
Mr H and Mrs M actually gave it PO Box B as their correspondence address.  It says it doesnt have 
any evidence because the address was last updated in 1998.
Ive only seen  one letter HSBC says it sent to PO Box B. It was sent in October 2016 and HSBC says 
it was returned. I havent  been given copies of any letters HSBC sent to PO Box B before the 
Ref: DRN08271843accounts were closed  that werent returned. Mr H and Mrs M have provided a copy of a document 
HSBC sent to PO Box A that wasnt returned to HSBC  and they did receive it. That document was 
sent in January 2016.  HSBC says it sent statements PO Box A in June 2014,  December 2014, June 
2015 and December 2016 that were returned.
On the evidence  Ive seen, the most recent correspondence HSBC sent to Mr H and Mrs M that 
wasnt returned  was the document  it sent in January 2016. Given this, I think  it would have been 
preferable for HSBC to send  the letters regarding the closure of the accounts to PO Box A.
Even if HSBC had sent the correspondence about  the closure of the accounts to PO Box A, I think  its 
still likely  it wouldnt have been received by Mr H and Mrs M. This service sent a letter to them 
addressed to PO Box A in June 2019. That letter was returned to us the following month. Mr H says 
he contacted the post office that administers  PO Box A about this and the registrar explained  to him 
that international mails that require signature  could be returned to the sender after ten days. Mr H 
says this could only happen during his annual  vacation which is less than four weeks a year. 
Given the number of statements that were  returned to HSBC  I would have expected  Mr H and Mrs M 
to query why they werent receiving regular statements for their accounts. If theyd done this, I think  
they would have been able to take steps to ensure  they did receive all the correspondence  HSBC was 
sending to them and its more  likely they would have received the correspondence  relating to the 
closure of the accounts.
In addition to the above, Mr H and Mrs M provided  two addresses in connection  with the account to 
which the funds were  eventually transferred. The home address they provided is a street  address, not 
a PO Box number. They  provided a PO Box number  as their business address but it isnt the same as 
either PO Box A or PO Box B. Mr H and Mrs M didnt give either  of these  addresses to HSBC before 
their accounts  were  closed.
The terms  and conditions of the accounts say HSBC can close  them  on two months notice. HSBC  
has provided  a template  of the letter  it says would  have been  sent to Mr H and Mrs M telling them  it 
was going to close their accounts. But I havent seen copies of the letters  that were actually  sent or 
any evidence showing they were  sent. HSBCs notes say the closure letters  were  sent on 19 
December 2017 with a closure date of 25 January 2018. That is less than two months notice.  Ive 
asked HSBC  to explain  this discrepancy and it says it cant do this. On the evidence  currently 
available to me, Im not satisfied HSBC gave Mr H and Mrs M the notice required by the account  
terms and conditions.
Ive seen copies of letters  HSBC says it sent to Mr H and Mrs M enclosing the cheques  for the sterling 
amounts following the conversion  of the account  balances  from US Dollars. These letters  werent sent 
until May and August 2018 when the accounts were closed in January  2018.  Ive asked HSBC to 
explain the delay in sending the cheques and it says it cant provide a reason for this. I think  the fact 
the cheques werent presented for payment should  have  alerted HSBC to the fact they hadnt been 
received by Mr H and Mrs M. HSBC  could then have taken additional steps to contact  them.
Looking at this complaint as a whole, I think there were errors on both sides.  Im not persuaded  I 
could reasonably decide, on the evidence  currently available to me, that either  party  was wholly to 
blame for the loss suffered  by Mr H and Mrs M. I think the fairest  outcome would  be for the loss to be 
shared equally. Im therefore  minded to require HSBC to pay Mr H and Mrs M a sum in US dollars 
equal to half of the loss they incurred as a result of the conversion of the funds  held in their accounts  
from US dollars  to sterling and then back to US dollars.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties  my provisional decision is I 
uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr H and Mrs M an amount in US dollars  
equal to half of the difference between the balances  of their accounts immediately before they were 
closed and the amount  they received when they converted the sterling back to US dollars  in January 
2019. 
Ref: DRN0827184