K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a charge 
card. Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill 
refer to Allianz as the seller to keep  things simple. Ms T says Allianz mis-sold her the PPI 
policy on her charge card. 
Ms T bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out the card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Ts credit agreement. In it, there was a separate  section relating to 
PPI. It included a brief description  of the PPI and it set out some basic cost details. I can see 
the box requesting  cover  has been ticked and Ms Ts name and date of birth have been 
placed in the PPI section  to confirm the cover was for her. Shes  then signed this form. 
And looking at the way the form was set out, I think Ms T would  have understood what she 
was applying for, and wouldve known that she could say no to the cover if she didnt want  it. 
I also note that the premiums for the PPI appeared on Ms Ts account statements, so if it 
wasnt something that she had agreed to take then I think  she would have questioned it 
when the premiums were  taken from her account. 
So with all Ive seen,  I think Allianz  made  it clear Ms T had a choice about  taking  the PPI, 
and she chose to take it, knowing  she didnt have  to.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Allianz recommended the PPI to Ms T so it didnt 
have to check it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough clear information  so she 
could decide if she wanted to take it. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Ms T about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But Ms T was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear  to have been affected by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Based on what I know about Ms Ts circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful to her. Ms T has said shes not sure what sick pay she might have been entitled to at 
the time,  and that she didnt have any other means  available to help her meet  her 
repayments should she find herself  out of work unexpectedly. This policy  couldve paid out 
15% of her monthly balance on top of any sick pay until her balance was repaid if she was 
off work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.  So I think  she couldve found the policy 
to be useful. 
Ref: DRN00278202With this in mind, I dont think better information  wouldve  stopped her buying  it. And I dont 
think that Ms T has lost out as a result of anything Allianz mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0027820