K820x#14complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the way HSBC  UK Bank Plc handled  her mortgage application.
background
In March 2018 Miss K applied for a mortgage with HSBC. She wanted to borrow a total sum 
of £155,000 over 25 years  on a repayment basis. She was quoted an interest  rate of 1.74% 
fixed for five years. In order to secure  this offer Miss K paid a £999 booking fee. This 
involved her paying  £99 up front and adding £900 to the mortgage  amount itself.
Approximately a month later, Miss K wanted to increase the mortgage  amount to £159,000. 
So she reapplied for the mortgage. This time she was quoted an interest rate of 1.89% fixed 
for five years.
Miss K raised a complaint  with HSBC because she felt she had booked the lower interest 
rate of 1.74% when she paid her £99 booking fee. She also complained  that HSBC  staff had 
told her the lower rate would apply when  she applied for the increased amount.
HSBC looked  into matters and responded to Miss Ks concerns. HSBC explained that as 
Miss K had increased the level of borrowing  the lower rate no longer applied, and that in the 
interim period its rates had changed.  HSBC confirmed that Miss K could continue  to take out 
her original offer or she could take the new rate for the increased loan amount. It also 
apologised for incorrect  information it had given  Miss K during a phone  call when she initially  
raised her concerns. HSBC offered Miss K £150 for any inconvenience  caused. 
Miss K went on to take out the original mortgage  offer of £155,900 over 25 years with a fixed 
interest rate of 1.74%  for five years.
Our investigator looked into maters, but didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt 
the information which HSBC had provided was clear to explain the situation. She also 
agreed that as Miss K had increased  the loan amount that it was fair for HSBC to consider 
this as a new application  and it had therefore  applied the correct rate at the time. Miss K 
remained unhappy and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  So the case 
has been passed to me to issue a final decision on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ks point of view, and the frustration that she felt because she thought  she 
had secured the lower interest rate. 
Miss K says the information  she was given  wasnt clear, and as a result she has lost out 
financially. However, having considered everything I dont agree.
Ultimately, Miss K has paid a non-refundable booking fee for a product  that she eventually 
went on to take out. In that sense there hasnt been  any financial loss incurred in this 
situation. 
Ref: DRN09388112However, I have looked at the terms of Miss Ks mortgage offers  and illustrations. And Im 
satisfied they are clear  in explaining what Miss K was applying  for, and how the booking  fee 
worked. Miss K says she was lead to believe  she had secured the interest rate. However  the 
wording of the booking fee says that paying  the fee only secures the mortgage deal. Im 
satisfied this is sufficient  in explaining that Miss K was paying  to reserve  the deal she had 
been offered  i.e. the loan amount  of £155,00 over 25 years at the 1.74% rate  not the 
interest rate alone.
Further, HSBC has shown  our service the change in rates  which applied at the various 
points Miss K applied  for her mortgages. These  show that when she applied  for the 
increased amount  the rates had increased  to 1.89%. As such  I dont think  it is unfair for 
HSBC to quote this to her.
In the end Miss K had the option to take this amount out, or continue  with the deal she had 
secured previously. And she chose to proceed on the basis  of the original offer.  This was her 
choice to make and Im satisfied she hasnt lost out financially as a result.
In terms of the customer service, HSBC  has apologised  and offered £150 to Miss K for any 
confusion caused. Considering the time frames involved, and the fact Miss K was able to 
proceed on her original  terms, Im satisfied the amount offered is sufficient to recognise any 
distress which  has been  caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0938811