K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Pepperstone Limited  has deliberately manipulated its platform  
preventing him from trading causing him financial loss. 
background
Pepperstone has rejected  the complaint. It says theres no evidence  to suggest that it was 
responsible for freezing the platform or any pricing  issues hes experienced. Instead it says 
the evidence Mr L provided  a video recording of what he was experiencing and cTrades  
tick data  suggests that it wasnt responsible  for the difficulties he was experiencing. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
short, he said:
Hes seen no evidence that Pepperstone  had deliberately manipulated the situation 
preventing Mr L from trading at a specific time. 
There may have been issues but none  that can be attributed to Pepperstone. 
Just because he didnt  experience  these  issues with another platform  doesnt mean  
that Pepperstone was deliberately freezing its platform to prevent him from trading. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest Pepperstone was responsible for the problems he 
experienced. 
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  In 
summary, he said:
He has 20 years  experience as a profession  in the stock  market. Can any broker 
explain why these  issues didnt  happen  for 23 hours and 59 minutes but exactly 
when important financial information comes out?
Can Pepperstone  prove that all its customers  are connected to the same server  and 
have the same prices?
Other customers have also said that the only problems experienced have been 
through Pepperstones  connections.  
If Pepperstone  was decent, it would have spoken with its Spotware company  (sic) 
and investigated  why this happened  to its clients. 
It was either Pepperstones fault or the platform providers fault. Either  way there was 
an issue that wasnt at Mr Ls end. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the available evidence, and on balance,  
despite what Mr L says Im unable to safely say that Pepperstone  has deliberately 
manipulated its platform to ensure that Mr L suffered financial loss.  
Ref: DRN00586832But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling  about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and the Pepperstone, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  (than not) to have happened.  
I appreciate Mr Ls frustration but its possible  that it was just a coincidence. I havent seen 
any evidence that persuades me that it wasnt. Just because Mr L didnt experience similar 
issues with other platforms,  isnt evidence that Pepperstone was deliberately manipulating its 
platform to cause him loss. 
Im mindful that Pepperstone has confirmed, based on its cTrades  tick data that it has 
provided Mr L, it has no other recorded incidences of  customers experiencing similar issues  
at the same  time. Pepperstone  suggests that it may be a problem with Mr Ls computer 
because if its computer  was to crash it wouldnt be able to transmit  from its server to Mr Ls 
computer terminal. On balance Im persuaded by this explanation which  suggests  on a 
balance of probabilities, the problem is unlikely to be a problem at Pepperstones  end. 
Its clear that Mr L experienced issues that prevented him from trading. Its possible it was a 
coincidence or issues with his computer  terminal/connection. What  I cant  safely conclude is 
that Pepperstone has deliberately manipulated the situation to cause him a financial loss.   
I appreciate Mr L feels like hes wasted  his time referring the complaint to our service  and 
that he will be disappointed Ive reached  the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  Pepperstone to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr L 
what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0058683