K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland  trading at the time of 
sale as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B arranged  a mortgage  to be provided  by Bank of Scotland  in 2002. Whilst this 
was being arranged, they also bought a MPPI policy to protect their mortgage  repayments. 
The policy covered Mr B only against accidents, sickness  and unemployment and also 
provided other insurance such  as critical illness cover. 
Mr and Mrs B believe Bank of Scotland mis-sold the policy. They say they always  refuse PPI 
and have never knowingly taken it out. They say they believe the policy  has been provided 
without their consent.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs B dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
I have first of all looked at whether Bank of Scotland  gave Mr and Mrs B a choice to have 
the MPPI  policy. Having  looked  at all that has been  submitted, I cant  be sure how the 
policy was presented to Mr and Mrs B when they were sold MPPI. 
Bank of Scotland has said the sale took place during a telephone call after the mortgage  
was arranged with an intermediary. Mr and Mrs B disagree with this and say the policy 
was added by Bank  of Scotland without their consent (and not during a phone call).
I do have regard  for what Mr and Mrs B have  said,  but understandably their recollections 
are not detailed due to the many years  that have  passed.  I have needed to also look into 
what has been provided from the time of sale and consider what I know  of sales 
conducted by Bank  of Scotland.  And having  done this, I consider it is more  likely           
Mr and Mrs B were  advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect their 
mortgage repayments during a telephone call, and they took the policy  on that advice. 
I say this because  I have seen a form provided  by Bank of Scotland  that shows  the 
mortgage was sold by an intermediary. And from what I know of how Bank  of Scotland 
carried out sales of MPPI  policies during  that time, its more  likely than not that the sale 
of the MPPI policy then took place during a separate  telephone call and that                 
Mr and Mrs B were  given a choice to have it. I havent seen enough to support what      
Mr and Mrs B have  said to be able to conclude that the MPPI policy  was sold without 
their consent on this occasion.  
Ref: DRN07310862Moving on, I think Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B (rather 
than it add the policy without their consent),  but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for 
Mr B (as the sole policy holder)  based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the 
time. He says he had 12 months  sick pay and £9000  savings at the time of sale but on 
balance I still think the policy  would have been useful in a time of need,  if he became 
sick or was made unemployed. He would have been able to claim alongside his 
provisions at that time. Our service  recently  asked Mr and Mrs B to clarify what sick pay 
and savings they had at the time of sale. And with the response  they gave, I havent 
seen enough that would  suggest  to me that they wouldnt  have found at least  some value 
in obtaining the cover provided by the policy.
Mr B says he had a medical  condition at the time of sale.  Our service  asked for further 
information about this as he may not have been able to claim benefit if needed for this 
condition and this may have made  the policy unsuitable  for him. But Mr B has told our 
service that he hadnt been absent  from work because of his condition before the date of 
sale. And so I dont think having his medical  condition and any terms that may have been 
given in the policy around this, would have made the policy unsuitable for him. At least  
not enough that I think it would  have put him off from having it. I also couldnt find 
anything else within the policy terms that would have made it unsuitable for Mr B.
Bank of Scotland has provided  some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  
that Mr and Mrs B took out. That said I dont know if the costs were disclosed clearly  
during the phone  call. But even if it did disclose the costs  in a clear  way, I dont think it 
would have made any difference to the choice Mr and Mrs B made  for the reasons I have 
already given. The policy was reasonably priced compared to similar policies available  at 
the time and to the monthly  mortgage repayment. And Mr and Mrs B could have 
cancelled the MPPI  if it did become unaffordable.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, and it has been a difficult  
decision to make due to the lack of sales documentation, but in conclusion  I do not uphold  
their complaint for the reasons that I have given above.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject  my decision before 
28 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0731086