K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy that The Equine  and Livestock Insurance  Company Limited  (E&L)  turned 
down her claim on her pet insurance policy. 
background
On 11 May 2017, Miss S took her dog to the vet to check  his breathing as he snored  loudly.  
She said the vet told her it was normal for the breed, and he suggested procedures  that 
might help. The vets notes from the time say: 
Reason Checkup 
O reporting breathing  problems  get worse, 
Signs of respiratory  distress after a longer walk, decreased exercise tolerance,  heavy 
snoring 
Adv to book in in 2 weeks 
Soft palate surgery with JS (?)
On 16 May 2017, Miss S bought lifetime pet insurance for her dog. Her policy  schedule  
shows she was asked  [i]n the last 12 months, has your pet been  seen by a vet (excluding 
vaccinations)? If so, what for and when? The answer recorded was [y]es dog bite on ear.
Miss S took her dog back to the vet in October 2017. The vets notes say: 
Reason To See JS Ref Soft Palate  
OR episodes of severe resp distress  BOAS surgery requires may be all of nostrils,  soft 
palate and laryngeal saccules 
When the BOAS surgery went ahead  later that month, the vets found a tumour in the dogs 
throat. So he was transferred to a different vet for emergency treatment. 
Miss S didnt claim  on her insurance policy for the costs of the BOAS  surgery  but she did 
submit a claim for the cost of treating the tumour. In April 2018,  E&L turned down the claim. 
It said the policy didnt  cover costs of an illness  where  the dog first showed clinical signs  
before the policy started  and the vet had confirmed that was the case here.  It also said that 
Miss S didnt disclose  that the dog had been  to the vet about his breathing problems when 
she was asked. If it had known, it wouldve excluded the respiratory  system  from the dogs 
cover. 
Miss S was unhappy  with the insurers decision. She said that having spoken  to the vet, her 
dog wasnt showing signs of having  a tumour.  And that she didnt mention going to the vet in 
May 2017, as she had been told that everything was normal  for this dog breed. Miss S also 
said she was told the claim  had been accepted, only to hear five months later that it had 
been turned  down. She explained  that if she had known this sooner, she wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the treatment, as she now cant afford to pay the vet bill. 
Our investigator thought E&L acted  fairly  in turning  down Miss Ss claim. She disagreed, so 
the case has been passed  to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05481292Ive reviewed Miss Ss policy wording  to see what shes covered for. Under  Section 1  
Vets Fees  it excludes [c]osts arising from any Injury, Illness or Condition which   first 
showed Clinical Signs, happened  or existed before the commencement date/time shown on 
Your policy schedule. This exclusion has been highlighted in the policy  synopsis too  so 
Im satisfied E&L were  plain and clear with Miss S about what  they wouldnt cover.  
E&L relied on the vets confirmation  that her dog first showed clinical  signs of the tumour  on 
11 May 2017, before the policy was taken out. Miss S disagrees  with this approach, because 
neither she nor the vet suspected her dog had a tumour   instead, they believed the BOAS 
surgery would solve the problems. 
Looking at the policy wording, all that matters is that her dog had clinical  signs of the tumour. 
There wasnt a need for anyone  to know, or even  suspect, the eventual claimed condition, as 
long as the clinical signs were present. And Im persuaded by the vets professional opinion 
that was the case  here. So Im satisfied that E&L could rely on this exclusion.
Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair for it to do so, taking into account what  Miss S 
knew about the health of her dog. I accept  she didnt know the extent of the problem. But I 
think she realised there  was something wrong which would likely need  further  investigation 
or treatment. She took her dog to the vet where they discussed possible treatments  and, 
having reviewed  the notes  left at the time,  she was advised to come back  in two weeks.  I 
appreciate she was told it was normal for the breed. But even if the problems were typical,  it 
didnt mean  her dog was problem-free. 
E&L is entitled to decide  what risks its willing to cover,  and its not unusual that an insurer 
wont cover  something thats already present. Here, I dont think it acted unfairly  in declining  
this claim  even if the eventual diagnosis wasnt expected, it was to do with problems that 
were known about before the policy started.  
Going further, even without this exclusion, I still wouldnt be satisfied  that the claim should be 
paid. When Miss S took out the policy, she was asked whether the pet had been  seen  by a 
vet, and if so, when and what for. Miss S says she didnt mention the visit on 11 May 2017, 
because she was told that everything was normal. But the question clearly  asked if shed  
been to the vet, regardless of the outcome. And given  that the visit happened less than a 
week before  the policy started,  I think she ought to have mentioned it. If that had happened,  
E&L has shown  it wouldve  excluded the respiratory system from cover   meaning Miss Ss 
claim for a tumour in the throat wouldnt have been covered. 
Miss S also complained  that E&L accepted the claim only to turn it down five months  later. 
And that she wouldnt have continued  with the dogs  treatment had she known it wasnt 
covered. Having reviewed  E&Ls records, Ive not seen anything to suggest it ever accepted 
the claim.  And indeed, it didnt receive  the claim form until late November 2017   some time 
after the dogs  treatment. 
It did take a long time  until April 2018  for E&L to confirm that it wouldnt be covered. But 
having reviewed  the records,  it was waiting  for Miss S to provide the vets medical history,  
which it asked for regularly and received in March  2018. I recognise  Miss S said she 
provided this from the outset  but Ive only seen that E&L received the emergency  vets 
medical history before  March 2018. Given that the entire history  was critical to E&Ls 
decision about whether to provide  cover, I dont think it caused any unreasonable delays 
here. 
Ref: DRN05481293I know my decision will be particularly disappointing for Miss S, as I recognise  that shes  now 
struggling a lot financially, given the cost of the treatment. But having considered  everything  
carefully, I dont think that E&L acted unfairly here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0548129