K820xSainsburys14complaint
Mr H complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc renewed his motor insurance policy and took 
payment for it without  his agreement.
background
After Mr H had his car stolen, he said that hed reported this to Sainsburys. So he was 
surprised when they automatically renewed his policy and took the premium  by credit card. 
Sainsburys refunded  this but he said this took too long.  They  also paid him £30 as gesture 
of goodwill  but he didnt feel this reflected the distress and inconvenience  hed experienced. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that his complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought that 
Sainsburys hadnt acted  unreasonably. Mr H didnt agree and so his case has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H said that hed reported his cars theft to Sainsburys  on the day it happened. But a few 
days later,  on 2 September, Mr H told him theyd renewed the policy  and taken credit card 
payment of the premium. Mr H felt that Sainsburys  should have  known he didnt want  to 
renew his policy, as his car had been  stolen. He felt theyd taken the credit card payment  
without authorisation.  
When Mr H told them about this, they cancelled his policy and refunded  the credit card 
payment. But he said that it took him numerous  calls to Sainsburys to resolve that. He said 
that often he couldnt  get through to Sainsburys or, when he did, Sainsburys didnt return 
his calls. He said that it was weeks  before he knew for sure  that theyd  refunded the 
premium as the credit card company said they hadnt received it, and hed had weeks  of 
uncertainty by then.  
Sainsburys didnt think theyd done  anything wrong,  apart  from their member of staff saying 
shed contact his insurer when that wasnt her role, and then not calling Mr H back.  They 
offered him £30 for that as a goodwill gesture. But he said that it didnt reflect the stress,  
upset and inconvenience Sainsburys error  had caused. He felt that theyd made an already 
stressful situation - his cars theft - worse. He wanted them  to compensate  him £269.08, the 
same amount as the premium. And he felt that it was insulting for Sainsburys to suggest that 
he was at fault for not stopping the auto renewal. He wanted  them  to apologise  for that. 
Sainsburys showed that Mr Hs policy allowed  them to auto renew. Thats  a common feature 
in the insurance  industry; and I dont think its unreasonable. Sainsburys also showed  us 
copy screenshots showing that hed authorised them to contact him about his policy  via their 
portal. I can see that they told him that theyd automatically renew  his policy  on a certain 
date unless he contacted them before then, and that theyd take the premium  5 working days 
before renewal. So I think they had told him about the auto renewal in the way that hed 
authorised them to. They also emailed him on 2 September to say theyd renewed and had 
taken the payment. So I think  that Sainsburys were fairly acting in line with his policy  when 
they auto renewed.  But he said they should  have cancelled the renewal on the assumption 
that he wouldnt want to reinsure as his car had been stolen.
Ref: DRN07247262He said hed reported his cars theft on 28 August, but Sainsburys said they had no record  
of that until 3 September, when he got in touch about the payment being taken. So they said 
they didnt know  about the theft till then and he hadnt contacted them to cancel the auto 
renewal. He said he phoned  the advertised phone number  for Sainsburys to report the car 
theft, and they should have cancelled the renewal too. He felt that Sainsburys 
communication should have been more  joined  up.
Sainsburys said they used an agent company to receive and allocate calls.  I dont have  any 
other evidence that Mr H called Sainsburys about  the theft on 28 August, but Ive no reason 
to disbelieve  what he says. But even if he did call the agent then, and the agent  didnt  pass  
on the report of the theft to Sainsburys, his broker, I dont think  that was unreasonable.  I 
think that the agents would reasonably  have treated his call as a claim to allocate  to the 
insurer and not as a cancellation  of future insurance to allocate  to Sainsburys as the broker.
 So I dont think that it is necessarily Sainsburys fault if that didnt happen. This is because it 
doesnt always follow that no one wants to insure a stolen car, as stolen cars can be and are 
often recovered.  So its theft doesnt  automatically mean that someone  wont renew. And I 
also have to take into account  the very short  time frame between  the theft and the auto 
renewal. So overall  I dont  think  that Sainsburys were unfair to renew the policy.  
When Mr H told them what  had happened, Sainsburys cancelled  the policy and refunded  
the premium within only a few days.  But Mr H said he and his wife were  caused uncertainty.  
This was because Sainsburys didnt prove that theyd paid the refund and the credit card 
company were claiming they hadnt received it. Mr H said it was about 2 weeks  later before 
the credit  card company confirmed that they had received it on 4 September. 
But I dont think that Sainsburys  can be held responsible for that. Sainsburys had been 
adamant to Mr H that they had paid it, and that was correct; in fact theyd refunded  the 
premium very promptly. 
I understand that Mr H found the situation  frustrating, but I dont think  that Sainsburys have 
been unreasonable. In the circumstances I dont think that they were wrong to auto renew 
his policy  and when  they became aware that he didnt want to renew, they cancelled his 
policy and refunded the premium within a reasonable timescale. So I dont think that 
Sainsburys have done anything wrong  and I dont require them to do anything  else. 
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0724726