K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs S have  complained that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) failed to 
update their address details when they moved  house with the result that they received  no 
correspondence about their unemployment  insurance policy  for a number of years.  
background
In 1999, Mr W and Mrs S took out an unemployment  insurance  policy  with L&G while in the 
process of obtaining  a mortgage. The policy, which was sold by an independent financial 
adviser (IFA), would pay benefit towards their mortgage  costs for up to twelve months in the 
event that either Mr W or Mrs S were to be made  involuntarily unemployed.
In 2000, Mr W and Mrs S moved  house.  They informed L&G but it failed to correctly  update  
their details on its database. Consequently,  all subsequent correspondence concerning the 
policy was sent to an incorrect address.
In 2018, Mr W and Mrs S became aware  that the policy  was still in operation. They  
contacted L&G and discovered  the error it had made  concerning  their address details. They  
cancelled the policy and complained to L&G that they would  have done  so far sooner if they 
had been aware  the policy was still live. They asked for a complete refund of premiums.
L&G apologised for its error. It explained,  however, that the policy was portable rather  than 
tied to a particular  address.  This meant that, provided Mr W and Mrs S had a mortgage  on 
their current  property, the policy was still relevant. It offered  £100  compensation.   
Mr W and Mrs S were  unhappy at L&Gs response. They referred their complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  He noted  that Mr W 
and Mrs S had been aware of the policy at the time it was taken out and were  presumably 
happy with it at that time. While it was unfortunate that L&G failed to send correspondence to 
the correct address, which  may have contributed to Mr W and Mrs S forgetting  about the 
policys existence, he thought there was insufficient  evidence to show that they would have 
chosen to cancel the policy much  sooner. He noted that L&G had said it would be prepared 
to consider a proportionate refund of premiums if Mr W and/or Mrs S could show  they had 
taken out another policy which had provided duplicate  cover.  He considered  this, along with 
its offer of £100  compensation, was fair.  
Mr W and Mrs S didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. They said that, since  taking out the 
policy, the mis-sale of payment protection insurance  (PPI) had been  widely  reported. If they 
had known they had such a policy, they would have taken steps to cancel it much  sooner, 
particularly as they felt it wasnt really  needed. They had been  denied this opportunity 
through L&Gs error. They pointed out that they had paid out approximately  £4,000 in 
premiums over the years and they considered the offer of £100 compensation was 
inadequate.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN04195042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Mr W and Mrs S say the policy was not needed  by them  and they believe it was mis-sold.  
Unfortunately, they have  been unable under the rules by which we operate  to bring a 
complaint against  the IFA who sold the policy. However, I should point out that, although  it is 
designed to help the policyholder meet their mortgage payments, this is an unemployment 
insurance policy rather than a traditional PPI policy regardless  of how it might have been 
marketed by L&G. Mr W and Mrs S were aware the policy was in operation  and were  clearly 
happy to pay the premium  up until the point that they moved house. I have no reasonable 
grounds for assuming that the policy was unsuitable  for them  or that they would necessarily 
have been successful if they had been able to make a mis-sale complaint against the IFA.
L&G has admitted  responsibility for failing to update Mr W and Mrs Ss address. It has 
offered £100 compensation  for this. I recognise that Mr W and Mrs S think  this is inadequate. 
However, bearing in mind  what I say in the paragraph above,  I think  it is fair. While  Mr W and 
Mrs S chose to cancel the policy in 2018 on realising it was still in existence, I cant 
reasonably conclude they would have decided to do so much  sooner if L&G had sent 
correspondence each  year to the correct address. I also think  that Mr W and Mrs S must 
bear some responsibility for failing to realise  the policy was still in operation given that it 
operated on a monthly rolling contract, they hadnt cancelled it and it showed as a direct 
debit on Mr Ws bank statements each month.
I note that L&G has offered  to consider a proportionate refund if Mr W and/or Mrs S can 
show they took out duplicate cover during the time the policy was in existence.  I think this is 
fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0419504