K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) disclosed her address to her former  
partner (P) without her consent. 
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Miss O and Halifax so I wont repeat it in any great detail.  Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Miss O obtained a Restraining Order against P due to his violent, controlling and coercive  
behaviour. She also moved home with her son and kept her new address hidden from P for 
reasons of safety. When, in January 2019,  she made address changes to her current 
account those  changes appeared on a joint account she still held with P leading  to him 
finding out where she lived. This was despite  being assured by Halifax  that a marker would 
be added  to her name and accounts  to prevent this from happening.  Knowing that P knew  
where she lived, Miss O and her son were  caused significant distress and anxiety.
Halifax accept they made  an error and have apologised  to Miss O paying  her £1,000 in 
compensation, and also offering to consider any removal costs she might incur if she had to 
move home again. Miss O was unhappy  with Halifaxs response and so the investigator  
looked into the complaint further  and although he agreed Halifax had acted unfairly he 
thought the level of compensation paid to Miss O was fair and reasonable. As Miss O didnt 
agree, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate. Im 
not the industry regulator, and I dont  have power to make rules  for financial businesses, 
direct that they change  their processes, or punish them. That is for the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
I will consider  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Miss O. I aim to 
address all relevant  points  with a view to reaching  a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides  views.  As a preliminary point, I know  
Miss O feels  this is a data breach, but its important to emphasise that its not the role of this 
service to decide whether or not theres  been a data breach - only the Information  
Commissioners Office (ICO) can do that. So, if Miss O wishes to complain to the ICO, there  
is more information  on how to do this on its website.
This is clearly a very unfortunate situation  and I have no doubt Miss O and her son have 
gone through a very difficult stressful and worrying  time. And no doubt that continues. 
Miss O has explained very clearly  how Halifaxs error affected her and her son when she 
wrote in response to the investigators  view in September  2019 and then again  in 
February 2020. It is good to hear that Miss O has not been subjected  to any further  
harassment or assaults  by P and it would  appear that P has observed  the terms of the 
Restraining Order by keeping away from her. I say that based upon the fact that Miss O has 
not reported there to have been any breaches of the Order. I also note that Miss O has 
Ref: DRN03714522decided not to move home again, and I can well understand  her reasons for not wishing to 
do so, since she naturally wishes to provide a stable  home environment for herself  and her 
son. Nevertheless, it remains the fact that she must continue to live in a property in the 
knowledge that P knows where she is. Again that must be difficult  for her and her son and I 
recognise that to be so.
Halifax has accepted  their failings and that Miss O should be compensated. Indeed they 
have already paid her £1,000. So, the sole remaining issue is what  the correct  level of 
compensation ought to be. Miss O has argued that had she moved home  Halifax would have 
paid her more compensation and I think that is probably correct. As such  she feels they 
could pay her more even though she is not now moving. But the compensation they would 
have paid her would have been re-imbursement of any moving costs she would have had, 
and so any additional sum would  not have benefited her directly  since  it would have simply 
been re-imbursement  of costs incurred.
And I have  taken into account the case example Miss O has referred to on this services 
website, but as Miss O has identified,  the circumstances in that case are very different  to 
hers, and so the level of award has little relevance  here. But this service does not calculate 
awards of compensation as would a court, and as I have said above our role is to arrive at a 
fair and reasonable decision based  on all the circumstances of the case.
The £1,000 payment of compensation made  to Miss O is fair and reasonable in my view. It is 
not an insignificant  sum.  Miss O has not specified what  sum of money she feels  would be 
reasonable, except  for making reference to the example given on the website. That perhaps 
is an acknowledgement of how difficult it is to quantify levels of compensation in 
circumstances like these where  awards  are made  for sums which  cant be calculated  in the 
same way as say costs  associated with moving  home could be. So inevitably there is an 
element of judgement involved here,  and in my view £1,000 is very much in line with the 
awards this service would  make  for distress  and inconvenience here, and I think it is enough 
to put matters right.
Although Miss O will probably be disappointed  with my decision,  I cant  say Halifax has 
acted unfairly and so Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0371452