K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about losses of $21,800 he has suffered on a CFD trading account in his 
name with GKFX Financial Services Limited  (GKFX).
background
Mr W complains that the trading account in his name wasnt opened by him but opened by a 
third party (who he believes is/was  employed  by, or an agent  of, GKFX). And that this third 
party traded through this trading account not him. He also says that since  losing him $21,800 
the third party  has disappeared.
On 28 August 2017 GKFX  opened a trading account in the name of Mr W.
Between 29 August and 11 October 2017  nine deposits totalling $22,800 were made to the 
trading account  from Mr Ws bank account.
On 11 October 2017 one withdrawal totalling $1,000 was made from the trading account.
Between 29 August and 13 October 2017  approximately 500 CFD positions (mainly in 
forex-pairs) were  opened  and closed. Most of these positions were held open  for only a few 
minutes or hours.
Since 13 October 2017 there has been  no further positions opened (or closed) through the 
trading account.  
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld. In summary he said:
GKFX  would have had no reason to doubt that it was Mr W who had asked for the 
trading account  to be opened, especially given the details  it was provided with 
(including identification documents for Mr W and his bank account details).
Based  on information GKFX says it was provided, information Mr W doesnt  dispute 
was provided, a CFD execution only trading  account didnt appear to be 
inappropriate for Mr W.
He was satisfied  that the third party referred  to by Mr W was neither an employee nor 
an agent of GKFX.
If Mr W had allowed  a third party to open a trading  account  in his name and trade 
then that was a breach of the trading account terms and conditions.
If Mr W had allowed  a third party to open a trading  account  in his name and trade 
through it, then he was responsible  for that not GKFX.
Notwithstanding a third party might have opened  a trading account in Mr Ws name  
and traded, it was Mr W who funded these trades  having  made  nine deposits of 
$22,800 over a six week period.
Mr W has provided no documentary evidence of any pricing errors or poor pricing 
execution by GKFX. 
Ref: DRN05472002GKFX  did nothing wrong is closing  Mr Ws trading account, if indeed  that is what it 
did.
Mr W didnt agree and so his complaint has been  passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what,  in my opinion, is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of a 
complaint, Im required by DISP  3.6.4 of the FCA Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  [I] consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
I would also add that where  the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened given  the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its clear Mr W has very strong feelings about  this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of his view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr W will not take the fact that my findings  focus  on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, 
as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
Having considered what Mr W has said and provided, Im satisfied that its quite possible that 
the trading account in his name was opened  by a third party.  
However, Im satisfied that this third party isnt in anyway connected with GKFX. If it was, I 
might have expected  Mr W to have provided  more than he has, for example a business card, 
a letter  of appointment or terms of business, but he hasnt. 
Im also satisfied that if the trading  account in Mr Ws name  was opened by a third party  then 
this was done with Mr Ws full knowledge, cooperation and consent. In other words Mr W 
was fully prepared  to be bound by anything  that third party said, did, or agreed to in opening 
this trading account. 
I say this in part because of the substantial amount of personal information  that was required 
to be submitted to GKFX for this trading account  to be opened, what  documentation needed 
to be provided (including identification documents)  and the checks and systems  that were  in 
place.
Ref: DRN05472003Ive also seen nothing  that was submitted as part of the trading account  opening process  
that would  have caused GKFX to question  whether  it was Mr W applying  to open a trading 
account or a third party or that such a trading account would be inappropriate.
Furthermore I find it difficult  to reconcile this aspect  of Mr Ws complaint with other aspects 
of it. For example he says he didnt  open the trading  account himself but complains there 
were pricing  errors or poor pricing execution by GKFX. 
So in summary Im not persuaded  GKFX  did anything wrong  in opening the trading account  
that it did in the name of Mr W.
Its my understanding that Mr W says all the trades placed through the trading account in his 
name were placed by the third party  that opened it. Again I dont dispute this is a possibility. 
But Im not persuaded these trades would have been placed without Mr Ws full knowledge, 
cooperation and consent. Indeed  Mr W accepts that it was he who funded the trading 
account (from his bank  account) for these trades to be placed and that he did so on not just 
one occasion  but on nine occasions over six weeks.
But even if I wasnt of the above  view I cant see how GKFX could have been expected to 
have known it was somebody other than Mr W trading.
So in summary Im not persuaded  GKFX  did anything wrong  in allowing the positions to be 
opened and closed that it did, or in holding Mr W liable for the resultant losses.
If Mr Ws trading  account has been  closed  by GKFX  as he submits then Im satisfied that this 
was something it was entitled to do. But in any event, I cant  see that closing Mr Ws trading 
account has in itself caused him a loss. What caused Mr W his loss were  the positions  that 
were opened  and closed, not the trading account  being closed, and if Mr W wants to trade 
CFDs in the future  he is free to do so by opening a new trading account.
Finally I would add that Ive seen nothing that would persuade me that there  was any pricing 
errors or poor pricing execution by GKFX. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision,  however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr W doesnt  have to 
accept my decision and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
GKFX Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0547200