K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Ms H had one loan with Uncle Buck in August 2018.  The loan was for £600, repayable in six 
monthly instalments:  five instalments  of £185.03  and one final payment of £169.87  making 
the total amount repayable £1,095.02.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  Ms H didnt 
agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive seen that before lending to Ms H, Uncle Buck asked  her to provide some  information 
about her income  and expenditure. Ms H declared a monthly  income of £1,700 and total 
monthly expenditure of £1,300.
In the circumstances of Ms Hs loan, I think Uncle Bucks affordability  checks  were 
proportionate. The five larger repayments were  around 11% of Ms Hs monthly income, 
which I dont think seems  automatically significant,  and they were  well within  what Ms H 
appeared to be able to afford, bearing  in mind her declared monthly  expenditure. I dont think 
it would  be proportionate to suggest Uncle Buck  shouldve carried out any more  detailed 
affordability checks than it actually did.
I accept its likely Ms Hs debts (and/or monthly  credit repayments) may have been larger 
than she declared. But Ive not seen  that Uncle Buck was fully aware  of this  at least not to 
the extent that it ought to have realised  the loan it agreed was unaffordable for Ms H. And 
I dont think Uncle Buck acted unreasonably  by relying on the information Ms H provided.
Im sorry  that Ms H now finds  herself in financial difficulty. I understand she is working  with a 
debt charity and I remind Uncle Buck that it must treat her positively and sympathetically.
Ref: DRN07311302my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0731130