K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr P says he couldnt afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out.
background
QuickQuid agreed eight short-term loans for Mr P between  February  2011  and 
December 2017.  The loans were repayable over between one and three months.  Ive set out 
a summary of lending  below. 
loan no. applicationprincipal  amount 
(£)no. of repayments  
duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 25/02/2011 100 1 125
2 14/02/2016 150 1 190
3 07/02/2017 650 3 801
4 05/05/2017 1,000 3 1,224
5 07/08/2017 800 3 998
6 08/09/2017 1,000 3 1,248
7 02/11/2017 1,500 3 1,896
8 03/12/2017 1,500 3 1,836
QuickQuid objected to our service looking at loan 1, due to how long ago the agreement  was 
set up. Mr P has accepted this, and agreed  that hes happy for us to consider just the loans 
agreed from February 2016 onwards.  While I wont be looking into the affordability of loan 1, 
it did however form part of the overall pattern of lending, so I may refer to it in my decision.  
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ps complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on loan 2 were 
proportionate. But thought  the checks carried out from loan 3 onwards werent. And he 
thought that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks,  it wouldve seen that 
loans 4 - 8 wouldve been unaffordable for Mr P, and wouldnt have agreed to them.
Mr P raised no objections to the initial view. QuickQuid responded further, disagreeing with 
the assessment.  So the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
As loans  2  3 are no longer in dispute,  my decision will focus on the remaining loans, 
loans 4  8.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Mr Ps applications  from loan 4 onwards. And thought that had it 
done so, it wouldve likely  understood these  loans would not have been sustainably  
affordable for him. These findings were set out in some detail in a view letter  to the lender.  
Ref: DRN06258212QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Mr Ps income  and expenses before funding  all these loans.  Its said it 
started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the changes  
were completed by 28 February 2015.
It said that starting 1 March 2015, before Mr P borrowed the loans  in question,  it had 
implemented an affordability review that was consistent with the FCA (Financial Conduct 
Authority) Handbook and was in place at the time it received  authorisation by the FCA. And 
that its assessment  was conducted properly and individually for each of these  applications.
QuickQuid raised this argument, in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  However  our job is to look not only into the rules and regulations  
set by the regulator at the time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice  and all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to help us decide whether we think  what  QuickQuid 
has done is fair and reasonable. And in this particular case  I don't think  it was right to 
provide Mr P with some of the loans he borrowed from 2015 onwards.
This service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic argument directly  and through  
earlier final decisions. So Im not going  to expand on this point any further  here, though I 
have considered it alongside  everything  else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Ps complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Mr P borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind  
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
Ref: DRN06258213-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship
When Mr P took out loan 4, he borrowed £1,000, which was due to be repaid over three 
months, with a highest monthly repayment  of around  £1,224. This was the largest amount of 
money Mr P had borrowed up until this point,  and the highest  monthly  repayment  due on this 
loan, made  up a significant proportion of Mr Ps stated monthly income of around £3,360.
Given the size of this loan in relation to Mr Ps earnings, I think  QuidQuids checks  shouldve  
gone further. By now I think it shouldve built a full picture of Mr Ps financial circumstances, 
and verified the information it was given before lending to him from this point on. So Ive 
looked at the evidence  Mr Ps provided, to work  out what  I think  proportionate checks 
wouldve shown QuickQuid, had they been  carried  out at the time. 
Having done so, I can see that when  Mr P applied for loan 4, Mr Ps total monthly living costs 
alone, were already more than he was earning, with him paying out over £4,000 a month 
towards his household expenses. This included payments of over £2,000 a month on his 
rent, over £1,000 a month towards  his food shopping, and the remainder on utility  bills.                 
Proportionate checks, as well as revealing the above costs, wouldve also shown QuickQuid 
that when Mr P applied  for loan 4, he was earning  around £3,500  a month.  But they wouldve 
also shown, that he owed over £1,000 a month towards his regular credit commitments,  
including several  credit cards and loans, and was due to pay over £1,200 the following 
month to another short-term lender. 
So I think had Quick  Quid carried  out proportionate checks when Mr P applied  for loan 4, it 
wouldve seen that his total monthly  expenditure already significantly exceeded  his income,  
and that he was in no position  to be able to meet further credit repayments  in a sustainable 
manner. So as a responsible lender, I dont think  it wouldve lent to him knowing this. 
Mr P then went  on to take out a further  four loans (loans 5  8) between August 2017 and 
December 2017,  and throughout this time, his financial position remained relatively similar. 
His monthly income ranged  from around £3,400 to £3,900.  But his monthly living costs 
during this period also ranged  from around  £2,500 to over £4,000.  And Mr P owed to both 
his regular and short-term creditors, between £1,100 to £2,700 a month throughout this time.  
Looking at the specific months  in which these costs fell due, when Mr P took out loans 5  8, 
his expenditure  exceeded  his monthly income on all four occasions, by between £1,100 to 
over £2,500 each  month. 
So had QuickQuid  carried out proportionate checks when Mr P applied for loans  5 - 8, it 
wouldve seen that he was already seriously  overcommitted  financially,  and was not in a 
position to maintain any further credit repayments  at this time. So as a responsible  lender, I 
dont think it wouldve agreed  to these applications  knowing  this. 
Ive considered the fact that Mr P received a bonus  payment  from his employer in 
June 2017. But I dont have sufficient evidence to determine whether or not Mr P was aware  
at the time of taking out loan 4, that he would  be receiving this payment in June.
However, even if I had concluded  he was aware of this, he didnt receive this money until 
20 June 2017.  So he wouldnt have  been in receipt of it at the time his first instalment on 
Ref: DRN06258214loan 4 was due on 30 May 2017. So it wouldnt have made a difference to the affordability of 
loan 4 for Mr P.
And when  Mr P applied  for loan 5, there  doesnt appear to be any money left over from this 
bonus payment.  So in the circumstances of Mr Ps case, the bonus payment doesnt seem to 
have altered his underlying financial position.  So I think  the above loans wouldve still 
appeared to QuickQuid to have been  unaffordable for Mr P had it carried  out proportionate 
checks at the time. And therefore  I dont think it wouldve lent to him knowing this.
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid shouldnt have agreed to loans 4  8 for 
Mr P. So it needs to refund all of the interest and charges Mr P paid towards  these.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loans it agreed  between May 2017 and 
December 2017
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Ps credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ps complaint  in part.
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as QuickQuid to put things right as described  
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019. 
Brad Mcilquham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0625821