K820x#14complaint
T, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted its bank account causing  
inconvenience and financial  loss.
background
HSBC contacted T to ask it for details about a payment that had been made into its account.  
It then applied a block to the account  between 8 and 19 November 2018. T is unhappy  that a 
further block was placed on its account  between 14 and 31 December 2018. It says it should  
have been told about this in advance and all it was asked for was the same information 
about the payment. HSBC paid T a £50 gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that HSBC  had 
to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. Under the terms and conditions  of the 
account this could include applying a block while it reviewed a payment. It didnt have  to give 
advance notice of this and there was no set time period for a review. So she didnt think  
HSBC had acted  unreasonably but noted  it had recognised an element of inconvenience 
caused. We could  only look at the impact  on T here, not on the director personally. 
T did not agree.  It said that it accepted the reasons  for the first block on the account.  But it 
didnt think HSBC had followed  the correct procedure when it blocked the account for a 
second time. It was unreasonable  to say that if there  was an impact  on T there wouldnt be 
stress and embarrassment for the director.  And if HSBC needed information it should be 
able to obtain this by phone or email  and not require  the director to go to a branch. When  he 
did staff didnt seem to know what was required and T didnt  think  any new evidence was 
collected the second time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our investigator that HSBC has to put in place its own processes  to satisfy itself 
that it is complying with legal and regulatory requirements. We dont have a role in saying 
what those should  be as we are not the regulator. I note for example that HSBC had already 
looked into a different  payment made to T about  the same time and had stated then in a final 
response of 2 November  2018 that your  account  has been temporarily inhibited due to the 
fraud investigations. It had then explained that it required a branch visit by the director  to 
have a discussion with a staff member  and provide any evidence.
So I think that it broadly  applied  the same process with the other payment. I appreciate that 
on 19 November 2018 it had told T that our enquiry into the credit on your account is now 
complete but that on 31 December 2018  that this had required  additional review  by HSBC.
I appreciate why T thinks that the further  review of the same payment was a duplication and 
unnecessary. And that this caused  it business disruption and loss.
Im afraid I dont have  a reasonable  basis to find either that HSBC  should not have taken the 
further actions  or that it should have  completed things more quickly.  It is entitled to review  
the transactions on an account and take into account all the evidence it has about them.  Im 
satisfied that it decided to undertake a further review. And its process is to ask a 
Ref: DRN09321562representative of T to visit a branch.  I wouldnt  expect it to have told T about its investigation 
in advance or to say anything more about  it now. 
By its nature such an investigation will likely cause inconvenience but I dont think  thats 
something HSBC should  be required to compensate T for. Here  it had paid a gesture of 
goodwill to T of £50. And as this complaint is from T a separate legal entity Im afraid I cant  
consider any impact on the director. So I wont  be asking HSBC  to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0932156