K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly and unreasonably recorded a default on her 
credit file because of a balance  on her credit card that she believed she had previously 
repaid in full.
background
In March 2018 Ms A was contacted by a debt collection  agency about a balance on her 
Lloyds credit card that she believed  she had paid off in 2009.  The debt collection agency 
assured Ms A that her credit file hadnt been  affected, but she subsequently discovered that 
Lloyds had registered a default  that month. Although Ms A acknowledges that she has 
moved a number of times since 2009,  and not provided her new address to Lloyds, she 
nevertheless believes  that the bank should  have  made greater efforts  to contact her about 
the balance before registering  a default.
Our adjudicator noted that Ms A had made  a £3000 payment to the card in 2007 leaving a 
balance of almost £600. After that minimum repayments continued  to be made by direct  
debit until that was cancelled in August 2017.  Ms A said the direct debit had been brought to 
her attention by her bookkeeper,  but as she had no recollection of its purpose she cancelled 
it. 
Lloyds sent Ms A arrears notices in both September and October 2017, and issued a default 
notice in November.  The bank sent these  to the address  it had on record  for Ms A, but she 
had moved a number  of times since then. But as she hadnt told the bank she didnt receive 
its communications about the outstanding balance. Before registering a default  on Ms As 
credit file Lloyds tried unsuccessfully to locate her using a trace report facility  through a 
credit reference agency. 
Having considered what had happened here our adjudicator didnt believe that Lloyds  had 
done anything  wrong. Ms A wanted  the default  removing  from her credit file, but our 
adjudicators view was that as it hadnt  been incorrectly  recorded  she couldnt reasonably 
ask the bank to remove  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having made a large repayment to her credit card balance in 2007 Ms A believed  she had 
repaid it in full. Ms A advances no reason  for that belief  and she didnt seek  confirmation  at 
the time  or subsequently   from Lloyds.
But believing she had repaid the full balance Ms A nevertheless left the monthly  direct  debit 
in place for the next 10 years. This repaid  the minimum monthly repayment which  covered  
interest, fees and charges and also reduced the outstanding balance. 
The direct debit came from Ms As business  account  and in 2017 her bookkeeper brought  
the matter to her attention. Ms A couldnt  remember anything  about the direct debit and 
cancelled it. It is unfortunate that she didnt investigate the matter a little more fully at the 
time given  that the payment had been in place for 10 years and the money  must  have  been  
going somewhere. But having  cancelled the direct debit Ms A she says she thought no more  
about the matter  until contacted by a debt collection agency.
Ref: DRN03106572For its part Lloyds had no concerns about Ms As account until the direct debit was 
cancelled. Ms A had been meeting the minimum monthly repayments, the card was not 
being used and the balance was reducing, albeit  very slowly. But once  the repayments 
stopped Lloyds followed its standard procedures to ensure that the money it was owed was 
repaid. It issued the required  arrears notices and a default notice. And it attempted find 
Ms As current address as she hadnt  informed the bank of her various moves.
In my view Lloyds did all I would  reasonably have expected it to do under the circumstances.  
Ms A owed the bank money despite  believing she did not. Consumers who borrow  money  
have a responsibility to repay that debt in line with their account terms and conditions. Ms A 
didnt do so and although she believed she had this hadnt been  confirmed by Lloyds. 
Consequently I find that the bank acted fairly and reasonably in recording a default  on 
Ms As credit  file following  her cancellation of her repayments.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0310657