K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs K say Nationwide  Building  Society (trading at the time as Staffordshire  
Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003. 
The sale took place  during a meeting, in which Mr S and Mrs K also applied  for the 
mortgage. The policy covered Mr S. It protected Mr S and Mrs Ks monthly mortgage 
payments if Mr S was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  The policy was free for the 
first six months, after which Mr S and Mrs K paid a monthly premium for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr S and Mrs Ks mortgage  application. It included a section on 
Mortgage Payment Protection (PPI). It briefly outlined the purpose  of the cover,  and 
said that Nationwide strongly recommended it. Mr S and Mrs K both indicated  that theyd 
like further information about  PPI. On the same  day, Mr S applied, on a separate  
application form, for PPI cover against disability (accident and sickness) only.
I think it would have  been clear from the way that the PPI was referred to on the 
mortgage application that it was an optional product. Mr S signed a separate application 
and direct debit mandate for the PPI. And he chose to take the cover against disability 
only, rather than disability and unemployment.  Taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide made  Mr S and Mrs K aware that the PPI was optional,  And 
I think they chose  to take out the cover for Mr S, having considered what type of cover  
they wanted.
Mr S and Mrs K say that Nationwide  recommended  the PPI to them. Nationwide disputes  
this. While I dont  doubt its Mr S and Mrs Ks honest  recollection,  Ive borne in mind  that 
the meeting took place many years  ago, and memories can, and do, fade.  From what  
Ive seen  Im not persuaded that Nationwide recommended  the PPI to Mr S and Mrs K, 
or gave them  advice  about its suitability  for them. I say this as theres no evidence it 
looked at their individual  circumstances, or provided advice on that basis. 
Ref: DRN00351772I acknowledge that Mr S and Mrs K have  pointed out that the mortgage application said 
that Nationwide strongly recommended  the cover. But I dont think theyd have 
considered this pre-printed  statement  to be a personalised  recommendation, addressed 
particularly to them. This means  Nationwide didnt have to check that the policy was right 
for them. It was for Mr S and Mrs K to decide  whether  they wanted to take the PPI, 
knowing what alternative means  theyd have had of making  their mortgage payments if 
Mr S was off sick.
The monthly cost of the policy was shown  on both the mortgage quote and the mortgage 
offer. So I think Mr S and Mrs K would have understood how much  theyd need to pay for 
it. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr S and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr S chose to take 
out the policy. So he appears  to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on what  hes told us 
about his circumstances at the time,  he wasnt affected by the main  things  the policy 
didnt cover (for example  unusual employment situations or existing medical conditions).
I acknowledge that Mr S and Mrs K have told us that Mr S would have been  entitled  to 
sick pay from his employer. But if hed made  a successful claim on the policy,  it would 
have covered Mr S and Mrs Ks mortgage  payments for up to 12 months. Thats 
significantly longer  than Mr S has told us hed have been entitled  to full pay for. Whats 
more it would have  paid out in addition to any payments Mr S received from his 
employer. So Mr S and Mrs K could have  used those to meet  other day-to-day 
expenses. I think  this would have been  particularly  useful to Mr S and Mrs K, as theyve  
told us that Mrs K wasnt earning at the time. 
I also acknowledge that Mr S and Mrs K have provided evidence that they had significant 
savings, as well as income from property. But Ive borne  in mind that theyd chosen to 
protect their savings and rental income instead  of taking a smaller mortgage.  The policy 
was free for the first six months.  And as Mr S and Mrs K were paying for it monthly  once 
the free period ended, they could have cancelled it at any time, without further cost if 
they changed their mind, or if their circumstances changed. So taking everything into 
account, I think its unlikely that Mr S would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance, I think hed still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0035177