K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage in 1986.  Its unclear exactly when they took out PPI  but 
Halifaxs records show that they were paying  for PPI in 1991.The  PPI covered  Mr M for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and protected Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our 
adjudicator. Mr and Mrs Ms main complaint is that they didnt fully understand 
mortgage/protection options and they felt they had to take out the insurance. They also dont 
feel they needed PPI as they had other means to rely on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Although the PPI was just in Mr Ms name,  as Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage  in joint 
names Ive looked  at both their circumstances when  the policy was taken out.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Heres  why I say this.
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage at a Halifax  branch.  Normally,  Id expect the 
paperwork to show whats likely to have happened and how the PPI was likely to have  been  
presented. But its not surprising,  given  how long ago this sale happened,  that paperwork 
isnt still available. I wouldnt expect  Halifax  or Mr and Mrs M to have kept this. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs M remember about the sale after 
such a long time.  
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. The mortgage  was a major  
financial commitment, repayable over a substantial number of years.  Mr and Mrs Ms home 
wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided 
dependable cover and significantly better protection than they had otherwise. So, I can see 
why Mr and Mrs M mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
Ive taken into account that its possible  that Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI after their 
mortgage started.  But if they had taken  out their mortgage without  PPI in the first place, 
I think they would've understood that PPI was an optional extra  as they hadnt  had to have it 
when they started  their mortgage. And Mr and Mrs M would've had to fill in a separate  PPI 
application if theyd  decided later that they wanted to take out PPI. So not knowing the exact 
date Halifax sold them the policy  doesnt make any difference to my overall view.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M decided  they wanted  to protect their home by 
taking out the PPI offered  and, either  when they started their mortgage or some  time later, 
they chose to buy the policy.  
Ref: DRN06766992Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. So Halifax shouldve taken 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover was suitable for them.  And it had to give 
Mr and Mrs M important  information they needed  to know  in a clear  way.
Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document  from when Mr and Mrs M 
took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use afterwards  so I think  
its likely  that in all main  respects the policy that they took out to cover Mr M wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr M wasnt eligible for PPI. 
I think its most likely  that the policy protected Mr M for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
And the policy wouldve also covered the mortgage  repayments if he had an accident or was 
too sick or disabled to work. 
Mr and Mrs M both worked for the same employer.  Looking at their terms of employment 
I can see that Mr M couldve relied on getting  28 weeks full sick pay. But the policy wouldve 
paid out, on top of any work benefits, for up to 12 months per disability claim. And 
Mr M couldve made repeated claims on the policy. So PPI provided  long term cover whilst 
Mr and Mrs M had to pay their mortgage.     
Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of discretionary  sick pay being paid over 
and above this. And I've taken into account  that Mrs M received some sick pay for over a 
year when she was unfortunately off work for a long time. But Im looking at Mr Ms 
contractual entitlement  because thats  all he could safely  rely on when he took out the PPI. 
Relying on an employer  to pay sick pay when it doesn't  have  to isnt as dependable  as 
taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly  benefit in the event of a successful  claim.
Relying  on Mrs Ms pay to cover the mortgage monthly repayments isnt as dependable  as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  And as the mortgage  
was taken out when they were both in work,  I think its likely that if Mr M lost his job this 
wouldve had a significant impact on their joint finances. I think it mightve been difficult  for 
Mrs M to keep  up with the mortgage  payments  particularly as they mightve had to face 
additional costs  if Mr M was too sick or disabled to work. 
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr M was off work sick. PPI wouldve  paid out 
in addition to any redundancy  money  he mightve  got, giving Mr and Mrs M some additional 
financial security if hed lost his job.  
Regular bonuses from work wouldnt have been  something Mr M could depend on getting if 
he was sick or disabled from working  or if he lost his job, 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs M told us about  the amount of savings they 
had. But I dont know if Mr and Mrs M wouldve always  had savings they could rely on if 
theyd needed  to make a claim. And, as they chose to borrow the money they required, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs M mightve  preferred not to spend all their savings. Having PPI meant 
they could keep savings intact to provide financial security for the future or spend the money  
on other things they may have been saving up for. So, I think the policy  couldve still been 
useful to them.
Ref: DRN06766993Share values can go up and down. Although Mr and Mrs M mentioned  having  some shares, 
having PPI meant they werent at risk of being  forced to sell any shares  perhaps  at a time 
not of their choosing when they mightnt have been  able to achieve the price they hoped for. 
Overall, looking at everything Mr and Mrs M told us about their circumstances, I think that 
PPI was suitable for them.   
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover.  So, I think it unlikely 
that having better information about the policys exclusions  and limitations wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Ms decision to take out the cover for Mr M.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs M when  they bought the policy. 
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  Its possible 
there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think Mr and Mrs M 
still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better  informed as the policy gave them  
useful protection  in their particular situation. So I dont  find theyve lost out financially as a 
result of anything that Halifax  mightve done  wrong.
I do understand that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M. And I appreciate 
they feel strongly about their complaint. But I hope  that setting things out as Ive done  helps 
to explain the reasons  for my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0676699