K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mr G took out in 1996. It 
was sold to him in store.  The PPI covered Mr G if he couldnt  work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that FICL 
hadnt brought the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mr Gs attention.  And that, if it had 
done, he wouldnt have  taken the policy.
FICL didnt  agree saying, in summary,  that it hadnt  seen enough information  to suggest that 
Mr Gs condition wouldve affected  his decision  to take out the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mr G, so it didnt  have to make sure it was suitable for 
him. But it did have  to provide him with information  which was clear,  fair and not misleading  
so that he could make an informed choice about  the insurance he was buying.
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.  Mr G 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness or disability claim for, any sickness,  
disease, condition  or injury which you knew  about or ought to have known about or which 
you asked about  or received advice, treatment  or counselling for from any doctor, during the 
12 months immediately  before the starting  date.
Mr G told us hed been diagnosed with a condition more than ten years before he was sold 
the policy. This condition  wouldnt have been covered by the policy.  The nature of the 
condition suggests  to me that, even if the condition was being  successfully managed  though 
medication in 1996, Mr G would have anticipated that any time off work would likely be due 
to this condition.  So I find that, had the exclusion terms  been brought to his attention, its 
more likely than not that Mr G wouldnt have taken the policy.
Ref: DRN07259002putting things right
FICL should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
A.Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
B.Add simple  interest  to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back.  The rate 
of interest is 8% a year. 
C.If Mr G made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
D.If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr G that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted  by FICL  from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax FICL have taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Financial Insurance Company Limited 
should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0725900