K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants Specialist Motor  
Finance to pay for the repairs.
Background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 
19 December 2019, a copy of which is attached. I didnt think  the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied and that Specialist  Motor Finance should reimburse Mr C for the 
costs of repair - £1,732.54   and pay him £100  for the distress  and inconvenience caused. I 
couldnt conclude  that the current  problems Mr C was reporting with the car were connected 
to the original ECU fault. But I invited Mr C to submit  more evidence.
Specialist Motor Finance responded to say, in summary, that:
 It didnt  agree  to reimburse Mr C for the cost of the initial repairs  (£162). It said Mr C 
failed to make it aware that there was an issue with the car and it didnt authorise the 
repair.
 It didnt  agree  to reimburse Mr C for the cost of the manufacturers repairs (£1,570.54). 
Again it said Mr C failed  to make it aware  that there was an issue with the car and it 
didnt authorise  the repair. It said it should have been given the opportunity to source 
the repairs at a lower cost.
 The repairs were carried out 15 months after the car had been  supplied and it had 
been driven 4,000 miles, so it wasnt clear  beyond all reasonable doubt that the faults 
were present when the car was supplied.
Mr C provided  us with an independent report.  And he said the cost of repairs  carried out in 
October 2018 was £2,507.64, not £1,570.54.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when  it was 
supplied but that, in all likelihood and in the absence of any independent evidence, the 
repairs had fixed the problem. And that the problems  Mr C is continuing to report are 
unrelated to the initial fault.
In response, Mr C arranged his own independent  report.
The initial problem  as outlined in the first independent report dated  February  2018  was 
that the car had electrical problems and this led to assorted  and varying dash panel 
warnings, particularly following heavy rain.
Ref: DRN02240582The recent independent inspection, carried out in January 2020, found  three  fault codes:
Instrument cluster fault  U1900-20. CAN communication  bus fault  receive error
U0100-20  lost communication with PCM
U0129-20  lost communication with brake  system control module.
The report  explains that codes beginning with U indicate module to module communication 
faults. The inspector  thought it was likely that, somewhere within the CAN  bus network 
(Controller Area Network) an electrical  connector, wiring harness  or module may have 
failed.
The report  concludes that:
Considering the 'down time' and repairs  undertaken  on this vehicle, including  the 
unease experienced when driving this car, the original symptoms  that were  subject  of 
the owners complaints still exist.
A 'power  steering malfunction' warning  is at best disconcerting and the engine surging  
when experienced removes any desire  to drive this car.
With the likelihood of other, and possibly more serious faults developing, the feeling is 
that this may become  'an accident  waiting  to happen'
But the report doesnt seem to have linked the three fault codes to the original problem.  
Theres no evidence in the report that a power steering malfunction is occurring now and 
theres no evidence  that the inspector drove  the car and experienced any engine surging . 
And its not clear to me on what basis he feels theres a likelihood of more serious faults  
developing. Im also mindful that, since the last independent report, the car has covered 
nearly 12,000  miles. 
It is difficult to conclude  after all this time, and the mileage driven, that the current faults  Mr C 
is reporting are directly linked to the original problem  and not just wear and tear issues. And 
I dont think the content  of the independent report now provided clearly  demonstrates  that.
So, after careful  consideration of the content of that report and the other evidence, my 
conclusion about  the current problems hasnt  changed.  I dont think Specialist Motor Finance 
needs to pay for any further investigation  or repair.
I will now turn to the comments provided  by Specialist Motor  Finance in response to my 
provisional decision.
Ive already explained why I think the fault which caused the car to break  down around  three 
months after it was supplied was more than likely  present when the car was supplied.  
Specialist Motor Finance says this isnt beyond all reasonable doubt. And I agree. But, as 
Ive explained,  my role requires me to come  to a fair and reasonable conclusion, taking into 
account all the evidence and arguments.  Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive,  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in 
other words, what I consider is most  likely to have  happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider circumstances. Specialist Motor Finance hasnt provided any new 
evidence which would  lead me to change  my original conclusion   that the car wasnt  
satisfactory when it was supplied.
Ref: DRN02240583Specialist Motor Finance says Mr C didnt report the problems  to it so it didnt have the 
opportunity to inspect  or carry out any repairs. The first invoice was for the cost of 
emergency repairs to get Mr C back on the road so that he could  drive  the car to the 
supplying garage. I think  Mr C acted reasonably and I think Specialist Motor Finance should  
reimburse him for that cost.
The supplying garage inspected the car and told him he would need to get it repaired by one 
of the manufacturers  garages. And this is what Mr C arranged to do, albeit there was some  
delay in him arranging this. So whilst he didnt seek Specialist Motor Finances agreement  to 
do this, he was following  what  hed been  told to do by the supplying garage. Bearing in mind  
also that the manufacturer had issued  a modification, I think  it was reasonable for Mr C to 
take the car to a garage  owned by the manufacturer to complete the modification and carry 
out the necessary repairs. Specialist Motor Finance should reimburse Mr C for this cost.
The total invoice  was £2,507.64 but, as I explained  in my provisional decision, this included 
the cost of an MOT and a replacement  coil spring which are not items I would expect 
Specialist Motor Finance to pay for as they are unconnected to the fault with the ECU.
My final decision
My final decision is that Specialist Motor Finance should:
1.Pay Mr C £162 to reimburse him for the costs of the initial  repair.
2.Pay Mr C £1,570.54 to reimburse him for the costs of the manufacturers repair.
3.Pay Mr C £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN02240584Copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr C complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance  Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants Specialist Motor  Finance to 
pay for the repairs.
Background
Mr C obtained a second  hand  car in July 2017, financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance.
Just over three months later the car broke down. Mr C called a breakdown  service  and it found  that 
there was a fault with the engine control unit (ECU). The car was towed to a nearby garage and Mr 
C authorised it to carry out a repair to get the car back on the road. The garage found there was water 
in the fuse board  and repaired this at a cost of £162.
The repair allowed Mr C to drive the car, but he says error codes continued  and the car kept going  
into limp mode; so he returned the car to the supplying  garage.
The garage  said it couldnt  fix the problem  and that Mr C would need to take the car to one of the 
manufacturers garages. It offered to pay 25% towards the cost of repairs  already carried out.
Mr C didnt accept this, so referred his complaint to Specialist Motor  Finance. It arranged for an 
independent inspection of the car. Based on the reports conclusions, Specialist Motor Finance  didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint,  so he referred it to us.
Since the complaint  has been  with us, Mr C has taken the car to one of the manufacturers  garages.  It 
replaced the ABS module  and the body control module (BCM).
But Mr C says there is still a problem  with the ECU and that the manufacturer  has acknowledged 
there may be an underlying  issue  but it cant diagnose  what  that is.
Our adjudicators view
The first adjudicator who investigated the complaint concluded that faults  were most  likely present 
when the car was supplied and that Specialist  Motor  Finance should  allow Mr C to reject the car. But 
Specialist Motor Finance  referred us back to the independent report which  had concluded the car was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
A second adjudicator  concluded that there wasnt enough evidence  to say when the faults occurred 
and whether they were  or werent  present at the point of supply. She thought  Specialist Motor Finance  
should arrange for a full inspection and pay for any required repairs in full. She also thought  it should 
pay Mr C 50% of the costs hed already incurred and pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Specialist Motor Finance  said it would  carry out an inspection and it would  pay for the costs of repair 
for any faults that the report concludes were present  when  the car was supplied. And it agreed to pay 
Mr C £100 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. But it didnt agree to reimburse Mr C for the 
repairs carried  out as it wasnt given the opportunity  to inspect the car before  it was repaired.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN02240585In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard  to the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider 
to have been  good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase  agreement is a regulated consumer  credit agreement. As such, this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Specialist Motor Finance  is the supplier of goods under  this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied  term that the quality 
of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint I would have to be persuaded that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality and so a breach  of contract  has taken  place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age when it 
was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since  it was supplied and how long after supply the 
fault materialised. 
The car in this case was around five years old when it was supplied in July 2017 and its mileage was 
around 58,000 miles. I wouldnt expect a car like this to be free from all faults, as I would  a brand  new 
car. Inevitably various wear  and tear issues will arise.  But 
I would expect  the car to be in a reasonable condition  for its age and mileage.
The car broke down around three  months after the car had been supplied  and Mr C had to arrange for 
it to be towed  to a garage for repair. The garage found that there was water in the fuse box. It carried 
out some repairs to get the car back on the road. 
Mr C didnt really  drive  the car over the next few months  while  he was waiting for the supplying 
garage and Specialist Motor Finance to investigate his complaint. He says various dashboard  warning  
lights were  coming on and he was worried about it breaking down again. 
It was around four months later that the independent inspection was carried out. The inspector didnt 
find any dashboard warnings, but he noted that:
theres evidence of some  dampness  penetration  in and around the areas of the fuse box/body 
control module. The carpet does not display  any evidence  of major  water penetration which  would 
suggest that the body control  module/fuse box [is] suffering from condensation.
I find the conclusions of the report  somewhat  contradictory. It concludes that the car was fit for 
purpose and of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. But it also concludes  that:
the symptoms are characteristic of the known  issues of condensation building up in the body 
control module .as previously stated the manufacturer is aware of this issue and has now 
issued a modification .
I think  that  because this is a known fault,  recognised and acknowledged  by the manufacturer  it 
follows that the car was not of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied. This means I think  Specialist 
Motor Finance should pay for the cost of repair.
When the car broke down, Mr Cs contract with the vehicle breakdown company provided  for the car 
to be towed to the nearest  garage. I think it was reasonable that Mr C arranged for that garage to 
carry out an interim repair to get the car back on the road. This cost £162 and I think  Specialist Motor  
Finance should reimburse Mr C in full.
There was a long delay before Mr C arranged  to take the car to one of the manufacturers garages  
but this was because he was hoping  that his complaint would be resolved by Specialist Motor  Finance 
or by us. And I can see from the mileage  record that he didnt drive  the car during this period.
Ref: DRN02240586In October 2018 the manufacturers garage renewed the ABS module and replaced the BCM  at a cost 
of £1,570.54, including  VAT. I can see that the garage tested the car and was satisfied that these 
repairs had been successful.  I think its fair and reasonable that Specialist Motor Finance  should  
reimburse Mr C for this cost.
The garage  also carried out an MOT and replaced a coil spring,  but this is unconnected to the fault 
with the ECU,  so I wont be asking  Specialist  Motor Finance  to pay for these  costs.
Current reported faults
Mr C says he is still having  problems with the car. He told us there is still an ECU problem every  time 
he starts the car and that the manufacturer thinks there is an undiagnosed underlying  problem. But he 
hasnt provided evidence to support this. Mr C is aware that, for me to conclude that any current  faults 
with the car are connected  to the fault which caused the car to break  down  in October  2017, I would 
need to see an independent report. And, because it is so long now since the car was supplied,  it is for 
Mr C  rather than Specialist Motor Finance  to arrange for this report.
In the absence  of further evidence and a report, I cant conclude that any current problems with the 
car are linked to the original ECU  fault. I think they are most likely  to be normal wear and tear issues.  
So I wont be ordering Specialist Motor Finance to pay for any further repairs.
Distress and inconvenience
When Mr C complained to the supplying  garage, it inspected the car but told Mr C he would  need to 
take it to a manufacturers garage for repair.  I dont  find this was unreasonable. But although  it offered 
to pay 25% of the repair costs already incurred,  I cant see that it offered  to pay for the further repairs  
that were needed. So I can see why Mr C didnt want to arrange for these repairs and why he referred  
his complaint to Specialist  Motor Finance.
Specialist Motor Finance  arranged for an independent inspection,  which is what  I would  have 
expected it to do. As noted earlier, I think the inspections  conclusions were  contradictory.  But it did 
say that the car was satisfactory  when  it was supplied.  Whilst Ive explained why 
I think  this was wrong, I can see why Specialist  Motor Finance  relied on this conclusion and didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Overall, although Ive come  to a different conclusion to Specialist Motor Finance,  I dont think it did, or 
didnt, do anything to cause Mr C any undue distress or inconvenience.  Its agreed to pay him £100 
compensation and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that Specialist Motor Finance should:
4. Pay Mr C £162  to reimburse him for the costs of the initial repair.
5. Pay Mr C £1,570.54 to reimburse him for the costs of the manufacturers repair.
6. Pay Mr C £100  compensation.
Both Mr C and Specialist  Motor Finance now have till the due date set out above to send  in any 
further information, should  they wish to do so. All I would add is that any final submissions should be 
materially new. Neither party  needs  to repeat  what  its said to us before.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0224058