K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Santander UK Plc has treated her unfairly in the customer  service it 
has provided to her regarding her online banking. 
background
This complaint is about how Santander treated Mrs O with regard to her balances  and direct 
debits that presented on the 25th October 2018.  Mrs O feels  that Santander should have 
done more to show direct debits that were to be presented on its online systems. She also 
says that Santander took money  from her account early to pay a Santander credit  card 
account.
So Mrs O complained to Santander and it said it hadnt done anything wrong. So she 
complained here and our investigator said that Santander hadnt done anything  wrong.  So 
her complaint comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O is clearly frustrated  that on 25th October  2018 she logged  in to her account repeatedly 
having received  text alerts saying she was short of funds  for transactions  that were being  
presented. I can see she repeatedly moved  money into her account after such alerts  but 
some transactions that presented werent paid that day. So I can see why she feels  
frustrated.
Having said that I dont think Santander  has done anything  wrong. And it seems to me that 
Mrs O doesnt fully appreciate either how direct debits work or the complexity of such  
transactions. A direct  debit is a customers authority  to allow a person or organisation to 
claim a variable amount,  on a variable day from their account. Its also the customers 
instruction to their bank  or building society to allow the payments to be taken. So the money  
is claimed from a customers account. As such it is driven by the claiming side when  they 
wish to claim it. So in this instance for the direct debits impacting Mrs Os account Santander 
is entirely reactive to the claims being made which may or may not be made  at any specific 
time or day. As such Santander doesnt show predicted direct debits on the live balance,  it 
only shows those that have been taken.  Separately it does show  a list of active direct debits 
(and other forms of payments) to enable the accountholder to understand likely direct debits 
to be claimed and to ensure sufficient funds  are available to meet  those transactions.
It is clear from the terms and conditions of the account that it is the accountholders duty to 
monitor their account. Alerts, such as that sent to Mrs O, are aids to help accountholders 
monitor their accounts. They do not replace the need for accountholders to monitor  their 
accounts.
Having considered what has happened here it is clear that Mrs O had sufficient funds across 
all her accounts to meet  the direct  debits being presented.  But it seems Mrs O wasnt  as 
proactive as she could  have  been in making sure the right amount  of money was in the right 
account at the right time.  Hence  Mrs O found  herself  in the pattern  of her receiving an alert,  
moving funds, transactions completing,  alerts, moving funds  and transactions completing. 
Some of these transactions were relatively  small  and as such Santander chose to let them 
Ref: DRN05526672through. But others were larger and Santander chose to block them for insufficient funds as 
it is allowed  to do and did so fairly.
Lastly how Santander chooses to run its online facility is a commercial decision for it. I 
cannot tell it to amend or change it. However  when I see issues  with it I can tell it how to 
make things right for the complainant. Im not persuaded it has done anything  wrong  here.
I can see Mrs O also then arranged an overdraft facility in order  to stop such issues  arising. 
But as it wasnt approved immediately it didnt impact what  happened with the direct debits 
on that day.
Ive also considered the payment of the credit  card bill and I can see from statements that it 
makes clear  that the money will be debited the day before its due. So I dont think  
Santander did anything  wrong here either.
All in all Im not persuaded Santander has done anything wrong here. I appreciate  this isnt 
the decision that Mrs O wants to hear. But it would be unfair  of me to decide  anything else. 
Consequently I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0552667