K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Lloyds  Bank  General  Insurance  Limited has declined  a claim 
they made under their household insurance  policy.  They  claimed for damage to their drains, 
which they believe happened because of heavy machinery being parked  on their drive  while  
they were renovating their home.
background
In the spring of 2019 Mr and Mrs M suffered a blockage in their drain. They  called out a 
drainage company, which cleared the blockage and identified that it had happened  because 
tree roots had entered the pipe where sections  of the pipe had become disjointed. Their 
contractor considered it likely the damage  had been caused by heavy vehicles and items of 
plant equipment using the drive when they had renovations done in 2016. They made a 
claim to Lloyds.
Lloyds sent out its drainage experts  to assess the issue. The drains had blocked again by 
this point. It cleared  the blockage and reported  back to Lloyds about  the damage  to the pipe. 
It was determined that the blockages had been caused by tree roots entering the pipe. It, 
however, identified six joints that had become disjointed (and allowed the ingress  of the tree 
roots).
Three weeks later, after chasing Lloyds, Mr and Mrs M were  told the claim was being 
declined as it didnt  consider the damage  was covered by the policy.  This was because  
drains suffering  from root ingress was considered a blockage and the cost of clearing 
blockages was not covered by the policy. It said the displaced joints were  considered  a 
maintenance issue and not an insured event. Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs M £25 as an apology  
for the delay  in telling  them the outcome of their claim.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this response and the drainage  experts were sent out 
again. On that occasion, Mr M took a day off work to be there when the inspection  was done, 
but it was done when  it was known he wouldnt be there. The drainage  company  didnt  let 
Mr M know that it had completed its inspection,  so he thought it hadnt turned up for the 
appointment.  Lloyds  didnt  change its decision following the further inspection.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Lloyds about its decision and the service they received. Lloyds 
accepted it had provided poor service and it paid Mr and Mrs M £50 compensation for their 
trouble. However,  it maintained its stance on the claim  that there  was no cover provided  by 
the policy. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that position and referred their complaint to this 
service.
Mr and Mrs M provided a report from their contractor which explained why he considered the 
heavy machinery had caused the damage to the pipe; both the mechanisms  of damage and 
situational information  about location and depth  of the pipes. He considered  the pipes had 
been damaged  by the machinery in 2016  and that the tree root ingress could easily  have 
occurred in the time since.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and partially upheld it. She considered  the 
damage in the form of disjointed pipes should  be covered under accidental damage  to 
services. However, she thought the minor damage  that had been caused by the tree roots, 
and the cost of the blockages they caused,  were not reasonably  covered under the policy.
Ref: DRN05760202Lloyds didnt accept  the investigators  findings. It said that where the intrusion of roots is as 
extensive as it is in this case, removal of the roots  would involve excavation  and 
replacement of the pipe. It said that when Mr and Mrs M do this to remove  the roots, there  
will be no extra cost for correcting the displaced joints.  It postulated on how the sections of 
pipe might have become  disjointed due to the type of soil was likely at the site and reiterated 
its opinion that the problems with the pipe happened long before 2016.
Lloyds arguments  didnt persuade our investigator to change her conclusions  and so the 
complaint was referred to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 December 2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
If there  is damage to underground services something must have happened  to cause that 
damage. However, because the damage  is underground it is concealed from the consumer 
and they will often not even realise  there  is damage  for some time. It isnt appropriate  to 
penalise a consumer  in such a situation. As such, this service  has for many years 
considered that claims for underground services  should be accepted by insurers unless it 
has clear evidence that an exclusion can be applied to defeat  the claim.  When  we say clear 
evidence, we would expect something more  than assumptions or postulated theories on the 
part of an insurers representative.  This approach has become good industry practice over 
the years. 
Lloyds has said it declined to deal with the jointing  issues as it has assumed it happened  
gradually. Mr and Mrs M, and their expert, believe that the damage happened when heavy 
plant equipment and vehicles were  on the drive  which covers the drainage  run. 
I think it is entirely plausible  that the damage  was caused by the heavy usage of the drive  in 
2016. However, even  if it was not, Lloyds has not provided substantive evidence that its 
assumption that the damage happened gradually  is correct. As such, I dont consider Lloyds 
treated Mr and Mrs M fairly when it considered their claim. It should accept the damage to 
the drainage run in the form of disjointing of the connections between  pipe sections. 
There is then the issue about the tree roots  and the repeated blockages they caused to 
consider. The tree roots entered the pipes as a result of the joints separating and allowing 
access. I note that Lloyds  experts concluded  at the time the drain  was inspected that the 
repairs to the pipe could be done by cutting the roots and inserting liners. This is a fairly 
standard repair for this type of damage, and it would be normal  for the insurer to include the 
root cutting and removal as part of the repair. I consider  that Lloyds should fulfil its liability 
under the insurance policy and repair the damaged  sections of pipe.  How it decides to do 
this is entirely up to it and if removing  the tree roots needs to be done to allow the repair, 
Lloyds will need to undertake this work too.
Mr and Mrs M have  suffered from repeated blockages since  the claim was made and have 
had to pay to have them cleared. If Lloyds had accepted the claim as I consider it should 
have done in early  2019,  the repair to the drains would have been completed and the roots 
that caused the further blockages are likely  to have been removed. As such, the further 
blockages of the drains wouldnt  have  occurred, and Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have had to pay 
out for them. As these costs were  an entirely  predictable consequence of the claim being  
incorrectly declined, I think Lloyds should  refund the cost of clearing the blockages since the 
claim was declined. Mr and Mrs M will need to provide Lloyds with evidence  of the costs they 
Ref: DRN05760203incurred. Interest* should be paid on these refunds from the date of payment to the date 
settlement is made. 
Mr and Mrs M have  clearly been  upset about  their claim being declined.  They  have also had 
the inconvenience of having  to have regular blockages cleared from their drains.  This is in 
addition to the service  failings  Lloyds  has already  identified  and paid a total of £150 
compensation for. I consider  it should  pay an additional £500  compensation.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional  decision. 
Lloyds didnt accept  my conclusions. It thinks that I have found Mr and Mrs Ms experts 
explanation as more plausible and, therefore,  found  in their favour. It said that I have 
rejected its expert opinion  that the cause of the damage to the drainage run because they 
are assumptions and postulated theories.  It set out the experience and qualifications  of its 
experts and said their opinions were  based  on experience of claims over many  years.  It 
made further comment about why its experts  didnt  think  Mr and Mrs Ms expert  was right 
about the cause of damage and highlighted that it had asked for any evidence  to prove 
Mr and Mrs Ms experts opinion was right. 
relevant sections of the policy
Accidental damage to services.
By services we mean  underground cables, pipes,  drains, tanks and their inspection  covers 
serving your home and for which you are legally responsible.
What we dont  cover
The cost of clearing  blocked drains or pipes.
Damage causing,  or caused by subsidence, heave or landslip. This will be considered as 
subsidence, heave or landslip damage.
Accidental damage is defined as: An accident that causes physical damage,  which is caused 
suddenly by an outside force and is not expected  and not deliberate.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, including 
Lloyds additional  comments, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Having  done so I believe Lloyds may have misunderstood my reasons for 
upholding this complaint. Whilst I have said Mr and Mrs Ms experts  conclusions  about how 
the damage happened are plausible, I did not uphold the complaint  on the basis that I found 
them more  persuasive  than the representations of Lloyds experts. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  this service has provided guidance on this type of 
claim for many years, which has been  accepted by the insurance industry over the years and 
now represents good industry practice.  Simply because the damage is underground it is 
unlikely to be identified  at the time it occurs, so proving  the exact cause of damage is going  
to be impossible in most cases. So as to not disadvantage consumers, because  of the 
nature of the peril, it is good practice  for all such claims  to be accepted. 
If an insurer then wants to apply  an exclusion to defeat the claim, the insurer needs to have 
hard evidence  that it is appropriate for it to apply that exclusion. Its expert, even one with 
Ref: DRN05760204experience and/or qualifications, providing  a theory  to allow the application of an exclusion is 
not sufficient. In the same way as Lloyds  is saying that Mr and Mrs Ms expert hasnt 
provided evidence  of the cause of damage, Lloyds hasnt provided evidence  of a nature that 
would allow it to apply  an exclusion  to defeat the claim.
I remain satisfied that, following good  industry practice, Mr and Mrs Ms claim should have 
been accepted by Lloyds  and that it hasnt  evidenced that an exclusion can be applied to 
defeat the claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint, 
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to:
Settle the claim as set out above;
If it is necessary to remove the tree roots  in order  to settle the claim,  it must do so; 
Refund the cost incurred in having the drain  cleared of further blockages since  the claim 
decision was made plus interest*  from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
Pay £500 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year. If Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited 
considers it is required  by HM Revenue  & Customs  to take off tax from any interest  due to 
Mr and Mrs M, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M 
documentation evidencing  the interest  and tax deduction they can use for HM Revenue  & 
Customs purposes,  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0576020