K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited  (Acromas) has refused 
to cover the legal fees associated with a claim she has made under her legal expenses  
insurance policy. 
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Acromas  I mean both the underwriter and any agents  
working on its behalf.
background
Miss H has a legal  expenses insurance policy  that is underwritten  by Acromas. In 2018 
Miss H contacted Acromas legal  agents to explain she wanted to make  a claim on her policy 
as she was bringing a case  against  a construction company that had done some  work on her 
home. 
At this time Acromas informed Miss H that it would refer her claim to its panel  solicitors, 
whom I will refer to as panel solicitors  A so it could review the claim and decide if it had 
reasonable prospects of success. The person  Miss H was dealing with explained that 
Acromas would not cover any of her legal costs until the claim had been accepted. 
Miss H expressed some  concern over the appointment  of panel solicitors A as she had 
previous dealings with them and hadnt  formed a favourable opinion  of their work. She 
indicated she would  want to use non-panel solicitors and asked if this would be possible. 
She was told that once  her claim had been  accepted, and the non-panel solicitors and 
Acromas had reached an agreement on fees,  it would  be possible to appoint  her own 
solicitors. However, it was still necessary for Acromas panel solicitors  to review her claim 
and decide whether or not it had reasonable prospects of success  before the underwriter 
could progress the claim any further.
At this point another firm of solicitors  were appointed, who I shall refer to as panel solicitors 
B, to consider Miss Hs case against her builders and decide  whether or not it has 
reasonable prospects of success. It started to communicate with Miss H but quickly  an issue  
arose over how Miss H could  feasibly  share  the information it needed to assess  her case. 
Miss H explained that she had numerous bundles of information relating to her case  and that 
it wouldnt be possible to post it all. She was also nervous as in many  instances she only had 
original documents  and no copies saved anywhere  else. She requested that the solicitors 
meet her for a face to face meeting but the solicitors  explained this wasnt  a service  that it 
provided. 
At the same time as these  conversations  were  taking place Miss H indicated  that she was 
obtaining a prospects of success report from an independent barrister. The panel solicitors 
agreed to review this opinion once it was available and consider the next steps after that. 
However while waiting  for this information to arrive panel solicitors B realised it had a conflict  
of interest in the case and had to be excused  from representing Miss H. So Acromas 
appointed another firm of solicitors, panel solicitors C, to continue assessing the likely 
prospects of success of Miss Hs claim and confirm whether  or not it would accept her claim.  
During this time Miss H agreed  to pay the barrister a fee for providing their opinion  on the 
whether or not her case was likely  to win in court. The barrister  did provide their opinion in 
March 2019 and it was positive, stating  Miss Hs case had between 51-55%  chance of 
winning at court. The opinion was sent to panel  solicitors C to review  and comment  on. 
Ref: DRN08513162Unfortunately panel solicitors C didnt feel that the opinion  contained  enough detail for it to 
be able to decide whether  or not Acromas should  accept  the claim and so it again  asked 
Miss H to send it her bundles of information  to review. In the meantime Miss H continued to 
seek advice from the non-panel solicitors and barrister in regards to her complaint. 
When Miss H brought her complaint to this service the issue was whether or not Acromas 
should be held liable  to pay the legal fees Miss H incurred  while  Acromas was still trying to 
establish whether  or not her case was likely to be successful in court.  
In May 2019  one of our investigators  issued a very lengthy and detailed  view explaining why 
he didnt think Acromas  was liable for any of the legal expenses  Miss H had incurred up to 
that point. The crux of his findings  was that at Acromas never actually accepted  the claim 
and the issue  around the cases prospects of success  was never satisfactorily  settled. 
Miss H disagreed with his findings and responded by sending in additional information  for 
him to consider.  Our investigator then issued a second view in June 2019 after reviewing this 
information and again said he didnt think Acromas  were  liable  to pay Miss Hs legal fees and 
so the case remained  a non-uphold. Miss H then asked for an ombudsman  to review  her 
complaint and so the case has been  passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to be 
upholding Miss Hs complaint and Id like to explain why. 
As mentioned above Miss H has already received a very lengthy and detailed  response to 
her concerns  around how her case was handled by Acromas and its legal agents, and I dont 
intend on repeating that content  in this decision.  However Miss H has recently sent us a 
summary of her outstanding concerns and so I will attempt to address  those in this decision. 
Miss H has said that Acromas gave incorrect information to panel solicitors  B in relation to 
the opinion she had requested from the barrister  she had engaged privately.  Miss H believes 
that Acromas told panel solicitors B that she had the opinion  before she did and that when 
panel solicitors B didnt  get the report it told Acromas  that there was a conflict of interest  and 
could no longer represent Miss H. This is not the case. Looking at emails back and forth 
between Acromas and Miss H at the time I can see Miss H told Acromas that she was 
arranging for a barristers  report herself.  Panel solicitors B then realised that it had a conflict 
of interest in the case and excused itself.  There is no link between  the wait for the barristers 
report to arrive and the declaration of a conflict of interest.  Acromas did nothing  wrong in 
relation to the information it provided  to panel  solicitors B or how it communicated the conflict  
of interest to Miss H.
Miss H has relied heavily on wording from the policys terms and conditions  which  she 
believes shows she was entitled  to nominate  her own solicitors  and that Acromas should  be 
held liable  for the subsequent costs.  The wording  states:
You may appoint a representative to act on your behalf whenever  a conflict of interest  arises  
with a representative appointed by us
I agree  this wording is in the policys terms and conditions. However Miss H has taken this 
out of context. The first step that needed  to be met in order  for this right to begin, was that 
Ref: DRN08513163Acromas had to accept the claim as havng reasonable prospects of success at court. And at 
the point that panel  solicitors B excused  itself due to a conflict  of interest, the claim still 
hadnt been accepted.  So Miss H wasnt entitled,  at that moment in time, to appoint a 
non-panel solicitor  and expect Acromas to cover  the costs. That would only have happened 
after Acromas had accepted the claim and agreed an acceptable fee with the non-panel 
solicitors. 
Miss H has mentioned on a number  of occasions  that Acromas should  be liable for the 
£1,800 fee the barrister charged  her for providing  an opinion in March 2019. However, as 
has been explained to her previously, the cost of this was something she agreed  to pay 
before Acromas had accepted her claim.  The policys terms and conditions  state Acromas 
will not be liable for 
any legal  costs which you incur before we have accepted your claim;
So I cant say that Acromas should cover this cost for Miss H. 
Miss H has also referenced  an additional  fee of £500 (plus VAT) which she believes 
Acromas should be liable for. She has said that there is email  evidence to show  that 
Acromas agreed to pay this cost to her non-panel solicitors. 
Ive read all the emails  submitted by both Acromas and Miss H. And I can see that in 
April 2019 Miss H outlined  what her solicitors fees were and requested  that Acromas pay 
these. Acromas responded explaining that it wouldnt pay any legal costs associated with the 
claim until after the prospects of success had been completed.  It also provided a breakdown 
of the likely rates it would agree to if the claim was accepted. And these  rates were 
considerably lower than those quoted  by her private solicitor. Ive read these emails very 
carefully and I dont think that they show Acromas agreed to pay the non-panel solicitors 
fees. Instead I can see that Acromas clearly and repeatedly told Miss H that until her claim 
had been accepted, and rates  between Acromas and the non-panel solicitors agreed,  it 
would not be liable  for any of the legal costs  she incurred.  
Therefore having  reviewed everything  provided  by Miss H and Acromas,  I cant say that 
Acromas is liable to pay any of her outstanding legal fees. This is because  the fees Miss H is 
seeking restitution  for were all amassed before Acromas agree  to take on her claim. And in 
nearly every email the Acromas represesntatives sent to Miss H, she was warned repeatedly 
that it would  not cover  these costs for her. Therefore I think  Acromas  did enough to warn  
Miss H it wouldnt cover  the cost of these fees and so I wont  be asking  it to do any more in 
relation to them. 
Miss H has also complained about  how her claim was handled by panel solicitors  C. She has 
said that while she was out of the country caring for her mother who was ill panel solicitors C 
closed her case without  informing her. Ive read the emails that were sent between panel  
solicitors C and Miss H at this time. And I can see that it was waiting for Miss H to  provide 
the bundles relating to her case so it could  complete  a prospects assessment.  However as 
no information was forth coming panel  solicitors C contacted Miss H and Acromas  to say it 
was closing her claim as it couldnt be progressed at point in time. 
I appreciate this must have been  very stressful for Miss H, especially given she was out of 
the country and trying  to care for her mother,  but I dont think  panel solicitors C were  wrong  
to close her case at this time. It had tried to contact her, had had no response and couldnt 
progress her case any further. When Miss H returned and explained what had happened the 
Ref: DRN08513164claim was reopened  and panel solicitors C requested  the outstanding information  be sent to 
it. So I cant say it did anything wrong at this time, but I do understand why this wouldve 
caused Miss H some  frustration. 
Miss H also seems concerned that panel  solicitors  C refusal  to accept the barristers  report 
provided in April 2019 was the result of interference  from Acromas.  However looking  at the 
emails between the panel solicitors and Acromas at the time I can see that the request for 
additional information, ie Miss Hs bundles,  was because panel  solicitors C felt the report  
provided by the barrister  wasnt detailed enough  and so it wanted sight  of the information he 
had based his opinion on. This is not an unusual request and I dont think its likely that panel 
solicitors C wanted this information  because of anything Acromas  said, but rather because it 
needed to be satisfied in and of itself that the claim had reasonable prospects of success 
before advising  Acromas to accept  it. 
Miss H has told us that she was disadvantaged  by Acromas refusing to accept her claim 
sooner and as a result she submitted her claim form to the court, without  legal support in 
June 2019. Unfortunately  the claim form wasnt completed correctly  and as a result  the 
respondent moved to have the case dismissed. The judge allowed the case to continue  but 
Miss H became liable  for additional fees as a result  of the errors in the form. Acromas have 
provided evidence  to show that panel  solicitors C warned Miss H in May 2019  that is was 
unadvisable for her to submit these forms without legal advice and that she may accidently 
prejudice her own position.  So while I understand why Miss H wanted to progress her claim 
as quickly as possible, I dont think the errors  on her form were the result of a lack of care on 
the part of Acromas or panel solicitors C, and so I wont be asking it to cover  the costs  
relating to the mistakes Miss H made on the form when she submitted it. 
After the complaint was brought to us and a second  view was issued, Miss H provided  a 
second barristers report to Acromas in November 2019. Based on this report Arcomas 
agreed to accept the claim and paid some court fees. However  it has not paid any of the 
additional barristers  fees or solicitors fees Miss H has asked it to pay. This is because these 
fees were agreed  before  the claim was accepted and without a direct  agreement between 
the non-panel solicitors and the underwriter.  Again for the reasons set out above, as per the 
policys terms and conditions, Acromas  is not liable to pay these fees and I wont  be asking it 
to reimburse Miss H for any of the costs she has covered herself. 
I would like assure Miss H that I have  read through all of the evidence she has provided and 
understand that she feels she was entitled to appoint  her own legal representatives to act on 
her behalf  in her case. I dont disagree with her on this point. However  nearly all of the 
issues raised by Miss H can be traced back to the same point; Acromas was entitled to 
confirm the case  had reasonable prospects of success before  accepting the claim. That 
didnt happen  until November 2019.  The policy documents clearly state that any costs  
incurred by the insured before the claim is accepted will not be paid for by Acromas.  The 
only legal  fee Arcomas was liable to cover was the cost of the particulars of claim to be 
drafted as this wouldve  been a mandatory fee as soon as the claim was accepted. And 
Acromas has paid Miss H for this. The remaining legal  fees Miss H is asking Acromas to pay 
relate to events that took place before the claim was accepted. For that reason Acromas is 
not liable  for them and I will not be asking  it to do any more in relation to Miss Hs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint against Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Ref: DRN08513165Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0851316