K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that a course she enrolled her daughter on, using finance from Omni Capital 
Retail Finance Limited (Omni), was misrepresented  to her.
background
Ms H paid for her daughters Level  3 Diploma in Health and Social Care in July 2017. She 
paid for the course through a fixed sum loan provided by Omni. But she complains that her 
daughter was promised two free Continuing  Professional Development  (CPD)  courses to run 
alongside the diploma but wasnt offered them.  She also complains that the diploma was 
supposed to be coursework only but her daughter was later asked to complete 100 hours  of 
voluntary work and had to pay the costs of a Disclosure and Barring Service check herself. 
So she asked Omni to terminate her credit agreement and refund payments that had already 
been made towards it. The claim is made  under section 75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974) 
(section 75) as Ms H says Omni, as the provider of credit, are jointly  liable with the training  
provider.
Omni didnt  think they needed to take any additional  action so Ms H referred  her complaint to 
this service and our adjudicator provided her opinion.  She explained that for a section 75 
claim to be made there must be a relationship between the debtor (Ms Hs daughter  as she 
remains liable for the cost of the course), the creditor (Omni)  and the supplier of the training. 
But as Ms H was paying  for the finance  and not her daughter, the relationship  didnt exist 
and in those circumstances a section 75 claim could  not be made against the creditor.
But Ms H disagreed. She asked for a final decision by an ombudsman and she explained 
that the training provider was also regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and she 
wondered if the complaint should  be directed  to them instead?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators opinion  and I know that will disappoint Ms H. So please  let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with credit  as is 
the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. 
This section  of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, a finance 
provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation made  by the 
supplier. 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act (1974)
Ref: DRN04994382Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So section 75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
But for the creditor, Omni in this case,  to have that liability it needs to have a relationship 
with the supplier of the goods  through the debtor. And here that relationship  doesnt  exist as 
its Ms Hs daughter who is responsible for paying for the course, not Ms H.
So, Ms H cant  succeed  in a section 75 claim  to Omni about the misrepresentation of the 
course. 
Her daughters complaint may now be to the training  provider but thats not for consideration 
in this decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0499438