K820x#14complaint
In 2004, Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Monmouthshire Building Society (MBS). In 
2008, they re-mortgaged, again  with MBS. On both occasions, they also bought a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. They believe  that both policies were  mis-sold to them and 
have asked for a refund  of all the premiums they paid for the policies,  plus interest. 
Mr and Mrs A bought both policies  through a firm of independent financial advisers who 
acted as mortgage and insurance  brokers, but Monmouthshire Building  Society  (MBS) has 
taken responsibility  for handling this complaint .To keep  things simple, Ill therefore use the 
term MBS throughout this decision when discussing actions taken by all those involved in 
selling the polices to Mr and Mrs A. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
MBS had mis-sold the policies to Mr and Mrs A and didnt recommend that it should uphold  
their complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to review their case, 
so it has come to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do about  Mr and Mrs As case.  Ive considered everything that Mr and Mrs A and 
MBS have  sent us or told us about  the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain  
why. 
I dont know the precise  reason why Mr and Mrs A re-mortgaged in 2008,  but from what both 
they and MBS have  told us Im satisfied that the PPI policies were similar to each other and 
that on both occasions they bought  the insurance  during meetings with MBS. Im also 
satisfied that the two events were linked to each other, so I have dealt with them as the 
same case.  
Mr and Mrs A have  complained that on both occasions MBS led them  to believe that taking  
PPI was a requirement  of the mortgage.  MBS has denied this. It has told us that PPI was 
optional with both mortgages.
Its rather a long time since Mr and Mrs A took either mortgage and not surprisingly neither 
side has been able to find all the original paperwork. However, MBS has found  some of its 
records from 2008. It has told us that it carried out a fact find discussion with Mr and Mrs A 
to see if they wanted or needed PPI and other  types  of insurance. It has sent us a copy of a 
letter it wrote  to Mrs and Mrs A after the discussion, along with their insurance application 
form. I cant tell what  MBS said to Mr and Mrs A during the discussion, but the application 
form and letter seem to have made it clear that they didnt have to buy PPI to get their 
mortgage. Indeed, the letter explained why Mr and Mrs A had declined some of the other 
types of insurance  which MBS offered them at the same time. So Im satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs A could also have declined PPI. 
Ref: DRN00011712Unfortunately, MBS no longer has Mr and Mrs As personal paperwork from 2004.  However,  
it has sent us an example  of the type of mortgage  application form it says it was using at that 
time. 
The form gave customers the chance to buy PPI a section called Protecting your mortgage. 
It offered  three different  levels of cover,  and if customers wanted to go ahead it asked them 
to tick appropriate  boxes to show which level they wanted. It also had an equally prominent 
option which said If you do not want cover/are not eligible for covers  please read the 
following and sign.  Once again,  I dont  know what MBS said to Mr and Mrs A during their 
meeting, but I havent seen anything to make me think that it told them that they had to take 
PPI, when the form presented it as optional. 
I fully accept that Mr and Mrs A are doing their best to remember what happened  when they 
bought the policies, but from the evidence which MBS has sent us, I dont think it did 
anything to lead them to believe they had to take PPI. I think its more  likely that MBS  gave 
them a choice and that on both occasions they decided to take PPI.
 
MBS has told us that it recommended both policies  to Mr and Mrs A. Mr and Mrs A have told 
us that they cant  remember if MBS made  a recommendation or sold them  PPI on an 
information  only basis. If MBS did make recommendations, then it would have had to check  
that the policies were  right for Mr and Mrs As financial  situation and tell them about the 
policies features  fairly and clearly  so they could  decide whether  or not to buy them. So, in 
fairness to Mr and Mrs A, I have  assessed  their complaint on the basis that MBS  did 
recommend the policies  to them.
As I have so little information from the meetings, I cant tell what questions, if any, MBS 
asked Mr and Mrs A before it recommended the policies  to them.  So, Ive looked  into their 
circumstances on each  occasion and checked  the policies to see if it was reasonable for 
MBS to make its recommendations. 
From what  Mr and Mrs A have told us, they met the eligibility rules for the policies. They  also 
seem to have been able to afford  to pay the monthly premiums. And I havent seen anything  
to make me think that they would have  been caught out by any of the policies main 
limitations or exclusions if they had made  a claim.  
Mr and Mrs A have  told us that if they were off work  ill, their employer would have  paid them 
sick pay. They worked for the same  employer, and have also mentioned other workplace 
benefits, including a hardship  fund and some other types of insurance. I accept that these 
benefits would have been useful for Mr and Mrs A, but I dont think they meant  that Mr and 
Mrs A didnt have a potential need  for PPI. Both policies would have paid out over and above  
Mr and Mrs As workplace  benefits  and would  have lasted for longer than their sick pay. 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage and re-mortgage were large financial commitments for them, and 
not keeping up with their repayments could have had serious consequences. I think it was 
reasonable for MBS  to recommend the policies to Mr and Mrs A. 
I accept that MBS may not have explained  everything about PPI to Mr and Mrs A as clearly  
as it should have done. But, Im satisfied that they were eligible for the policies, that MBS  
gave them choices  on both occasions, that it was reasonable for MBS to recommend the 
policies to them, and that they could afford  the premiums. So I dont think  that clearer  
information about the policies would have stopped Mr and Mrs A from buying them. 
Ref: DRN00011713I dont think MBS mis-sold  PPI to Mr and Mrs A. 
Mr and Mrs A have  also told us that in 2008 they initially wanted  to re-mortgage with another  
lender, but MBS told them that they wouldnt be able to transfer the PPI policy,  and so they 
decided to re-mortgage with MBS. I have looked  at the policy  and I have not found any firm 
rules about  this. However, I dont know what MBS  said to Mr and Mrs A about transferring 
their policy,  and I dont think they have yet raised this issue with MBS directly.  It seems to 
me that it may be a separate topic from  Mr and Mrs As current  complaint that MBS mis-sold 
PPI to them and so I will not comment further  in this decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, Im not upholding  Mr and Mrs As complaint about 
Monmouthshire Building Society. Im not going  to tell it to give them any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0001171