K820x#14complaint
Mrs C, represented by her husband, Mr C, complains that Legal & General Assurance 
Society Limited wont reinstate her life insurance policy  when it lapsed  during a time she was 
suffering with ill health.
background
Mrs C had a decreasing term assurance  policy with Legal & General which she took out in 
2005. 
Her monthly  premiums were paid by direct  debit until September 2017, when the direct debit 
was returned to Legal & General as unpaid. It represented this payment  a further three  times 
but each time it was returned. So it cancelled the direct debit instruction and wrote  to Mrs C 
about the missed  payments. The policy then lapsed.  
In September  2018, Mr C asked for the policy to be reinstated. However, Mrs C had suffered 
health problems  which meant it could no longer offer the policy under the same terms. And, 
because of the number of premiums that had been missed, it wouldnt reinstate her cover.
Mrs Cs policy included a waiver of premium benefit  which meant  the premiums  would  
continue to be paid in the event she was unable to work because of illness  or accident after 
a deferred period of six months. But the information  from Mr C and Mrs Cs medical records  
indicated that she was still working when  the premiums stopped  being  paid.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He 
looked into why the direct debits had stopped being paid, and Mr C had explained this was 
caused through an issue when Mrs C changed her bank account.  But he said there wasnt  
anything to show that Mrs C had made Legal  & General aware  that she was experiencing 
such problems with her health.  He said it may have been able to take this into account  at the 
time, but he thought it acted reasonably in letting Mrs C know  about the missed premiums  
and then lapsing her policy  when it received no response. 
The investigator said Legal & General  had looked to see whether the waiver of premium  
benefit applied  for Mrs Cs situation, but her medical  records  showed she was still working 
when the policy lapsed so this wouldnt apply. Because  he thought Legal & General had 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions,  he didnt think  he should make  any 
recommendations for it to reinstate the policy.
On Mrs Cs behalf, Mr C didnt  accept  the investigators findings and asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed. He said Mrs C hadnt been well enough to call Legal  & General or make  
reasonable decisions, and he wasnt able to do this for her. Shed paid for the insurance for 
years and wouldve  sorted things out if shed not be unwell.  Although  shed told her doctor 
she was working through this time, she wasnt. She isnt now able to find a similar policy for 
the same  premium.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04686692Im sorry  to hear about  all the health  problems  Mrs C has suffered over the past few years.  I 
can appreciate that this has been a particularly difficult time for her, and that her priorities 
would understandably have been  with getting well again.
I can see that Mr C has told us that the initial  problems with the payment of the direct debit 
started when Mrs C changed her bank  account.  This meant  that Legal & General didnt  
receive the required monthly premiums to maintain her life cover.  
Legal & General attempted to collect the direct debit on four different occasions through 
September and October 2017,  but it was returned  as unpaid each time.  And it wrote  to 
Mrs C when this happened to let her know  what she could do to restart the payments.
Although I understand what Mr C has told us about  why she then didnt contact Legal & 
General through this time,  I dont think it was unreasonable for the policy to lapse when the 
premiums for it werent being met. And this is in accordance with the policy  terms and 
conditions. 
Its at Legal & Generals discretion whether to reinstate  a policy  in these circumstances, and 
its said this isnt now possible because  of the length  of time since  it lapsed and the number  
of missed payments,  but also because it isnt now able to offer Mrs C cover on the same  
terms because of her health  condition.
Mrs Cs policy included a waiver of premium benefit.  This meant that if Mrs C was 
incapacitated and unable to follow her normal occupation because of illness  or accident  
then, after a 26 week deferred period, Legal  & General would maintain the policy as if the 
premiums had been received. 
Mrs C didnt let Legal & General know that she was unwell or felt unable to deal with matters 
like the missed policy premiums. But it did look into whether it could consider a retrospective 
claim under this waiver  of premium benefit.  However  her medical  records  indicated that she 
had worked through this time. 
Mr C has sent us the opinion of Mrs Cs GP, which was that she wasnt well enough to work. 
However, this doesnt sufficiently demonstrate  that Mrs C wasnt working  through  this time.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Legal  & General has acted unfairly in its 
decision not to reinstate  Mrs Cs term assurance policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0468669