K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1999. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Ms W says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ms W has said that at no point was PPI mentioned  when she took out her card. But Ms Ws 
card application  form had a separate section  for the account cover and a box to sign if the 
cover was wanted. And I think FICL  added  the cover only after Ms W signed  in this box for it. 
With this in mind, I think its likely FICL  made it clear that Ms W didnt have to take the cover 
and she chose to take it. But I can understand why she might  not remember  this, given that 
she took out her card well over fifteen years ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms W so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms W got the information she needed  to decide if the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take the cover - so it looks to me like she wanted this type of 
cover at the time. And from what Ive seen of her circumstances,  Ms W wasnt affected by 
any of the likely exclusions to or limits  on the cover - so it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. From what  shes told us, Ms W was entitled to less than six months 
worth of sick pay or redundancy pay. And she didnt  have savings or anything  else to help 
with her card payments if she lost her job or was too sick to work.  Taking  everything  into 
account, I dont  think  better information  about the cover would have put Ms W off taking it. 
Ive taken into account all Ms Ws points but, for the reasons Ive given  and in the light of all 
Ive said above,  these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0735597