K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Experian Limited recorded  incorrect information on his credit file about 
balances on his credit  card.
To settle  matters hed like the correct dates for balances on his credit card to be recorded  on 
his credit file.
background
Mr O complained to Experian in late May 2018. He complained that the information itd 
recorded about his credit card balance was wrong. It was out of date by one month  and was 
£595 more than the balance outstanding  on his credit card.
Experian explained that the information it holds  about Mr Os accounts is passed to it from 
companies like banks,  credit card companies and utility companies.  It says that its the 
responsibility of the company that provides the information to Experian to ensure that its 
accurate. And it says it cant change any information in Mr Os credit file unless  it has the 
permission of the lender that provided the information to it.
Mr O remains  unhappy with Experians response  so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Os complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator concluded that Experian isnt responsible for the accuracy of the information 
provided. And she didnt  think itd acted unfairly. She thought the complaint should be 
brought against the lender.
Mr O is unhappy with the investigators  view. He says the date on which his credit file is 
shown as last updated doesnt  correspond  to his actual balances  on that date. So hes 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome  reached by our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. It follows that I will not be upholding this complaint.
Credit reference agencies, such as Experian, store and report information thats provided 
by businesses. Where a customer complains about information thats recorded on their 
credit file, the customer will usually have to complain to the lender  that provided the 
information, rather than the agency  that recorded  it.
Experian has explained that its unable  to amend any information  on Mr Os credit file 
without the permission of the lender that provided  the information.
Experian has also explained that when  a credit file refers to last updated,  this is the 
date of the monthly update it receives from a business and it isnt the date on which it 
receives the information from the lender or the date the information is loaded  onto a 
consumers credit report. As this information is provided to Experian  by lenders I cant  
say Experian has treated  Mr O unfairly  because it isnt responsible for the accuracy of 
the information provided by the lenders who report information to it.
Ref: DRN04163482my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0416348