K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that TSB Bank  plc opened  two accounts that she didnt agree to in 
November 2017.
background
Ms R says she applied to switch her account  to TSB in November 2017  but TSB refused her 
application as her account was in joint names.  She says in August 2018 she received two 
separate account statements from TSB. Ms R says she called TSB and during a 40 minute  
call was told she would receive compensation for what happened. She says she didnt 
receive any other correspondence from TSB and has now been  told she needs to attend a 
TSB branch to close  the accounts.
Ms R would like the accounts closed and compensation  for her time and for whats  
happened. She would also like the original cashback  offer that she says TSB was offering 
when the accounts were  opened.
TSB says Ms R made two applications for an account but it couldnt proceed with the switch  
as the account  being  transferred  was in joint names.  It says that information was contained 
on the website  application and it sent letters to Ms R about  that. TSB says it was able to 
proceed with opening  the two accounts and sent account opening  letters to Ms R. It says 
when Ms R opened the accounts she agreed to the account terms and conditions  but didnt 
qualify for the account switch incentive,  TSB says as its not made a mistake  then it isnt 
going to pay any compensation  or cover  Ms Rs call costs.
Ms R brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it and thought TSB had 
acted fairly.  The adjudicator thought  Ms R had applied for the account switch  twice and in 
doing so had applied for the TSB accounts  and that it didnt matter if the account switch  
failed. The adjudicator spoke to TSB and it agreed  that the accounts can be closed without 
Ms R attending a TSB branch. The adjudicator  didnt think  TSB had made a mistake by 
refusing to pay the switch incentive  as Ms R didnt meet the terms and conditions and didnt 
think TSB should remove details from its records of these accounts.
Ms R doesnt accept that view and says shes shocked and insulted by it. She says TSB 
failed to resolve her complaint within eight weeks and was told she would receive  
compensation. Ms R would like all of her details removed from TSBs  systems and 
compensation for her time. She would also like the switch incentive and says she should 
have been told to follow different steps  to obtain it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for similar  reasons. I realise that Ms R will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats  happened.
Ive looked at the switch incentive  terms and conditions as well as the process for obtaining 
it. Having done  so Im satisfied that the online process and the terms and conditions makes  
clear that a TSB account has to be opened first before the switch application is made. And 
there are separate rules  and requirements before the switch incentive is paid. Im also 
satisfied that Ms R made the two account  applications and then made the switch  
Ref: DRN05172502applications. So I dont  think  TSB made a mistake by opening  the two accounts in those 
circumstances and Im satisfied that TSB followed Ms Rs instructions.
I appreciate Ms R says that she didnt receive  any account opening information from TSB.  
And I accept  that Ms R no doubt assumed that as her switch  applications were unsuccessful 
then the accounts would not be opened or kept open. But for the reasons  Ive explained I 
dont think TSB made a mistake by opening the accounts or by keeping them open even if 
Ms R no longer wanted them.  And I dont think that TSB could reasonably have known  that 
Ms R assumed or thought  the accounts  would automatically close or would  not be opened  if 
the switch was unsuccessful.
Im satisfied that Ms R didnt meet the switch incentive terms and conditions. I can see that 
Ms R had opened two sole TSB accounts but was attempting a switch from a business  I will 
call S where she held a joint account. Im satisfied the incentive terms and conditions make  
clear that in those  circumstances a joint TSB account has to be opened first before  the 
switch application  is made. I find that Ms R made the switch  application before opening  a 
joint account and can see that S rejected the switch application. So I dont think TSB acted 
unfairly or made a mistake here and so I cant  fairly order  it to pay Ms R the switch incentive  
when Im satisfied she didnt meet the criteria.  
I appreciate Ms R says that TSB should have told her what to do in circumstances where 
she held a joint account. But Im satisfied the online process and terms and conditions make  
clear what  should  have been  done  namely  to open a TSB joint account before the switch 
application. And I also think that if Ms R wasnt sure about the process then she could have 
contacted TSB.
Overall Im satisfied Ms R opened the accounts  and wasnt entitled to the switch  incentive. 
So I cant fairly order that TSB pays Ms R the compensation she would like. Im satisfied that 
TSB has agreed to close the accounts and I dont think Ms R has suffered any financial loss 
as a result  of what took place in any event. I also cant fairly  order that TSB remove any 
information it may hold about Ms R from its records but can see in any event  Ms R intends  to 
complain to the Information Commissionaires Office about  that part of her complaint.
I can see from TSBs records  and the date of its final response letter that it was sent to Ms R 
in September  2018. I appreciate Ms R says she didnt receive it. But as TSB isnt 
responsible for the delivery  of the mail, then I cant hold it responsible  for Ms R not receiving 
it.
I realise Ms R is likely to disagree  with my decision.  But I think  that brings an end to what 
we, in trying  to resolve this complaint informally, can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0517250