K820x#14complaint
Mrs Q has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her claim under 
her home insurance policy after she suffered an escape of water due to damage to 
underground pitch fibre pipes.
background
Mrs Q discovered  an escape of water affecting  the cellar of her house  which  she had bought  
two years earlier. She contacted Ageas which agreed to appoint contractors to trace the 
source of the leak.
It was eventually established that the issue was in the drains. A drain survey was carried  out 
and this showed the underground pitch fibre pipes were damaged.  The company which  
carried out the survey  noted there  had been  some ground movement but concluded  that the 
problem was caused by the pitch fibre material itself.
Ageas declined the claim. It said the policy excluded cover for accidental  damage to 
underground pipes  if the damage was caused by natural failure or wear and tear.
Mrs Q was unhappy at Ageass  decision.  She noted  that pitch fibre pipes had an inherent  
flaw in their construction and that this defect was not known about  at the time of manufacture 
or installation. She considered it was unfair for Ageas to decline the claim on the basis the 
damage was caused by wear and tear given that it was really caused  by the inherent flaw in 
its construction.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that Ageas was entitled to decline the claim on the basis  of the exclusion for natural failure.
Mrs Q didnt accept the investigators  findings.  She pointed to information which she said 
was on our website and which suggested  that it may be unfair  for an insurer to decline a 
claim for damage to pitch fibre pipes if the failure had occurred following normal  usage  and 
was simply due to the inherent flaw in the structure.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states  that cover is provided for the following:
The cost of repairing Accidental damage  to the fabric of cables, underground  pipes  and 
drains (and their inspection covers) serving  your home and for which you are responsible
However, the policy states  that cover is not provided  for the following:
Natural failure, wear and tear of drains
Ref: DRN04468262As Mrs Q has pointed  out, pitch-fibre pipes,  which  used  to be used  widely,  are now known to 
suffer from an inherent flaw in their construction which  means they are susceptible  to 
delamination of their inner surface and prone to collapse. After carrying  out its survey, the 
drainage company appointed by Ageas  concluded that, while  there had been some  ground 
movement, the deformities and delamination in the piping was due to the pitch fibre material 
itself.
Im satisfied from the drainage companys report that the damage to the piping can be 
described as natural failure. I therefore  consider it was fair for Ageas to decline Mrs Qs 
claim. I appreciate that the natural  failure is due to the pitch fibre material  itself and that 
Mrs Q hadnt known  this type of material  had been used at the time she bought  the property. 
However, this doesnt mean that it is unfair for Ageas to apply the terms of its policy.
Mrs Q has drawn  attention to information which she says was on our website and which 
indicates that we consider it unfair for an insurer to exclude a claim following the premature 
failure of pitch fibre piping on the grounds  it is wear and tear.  However, Ageas hasnt 
excluded Mrs Qs claim on the grounds  of wear and tear but on the grounds of natural 
failure. There is a difference between these  terms and I therefore consider that the 
information which Mrs Q has provided isnt relevant to her case.
Mrs Q might argue that the exclusion for natural failure wasnt  highlighted at the time she 
took out the policy. However, even if I were  persuaded  that it should  have been  highlighted, 
this wouldnt make a difference to my decision. This is because  Mrs Q has acknowledged 
she was unaware  that she had pitch  fibre piping under her property.  I therefore  consider that 
even if shed been made aware of the exclusion she wouldnt have regarded it as significant 
and it would have  made no difference to her decision to take out the policy.
Finally, although  I consider that it was fair for Ageas to decline Mrs Qs claim for damage to 
the underground pipes, meaning that she will have to pay for the cost of repairs to these, she 
may nonetheless be able to make a claim under the policy for accidental  damage caused by 
the resulting escape of water.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0446826