K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about Santander  UK Plc allowing  him to open  a two year fixed rate bond 
without taking into consideration  that he had learning difficulties and how they then refused 
to allow  him to close the bond without incurring a penalty.
background
Mr M went into a branch of Santander to close his 2017 bond when it expired. He said he 
wanted to move his money but was coerced by the branch  employee  into opening another 
two year fixed bond.
He said that he felt he couldnt  take his money out and because of his learning difficulties, he 
didnt fully understand his commitment. Mr M said that he was usually accompanied by a social 
worker or family member  when  dealing  with things like this, but on this occasion he was on his 
own and he felt he was being taken advantage of. He said the branch  employee recommended 
and advised him to take the product,  and the bond was opened.  He said that Santander were 
aware of his learning difficulties because a note was made  on his account in 2014.
Some 17 months after opening the bond, Mr M went into the branch with his uncle. He asked 
for the account  to be closed. He said he could  have got a higher rate elsewhere. He also 
said that the account shouldnt have been opened  for him anyway as he had learning 
difficulties and couldnt make decisions relating to account opening by himself.  
When Santander said that the account  couldnt be closed, Mr M complained  to them.
Santander didnt  uphold his complaint. They said they dont give advice or recommendations 
and interviews are adapted  to the customers individual needs. They said they would always 
explain a product and consider a customers needs.  
Mr M would have accepted the terms and conditions and upon his request the bond would 
have been opened.
They said a bond certificate was sent to Mr M 2 weeks after the bond  was opened and Mr M 
didnt raise any problems  about the bond until he asked for it to be closed over a year later,  
and their records showed that he previously held a fixed rate bond  with them. They  referred 
Mr M to their terms and conditions which said that a bond can only be closed in exceptional  
circumstances. 
Mr M didnt  accept Santanders view and brought the complaint to this service. Mr M told our 
investigator that he had trouble making complicated  decisions and he needed time to digest 
information, especially  when it came to money  and figures. He said that the adviser  was 
talking very quickly at him and he didnt get to know everything that was being  said.
He said Santander  were aware  of his condition and he wanted  the bond  to be closed, all his 
money returned and letters of apology  from the Santander adviser  and the complaints 
handling manager. 
Ref: DRN08840112Because the bond matured whilst Mr Ms complaint was being  investigated,  Mr M also 
claimed compensation. He said he could have got a better rate elsewhere. He provided our 
investigator with information on some  of the rates which he says could have been 
achievable. The rates  he provided  did show a much higher  rate of interest and the minimum 
deposit amount  that he would have had to deposit with various financial institutions, and our 
investigator asked him to provide more  information,  so a fair comparison could be made.  
Our investigators findings said that Santander  were aware of Mr Ms disability  and should  
have adapted  their interactions in their dealings with him, particularly as their records  show  
that he may have some  difficulties in fully understanding the types  of accounts he can open. 
Our investigator recommended an appropriate  amount  of compensation to be £100 and said 
that Santander should be asked to make Mr Ms difficulties more  visible  on his account and 
adjust their interactions with him accordingly. 
Santander disagreed with the investigators  findings. They said they cant say exactly  what 
information was or wasnt registered on the account, or whether they had the customers 
consent to register  specific  information on the account. 
They referred our investigator to the Mental  Capacity  Act saying they cant always assume a 
customer had capacity  for some things  and not for others. They explained that they wouldnt 
always know how far a third party would be allowed to make decisions on behalf of a customer 
unless they had a customers authority to record such detailed information  on an alert.
Mr M disagrees with the level of compensation suggested by our investigator and says he 
would like total compensation in the region of £3,000. He says other  providers of fixed rate 
bonds would  have paid him more interest. He wants Santander to pay for the interest  lost on 
the money he invested with them. He had also asked for £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience he had suffered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I partially uphold  this 
complaint and I will explain why.
I take on board Santanders difficulties when assessing whether a customer needs a 
chaperone unless there is a specific alert on the account.   However, I have listened to the 
call where Santander  told our investigator  there  was a note from 2014 which showed Mr M 
had learning difficulties. Although no details of the type of difficulties were provided,  I think  
this is enough  of a trigger for them to have checked  their records and perhaps  they shouldnt  
have opened the bond straight away. I cant say whether Mr M would have come back  to the 
branch to open the bond. He already had two other accounts and a previous bond with them, 
so the likelihood is he may well have returned  to them  to open this bond.  
I think Santander could  have provided  Mr M with the information relating to the bond  and 
asked him to come back after he had time to digest  that information.
I think that Mr M did suffer some distress and inconvenience. I have  listened  to his call 
where he explained how his condition affected  him. He said that he found it difficult to digest 
information quickly and understand  complicated things.
Ref: DRN08840113He said the adviser  only went  through the information with him once making him feel 
overwhelmed. He felt he didnt fully get to know everything before he agreed  to open the bond. 
Im satisfied that he wouldnt have had a full understanding of what  was being  explained  to 
him and he would have needed time to make a decision.
For this reason, I think Santander  should pay Mr M the sum of £100, as this is fair and 
reasonable to award for the distress and inconvenience  he suffered.
I then need to think about the loss Mr M says hes incurred  as a result  of not investing his 
money with another provider. He says he would have got a much higher rate of interest, and 
he has sent in web links, but I cant see anywhere that his comparison is for a like for like 
investment. There may well be a higher rate of interest paid by an alternative  provider, but 
Im not persuaded that the examples hes given us did provide either higher rates over the 
same period  or were available in May 2017 when Mr M was looking to invest his money. 
Overall I am not persuaded that Mr M has lost out financially or that he would have done  
anything differently. And so it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Santander should pay 
anything towards the financial loss he says hes suffered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint. 
My decision  is that Santander  UK PLC should pay Mr M £100 if it already hasnt done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0884011