K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms G complain that because  Santander  UK Plc didnt warn them their two year 
preferential mortgage  rate deal was coming to an end, they had to pay a higher monthly 
mortgage payment  until they were able to arrange  a new interest rate product. 
background
In November 2014 Mr L and Ms G took out a repayment mortgage  with Santander for 
around £375,000 with an initial two year preferential interest rate product. 
In 2017 Mr L and Ms G arranged a new two year product  with Santander under which  the 
interest rate tracked against the Bank of England base rate until 7 February 2019. From then 
on interest was payable at Santanders standard variable rate.
Santander wrote to Mr L and Ms G on 7 February  2019 telling them  the preferential  rate had 
ended. Mr L and Ms G were able to move  to another preferential rate which took effect in 
March 2019. But they were unhappy they hadnt been given notice sooner as this meant 
they had to pay interest at a higher rate for a short time while  their application for a new 
product was processed.
Mr L and Ms G complained to Santander  but it didnt uphold their complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong  but Mr L and Ms G didnt accept his view so 
Ive reviewed everything afresh. For reasons Ill explain,  I agree  with our investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr L and Ms G feel very strongly  about  this matter. And theyve made some 
detailed arguments  in support of their complaint. In my decision I focus on what  I think  are 
the key issues  and I may not have set out all of the points  Mr L and Ms G have made. But I 
have considered and thought carefully  about everything theyve said.
As a starting point,  in line with Financial Conduct  Authority principles, Santander must 
communicate with its customers in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. Id expect Mr L 
and Ms G, as its customers, to read information Santander send them  by any reasonable 
method, including letters and on-line communications. And Mr L and Ms G have  a personal 
responsibility to manage their financial affairs  even  though, as theyve explained,  there have 
been some  personal  circumstances  that have made this difficult  for them recently.
The mortgage conversion offer letter Santander sent to Mr L and Ms G in January 2017 said,  
amongst other things:
The new mortgage  payment would be based on a variable rate which is 1.04% 
above the Bank of England official bank rate (its base rate),  currently  0.25% until 
07/02/2019, to give a current  rate payable  of 1.29%.
After 07/02/2019, interest will be charged at Santanders standard variable rate, 
currently 4.49% for the remaining term of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN0805777224 payments at the variable interest  rate currently  1.29% [of] £1,218.18
Followed by 334 payments  at a variable interest  rate currently 4.49% [of] £1,793.73
I think the offer letter set out clearly the preferential rate  1.29% at the time of the offer - 
would only apply until 7 February 2019. It explained clearly interest would be charged  at 
Santanders variable  rate after that. Mr L and Ms G confirmed theyd read and understood  
the terms and conditions of the offer. I think they wouldve understood the position at the 
time Santander made the offer to them. And I think its reasonable to expect theyd have 
made a note to review  things in good time before the product came  to an end so they could 
decide what to do when it did.
Santander has sent Mr L and Ms G regular annual mortgage statements with explanatory  
notes. The statements as at December 2017  and December 2018 clearly  set out the current 
interest rate and feature end date as being 7 February 2019.  The explanatory notes 
clarified the feature  end date meant the date on which Mr L and Mr Gs interest  rate 
product would end. They  also explained  a tracker mortgage like Mr L and Ms Gs was for a 
limited time and it was possible to apply for a new product up to four months  before the 
existing product came to an end.
I think the information about when  the product would end in both the statements and the 
explanatory notes was set out in a way thats clear,  fair and not misleading. 
Mr L and Ms Gs latest mortgage  statement was dated 31 December 2018. Theyve said 
they didnt read it. But, as Ive said, I think its reasonable  for Santander to expect they 
would. If they had read it, I think Mr L and Ms G wouldve  been  reminded and clearly 
understood their product would  come  to an end in February 2019.  And they wouldve had 
plenty of time to apply  for a new product before it did. It would be unfair to hold Santander 
responsible for Mr L and Mr Gs failure to read the information Santander had given them  in 
a format which I think was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr L and Ms G think Santander shouldve sent them separate reminders their product was 
coming to an end. There was no regulatory or contractual requirement for them to do this. 
Theres no evidence Santander was treating Mr M and Ms G differently to its other 
customers. And just because other  lenders or providers of other services may send reminder  
letters to their customers in similar circumstances, doesnt mean Santanders behaved  
unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr L and Ms G in the circumstances  of their complaint by 
not sending separate reminder  letters to them.
 
I think the information Santander  sent Mr L and Ms G was sufficiently clear to warn them 
their product  was ending  soon.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold Mr L and Ms Gs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr L and Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 September 2019.
Ref: DRN08057773Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0805777