K820x#14Complaint
Miss G complains  that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as MotoNovo  Finance  MotoNovo) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
Background
Miss G entered into a HPA with MotoNovo in 2016  to acquire a used car. She says that 
when she got the car there  was an oil warning  light flashing so she contacted the dealer and 
was told to keep  the oil topped up. Miss G says that she has been  putting about two litres  of 
oil into the car each month and she drives a maximum  of 1,000 miles each month.  She says 
the dealer said this was a usual amount of oil but she has since been told this isnt normal.
In January 2019, Miss G says the electronic power  control (EPC) warning light came  on and 
on further investigation it was found  that the injectors had blown. Miss G thinks  this was 
linked to the oil issue.
As well as the oil issue, Miss G says there were other faults with the car at the point of 
supply, specifically with the air conditioning (which resulted  in her needing to be recovered 
and to pay for a repair)  and the passenger seat rails.
Miss G says MotoNovo asked her to provide an independent report  but when she enquired  
about she was told that given the time that had passed it wouldnt be able to trace  the issues  
back to the point of supply.
MotoNovo says that Miss G took possession of the car in October  2016  and the issues were 
only raised with it in February  2019. Given the length of time Miss G had had the car it says 
she needed to provide  evidence such as an independent engineers report to show  the 
issues were present at the point of supply.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that as the car was not new at the point 
of acquisition and so some wear  and tear would be expected. He noted Miss Gs comment 
that the oil warning light was on at acquisition and that she had been keeping the oil topped 
up on advice from the dealer  but said that he had been unable  to find any further evidence of 
this. 
In regard to the issue  raised in February  2019, our adjudicator thought  given the time that 
had passed and miles that had been covered since acquisition, it was reasonable that 
MotoNovo asked for an inspection to show that this issue  was present or developing at the 
point of supply.  
Miss G responded to our investigators  view saying that she would try to find more evidence 
to show the issues  she had experienced.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G acquired a car through a HPA. Under  the regulations, specifically the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA),  MotoNovo can be held liable if the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
Ref: DRN08206412at the point of supply.  Satisfactory quality takes  into account  factors  such as the mileage and 
age of the car. In this case,  at acquisition, the car was just under four years old and had 
been driven around 80,000 miles.
Miss G has raised concerns about  a number of issues  that she says were present  at the 
point of supply.  I have not seen any evidence in regard to the issue  she has noted  with the 
air conditioning or the passenger seat rails. Given the age and mileage  of the car at 
acquisition I would expect  that there would be some wear and tear. Without further 
information to show these issues were due to faults present at the point of supply rather  than 
wear and tear issues I do not find I can uphold this part of Miss Gs complaint.
The main  issue Miss G has raised  relates to the oil. She says the oil light was on when the 
car was supplied and that she was told to keep topping  the oil up. She says she was topping  
up with two litres of oil every month. Unfortunately I do not have any further evidence 
regarding this issue and although I note Miss G was going to try to find further details, I 
havent seen this. Without any further  information I do not find I have enough to say there 
was an issue that meant  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss G then experienced  further issues in January 2019 when the EPC light came on and 
further investigation found the fuel injectors had blown.  I note Miss Gs concern that this 
issue is linked to the oil issue she has experienced from the outset. However, as Miss G had 
the car for more than two years before this issue arose and the car passed an MOT in 
January 2019  with a mileage of around  119,000,  I do not find I can say, without further 
evidence, that the issue  with the injectors was present or developing at the point of supply.
MotoNovo suggested  that Miss G get an independent inspection  report.  I find this 
reasonable. However I note Miss Gs comments about the information she received when 
she enquired about  this. Without further evidence to show  that the issues with the car are 
due to faults that were present or developing at the point of supply  I do not find I can uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0820641