K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the way in which U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with 
their claim under  their travel insurance  policy. 
My references to UKI include its agents. 
background
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision,  which  forms part of my 
final decision. I said that I intended to partly uphold it and here is an extract  from that 
decision:
In April 2017 Mr and Mrs B were  on a long haul trip abroad when Mr B collapsed and 
became seriously  ill. The doctors were very concerned about his condition and so his 
children flew out to see him. After an extended  stay in the intensive care unit Mr B recovered 
enough to be discharged  from hospital  in September 2017.  He and Mrs B stayed with 
another of their children until he was well enough  to return to the UK in early November 
2017. Mr Bs illness was severe  enough  that hes since been  registered  as being disabled.  
Mrs B is his carer. 
Mrs B told UKI about Mr Bs illness when they were abroad.  When  they returned home they 
submitted a claim for more than £25,000.  UKI didnt  pay the claim for many months and 
Mrs B had to complain about the delay and lack of updates. When UKI made  partial claim 
payments these were  for different amounts but didnt include any breakdown,  so Mrs B had 
to make more calls to UKI. Mrs B raised  a number of queries about the payments it had 
made. 
UKI accepted undue delay of seven months in the claim payment. It said sorry for this and 
paid £350 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience this had caused Mr and Mrs B. It 
sent the breakdown after the payments were made, and explained why it hadnt paid some 
parts of the claim. Mrs B said that still UKI hadnt  responded to all aspects of her claim.  UKI 
then said it wouldnt pay various  amounts including personal accident  benefit because Mr B 
had had an illness rather than an accident. It did offer to pay the £500 benefit for a 
recuperative holiday when  it was booked.  
Mr and Mrs B asked  us to look into their complaint about UKIs handling of the claim and the 
exchange rate it had used. Our adjudicator asked UKI to pay for certain items and to pay the 
credit card exchange rate. She explained  that except for these issues  she thought UKIs 
claim settlement and compensation payment was fair. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree so the 
complaints come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Bs serious  illness and the very difficult  circumstances  that led to 
this claim.  
Ref: DRN07380262Im likely partly to uphold this complaint and Ill set out below  what  I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable settlement. Ill explain why and in doing so Ill focus on what  I see as the central  
issues.
Mr and Mrs Bs childrens flights
Mr and Mrs Bs two children in the UK understandably flew out to Mr B, given his condition 
was grave.  Mr and Mrs B claimed for their childrens return flights. I see why they made this 
claim but I think UKI fairly  declined it. 
Our adjudicator has correctly explained  the approach and she also sent Mr and Mrs B a 
copy of the policy.  Section  E covers  medical  and emergency costs whilst they were on their 
journey. Mr B needed emergency medical  and hospital treatment whilst on the journey. 
Under Part  One: Emergency Medical  Expenses Abroad 4 he was entitled to claim for up to 
£2,000 towards  the cost of a friend  or relative, resident in the UK to be brought to, remain  
with or escort you [Mr B] back to the UK on the advice of our [UKIs] medical adviser.
Mrs B is Mr Bs relative, using the ordinary meaning of the word  relative  which isnt defined  
in the policy. Shes  resident in the UK. She remained  with Mr B and UKI paid £2,000  towards 
her costs in remaining with Mr B. I understand  UKI also paid for Mrs Bs return flight  to the 
UK as of course they missed their original return journey  because  of Mr Bs illness. Under  
Section E: Part One 1 UKI paid for Mr Bs additional travel expenses  needed  to return him 
to the UK (repatriation); that is, the costs to fly him back to the UK. 
I appreciate Mrs B was also insured under the policy. But the main claim was for Mr Bs 
illness. As UKI paid her costs to remain with Mr B and travel  back  with him to the UK this 
means the additional flights for Mr and Mrs Bs children to fly out to them  werent covered 
under the policy.  I do appreciate the grave  situation at the time but I dont think  I can fairly 
say UKI must pay those additional costs. 
personal accident
Under Section B  Personal Accident UKI would pay a lump  sum if during a journey, you 
sustain bodily injury  which shall solely and independently of any other cause, result within 
24 months in your Total Permanent Disablement. 
Personal Accident is defined in the policy as Accidental, bodily injury caused solely and 
directly by outward  violent  and visible means. Total Permanent  Disablement is defined  as 
A disability that prevents  you from doing  any work of any kind for 104 weeks  and at the end 
of this period there is no reasonable hope  of improvement. An exclusion under the Personal 
Accident section says that UKI will not pay any claim which  arises  from or is in connection 
with: 1. Any sickness or disease, naturally occurring or degenerative condition.
Mrs B explains that Mr B collapsed and fell seriously ill. He suffered multiple organ failure 
and many life changing  procedures. Ive read what she says and can only imagine how 
distressing this must have been for Mr B and all the family.
Theres no dispute that Mr B is disabled.  But I think UKI was correct when it said there  was 
no cover  under the Personal Accident section of the policy.  His disability  is due to an illness 
rather than a personal accident,  as defined in the policy. I appreciate  Mr Bs case was 
medically very unusual  as Mrs B has described, and of medical interest. But I dont think 
I can fairly say that UKI must pay the personal  accident benefit.
Ref: DRN07380263The essential four wheel  walker
Mr and Mrs B say they sent UKI the receipted  amount  for the essential  four wheel walker but 
this was ignored and so wasnt paid.  The receipt was listed  in their original claim.
I think UKI should have  paid this expense, and it has since acknowledged this. UKI has said 
it will now pay this expense together with 8% simple interest from the date of claim to the 
date of settlement.  If UKI hasnt already made this payment Mr and Mrs B should let me 
know. 
The toilet aid
UKI said it couldnt have  paid the cost of hiring the toilet aid earlier  as it didnt  have evidence  
that Mrs B had paid to hire this aid. So it said it would pay this amount, on receipt of proof of 
its hire, but not interest on this amount. 
Given the amount  claimed and the circumstances of Mr Bs illness  and disability I think UKI 
could fairly  taken a pragmatic approach  and paid this amount even without a receipt. Strictly 
speaking UKI is entitled to ask for a receipt for every item of claim. But Mrs B seems  to have 
provided a very detailed  claim, backed  up with receipts for the majority of the claim in 254 
pages of expenses. So in all the circumstances here I think its fair for UKI to pay for the 
toilet add and pay 8% interest for this item from the date of claim  to the date of settlement, 
as it could have  identified that it needed a receipt much earlier than it did. 
other items of claim
Mrs B claimed for various items she had to purchase abroad including food and clothing as 
well as other expenditure. She also claimed for the additional costs she and Mr B have 
incurred back in the UK. Apart from the elements  Ive described in this decision I think UKI 
assessed the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. Unfortunately theres no cover  for 
the expenses  they incurred and claimed  for in the UK. So I dont require it to make any 
further payments  to Mr and Mrs B other than the payments Ive set out in this decision.
the policy excesses
UKI deducted excesses  for four separate claims under the policy  as follows:
Claim one  medical expenses abroad/hospital benefit/curtailment  due to Mr Bs 
illness. UKI deducted £100 being £50 each for Mr B and Mrs B.
Claim two  a different  holiday was cancelled due to Mr Bs illness  UKI deducted 
£100 being £50 each  for Mr B and Mrs B.
Claim three  baggage claim when Mrs B lost her reading glasses  UKI deducted 
£50 being the excess for Mrs Bs claim.
Claim four  medication for Mrs Bs medical expenses when she had to extend her 
trip to remain with Mr B - £50 deducted  for Mrs B. 
The policy says that UKI can deduct an excess from the claim per insured person claiming, 
per claim registered. Where a single  incident  gives rise to a claim under two or more  
sections of cover only one excess will be payable  per insured person. UKI doesnt define the 
word incident so Ill give it the ordinary, every  day meaning  being  an instance of 
something happening; an event or occurrence.
Ref: DRN07380264In my view, only one incident caused  claims one, two and four as listed  above. The incident 
was Mr Bs serious illness. This led to claim one directly, but it also meant Mr and Mrs B had 
to cancel another pre-booked holiday. Additionally, Mr Bs illness meant  Mrs B had to extend  
her trip to remain with him. This means I think UKI can fairly deduct only one excess  per 
person for claims one, two and four  being  a total of £100. In fact it deducted £250. So 
I think UKI should pay Mr and Mrs B the difference of £150,  plus 8% simple  interest  as set 
out below. 
Claim three  was due to a separate incident   the loss of reading glasses. This wasnt  directly 
linked to Mr Bs illness so the £50 excess should  apply for that claim. 
exchange rate and interest calculations
Mr and Mrs B say that despite  numerous complaints to UKI regarding exchange rates  and 
calculations no response was received. 
As our adjudicator has said it would have been helpful if UKI had provided a breakdown of 
the claim payment  at the time it paid Mr and Mrs B. It did send the breakdown within a few 
weeks of making payment  for the parts of the claim it said were covered. But it didnt explain 
how it had arrived at the exchange rate it used  to make the payment even though  Mrs B 
explained the rate shed paid on her credit card was higher than the rate paid by UKI. As the 
credit card was issued by the building society to which the account was linked this caused 
Mrs B additional frustration and concern.
Our adjudicator has properly asked UKI to review Mr and Mrs Bs credit  card statements and 
make payments based on the exchange  rate charged by their lender. I think  thats  fair, and 
I think it should also add 8% simple interest  to any difference in calculation.  I also think  its 
fair for UKI to pay interest  at the credit card rate of interest  if Mr and Mrs B were unable  to 
repay their credit card bills by the due date,  as set out at the end of this provisional decision. 
I invite Mr and Mrs B to let me know  whether  they did incur additional interest  charges, in 
response to this email.  
Subject to Mr and Mrs Bs response on whether they paid credit  card interest, and the other 
interest awards that Ive recommended, I think UKI should pay 8% simple interest on the 
eligible elements of the claim. This is because the delay in it paying the claim meant that Mr 
and Mrs B were out of pocket for a lot longer than they should have been. It should pay 
interest at the simple  rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date it settled the 
various elements  of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
compensation
UKI accepted that its service to Mr and Mrs B had been very poor and it apologised to them.  
It failed to keep  Mr and Mrs B updated and its claim payment was delayed by many  months  
after Mrs B had sent it all the information it required in support of their claim. It paid £350  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs B. They say its 
overall offer is unacceptable taking into account its obstructive and delaying procedures.
I think UKI was right to apologise to Mr and Mrs B and to pay compensation. I currently dont 
think £350 goes  far enough. Im minded to require it to pay them  a further  £150  (£500 in 
total) for distress and inconvenience.  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN07380265Im not able to make  punitive awards because a business has done something wrong. But in 
assessing the evidence and in deciding whats fair and reasonable I consider the impact  of a 
business poor service on the consumers.  
In this case, UKI was aware  that Mr Bs illness while abroad  left him disabled  and that Mrs B 
is his carer. Despite  this she put together  the claim including over 250 pages of supporting  
documents, claiming over £25,000.  
I can see its likely the claim would take slightly longer to assess  than a straightforward,  
single issue claim. But by its own admission UKI failed to deal with the claim within a 
reasonable time. I dont think that UKI recognised the stress caused by its failure  to deal with 
the claim promptly. It knew  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and it shouldnt have been  
necessary for Mrs B to have to spend time calling UKI to find out what  was happening, and 
then to make  further enquiries about why UKI had paid the amounts it did and hadnt  paid 
part of the claim. The claim was for a large amount of money and Mr and Mrs B were  out of 
pocket while  waiting for their claim to be assessed. 
I assess that a total award of £500  compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Both Mr and Mrs B and UKI have sent me comments  explaining why they dont agree with all 
the aspects of my proposed settlement. Ill refer to those comments  below.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that the settlement  I set out in my provisional decision is a fair one for 
the reasons set out in that decision and here. Ill focus on the main points raised by both 
parties.
Mr and Mrs B queried why theyd not been paid for the outward journey. But they would 
always have incurred the cost of their outward flights even if the holiday had gone  smoothly.  
Its not a cost that is covered by their policy (or any travel insurance  policy  that Im aware  of).
The relatives costs  werent covered because Mrs B was with Mr B and UKI paid the benefits 
under the policy  for her to remain  with him, rather than her returning home on their original 
return flight. Mr and Mrs B dont think UKI has made  a realistic allowance for their extended 
stay abroad, given  the additional premium they paid for the trip. But apart from the elements 
set out in this decision  I think  UKI did pay them the policy  benefits.  Mr and Mrs B point out 
that they paid an additional premium, but this was to give them the travel insurance cover  
that they received to include any existing medical conditions  and their long haul trip 
destination. 
Linked to this point Mr and Mrs B question why UKIs promised assistance wasnt  available  
after they returned to the UK and the doctor and nurse who escorted them on the journey left 
them. The policy cover  ends when  they return to their home  address as this is the end of 
their trip. 
Mr and Mrs B say it would  be better  if UKI had paid them £20 for each trip for taxi fares, 
rather than the unrealistic amount it paid. The policy cover was £20 a day. UKI looked at 
the actual costs incurred, and then applied the £20 a day limit. Mr and Mrs B think the policy  
Ref: DRN07380266cover isnt realistic, but I cant  fairly make UKI pay more than the amount  set out in its policy 
for taxi fares.
Mr and Mrs B feel they are being penalised for submitting the claim when they did, and were 
told theyd have a year to submit the claim. They think  they should  be compensated for poor 
advice. I see the point they are making but I dont think UKI should have put pressure on 
Mr and Mrs B to submit their claim earlier, not least given their circumstances. It was entitled 
to ask for evidence to support the claim and this isnt unreasonable.  So I dont award them  
any additional compensation.  
I understand Mr and Mrs B have  questions about the way in which their current account 
provider sold the product  (a packaged bank account, including travel insurance). They feel it 
was mis-sold and question any commission paid. Im afraid  I cant  decide this new issue 
against UKI. They will have to raise this with their bank account  provider  first, and if theyre 
not happy they can refer that separate complaint to us as a new issue. If they need any 
further information about how to do this they can contact our investigator.  
Both Mr and Mrs B and UKI have made some additional points about my findings on the 
following aspects of their claim:
Mrs Bs costs for remaining with Mr B.
Mr and Mrs B say that UKI didnt pay £2,000 towards her remaining with Mr B but did pay for 
them both to return to the UK (repatriation). As I understand it Mrs B stayed with a family  
member while Mr B was in hospital  and following his discharge. But UKI decided it would be 
fair to pay the policy benefit of £2,000 towards  her costs for remaining with him and this is 
set out on page 13 of its claim  settlement  breakdown.  Mr and Mrs B will see that UKI paid 
£3,000 being £2,000 towards the accommodation and £1,000  for Mr Bs hospital  benefit. 
Both amounts were the policy limit so I dont require UKI to pay any more. 
the essential four wheel  walker
Mr and Mrs B say this amount has still not been  paid even  though they sent the receipt to 
UKI with their original  claim. UKI must  now pay for this walker, together  with interest as set 
out below. 
the toilet aid
Mr and Mrs B say the payment is still outstanding and proof  of hire was sent to UKI with the 
original claim. 
UKI says it shouldnt have  to make payment for this item or interest  on it as it didnt receive a 
receipt. I dont think this is a fair approach, for the reasons Ive already given. Mr and Mrs B 
have already sent detailed information  to support their claim and, even if UKI didnt receive a 
receipt it should have  asked  for this in a timely way. It should pay this part of the claim with 
interest for the reasons  Ive already explained. 
Ref: DRN07380267other items of claim
Ive considered the items mentioned by Mr and Mrs B. But I dont think  UKI has to pay for the 
additional clothes  and shoes, although I appreciate  they were necessary to fit medical aids.  
It was an extra expense  for them but not one which was covered under the policy  terms. 
the policy excesses
Mr and Mrs B agree  with my findings of deducting only one excess per person for claims 
one, two and four. They say the relevant internet page isnt now available  on their bank 
account providers  website. 
UKI doesnt agree with my findings on this point.  It says claim two was a completely 
separate holiday and so is a separate claim.  It accepts  the reason for the claim was one 
illness but it shouldnt  have to apply only one excess  (per person) using the example of 
where a consumer had five separate holidays and questioning whether one excess would 
then be fair.
I think in this specific case its fair for one excess per person to apply for claims one, two and 
four. The incident was Mr Bs illness, which meant more than one claim was made  under 
two or more sections of the policy. I see UKIs point but Im looking at this individual  case  
and deducting  so many  excesses  for one incident  doesnt seem to me to be fair. 
exchange rate and interest calculations
Mr and Mrs B say theyve constantly disputed  the exchange rates  and havent had any 
satisfactory explanation.  The rates affect  taxi fares to medical costs and prescriptions. They 
offer to provide all the credit  card statements if required. They  say they didnt  incur  additional 
interest charges  having paid the bills from savings,  pension funds and ISAs. But they did 
lose some  income interest.  So I think its fair that the 8% simple  interest  rate applies.
The policy limits will still apply to the claim payment; so for example if taxi fares  exceeded 
£20 even when  converted at the correct rate then Mr and Mrs B wont receive any additional 
amount. 
UKI accepts  the delay  in paying  the credit card amounts but doesnt understand why it 
should pay interest on top of this. But Mr and Mrs B have now confirmed they were  able to 
repay the credit cards at the time the payments were  due. So UKI must pay interest at 8% 
simple as set out below.  
For the reasons  Ive already given  its fair for UKI to use the exchange rates that Mr and 
Mrs B actually paid. If this results in a shortfall  then theyre out of pocket by that amount. So 
this means its fair for UKI to pay them any shortfall  together with 8% simple  interest.  
compensation
Mr and Mrs B comment that they were  extremely disappointed with the treatment  they 
received from UKI (and their bank  account  provider) and its lack of compassion for Mr Bs 
unique and unexpected illness. 
Ref: DRN07380268For the reasons  Ive given I remain of the view that a total amount of £500 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is fair. This means  UKI must pay Mr and Mrs B an additional 
£150 compensation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I partly 
uphold this complaint.  I require  U K Insurance Limited to pay to Mr and Mrs B:
The amounts  claimed for the four wheeled  walker  and over the toilet aid purchased  
and hired abroad (where UKI hasnt already made the payment); and
£150 being the difference  in the excesses  deducted  of £250 and the excesses I think  
UKI should have  deducted, together with interest* at the simple rate of 8% per year 
from the date UKI deducted the excesses  to the date of settlement; and 
The difference between the exchange rates it used and the exchange rates  charged  
by their credit card provider.  UKI must also add interest* at the simple rate of 8% per 
year to any shortfall in calculation from the date of claim  to the date of settlement; 
and 
Interest* on the eligible elements  of the claim (including the four wheeled walker  and 
over the toilet aid purchased and hired  abroad)  at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date of claim to the date UKI paid the various  eligible elements of the claim.  
An additional £150 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
UKI must pay the total compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs B accept my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest*  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs B a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0738026