K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited caused delays when he 
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy and that it still hasnt made  a decision on it. 
background
Mr P told Southern Rock  his car was stolen  in July 2017 and was then damaged in an 
accident. Mr P said he was arrested by the police, who carried  out their enquiries  and then 
closed the case  against him. He said the police told him that Southern  Rock  asked  them to 
re-open their investigation.  Mr P also said Southern  Rock hadnt  contacted him enough. He 
said there was no reason  for it not to pay his claim. He thought it should also pay him for 
loss of earnings, as hed lost his job as a result of not being able to drive.  And he wanted 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hed faced.  
Southern Rock said the police told it in September 2017 that they thought Mr P was driving 
at the time of the accident.  Southern  Rock  chased the police for their report. It told Mr P in 
November 2017  it was still waiting for the report. Around the same time,  the police asked 
Southern Rock for a statement they needed to progress their case.  Southern Rock provided  
it in June 2018. It told Mr P in June 2018  and again  in July 2018  that it knew  charges may be 
brought against him about the incident in July 2017. It said as the matter was now being 
considered by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) it couldnt yet deal with the claim. 
Southern Rock wanted to wait until it knew whether Mr P would be charged. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ps complaint in August 2018. The police told her 
their initial decision to close the case was taken only because Southern Rock had not at that 
point given them some  details they needed from it. When  the details were  provided, the 
police investigation  restarted. The investigator  thought Southern Rock had good reason to 
delay its decision,  pending decisions from the police and the CPS.
Mr P said Southern Rock  had delayed the whole process deliberately, by not providing 
information to the police within a reasonable time.  He said that was so it wouldnt have to 
pay his claim. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
I think it was reasonable  for Southern Rock to delay making a decision on Mr Ps claim until 
it knew whether or not he was going  to be charged. The police  said from the start that they 
thought Mr P was driving the car at the time of the accident. So I think the outcome of the 
police investigation   and the CPS decision on whether to prosecute  Mr P  were crucial 
pieces of information for Southern Rock  to take into account. Almost from the outset, it was 
faced with details  that pointed potentially  to Mr P having made a fraudulent claim. I dont 
think its reasonable to expect an insurer  to settle a claim in these  circumstances.   
The file notes show that after the police  asked Southern Rock for a statement they needed, 
Southern Rock asked for a template for the statement. It looks  as though that wasnt 
followed up until March 2018.  At that point, the police asked for the statement again. 
Southern Rock said it was waiting for a copy of a call before it could supply the statement. 
Ref: DRN09442242The police asked  again for the statement in May 2018. Southern Rock was still waiting for 
the call recording.  It gave the police  its statement in June 2018.
We asked Southern Rock to explain  the delay. It said part of it was due to its IT department  
having difficulty in retrieving the call. It said it wasnt able to explain further, as the managers  
who had dealt with the matter had left the business. But from July 2018 onwards, the police 
and the CPS were  liaising about  the incident.  Southern Rock has told us the CPS has 
notified it that Mr P has now been charged  with perverting the course  of justice  and awaits  a 
pre-trial court hearing in April 2019.
I dont think theres any evidence that Southern  Rock deliberately  delayed  matters so it 
wouldnt have to pay the claim, as Mr P has suggested. As the police had told Southern 
Rock in September 2017 that they thought Mr Ps account of events was wrong, the validity 
of his claim was in doubt from then on. I think Southern  Rock  could probably have acted 
more quickly than it did. But if it had retrieved the call and provided  its statement earlier, it 
would still have taken  several months for the police and the CPS to make  a decision. I think 
the only difference would  have been that Mr P would  have been charged  earlier.  
We usually award compensation when an insurer has caused undue  delay or provided poor 
service and we think a consumer suffered as a result. I think  Southern Rock could have 
communicated more  with Mr P, but for much  of the time it seems  there was no progress to 
report. I dont think  Southern  Rock  has given us a full explanation for the time it took to 
provide a statement for the police. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr P was 
disadvantaged by the delay.   
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
my decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
  
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0944224