K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1995. Mr G paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered him in case  he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.  
Ive decided that Mr Gs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The mortgage application had a section for PPI. It asked if Mr G wanted the cover,  and there 
were two tick boxes to choose from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. Both boxes 
were equally  prominent. The box to buy PPI was ticked, it was clarified below that it was to 
cover Mr G only and that he was eligible for it, and Mr G signed the application.  Then the 
mortgage offer listed PPI as an additional  product and set out its cost as distinct  from the 
mortgage payments.  Overall, I think that Lloyds made  Mr G aware he had a choice  about  
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check it was right for him. And based  on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr G doesnt 
seem to have affected by any of the policys main  exclusions  or limitations. He did have  
some sick pay, but the PPI covered him for at least twice  as long and paid out on top, and it 
doesnt look like Mr G had any other protection in case he lost his job. Its worth bearing in 
mind that this mortgage was Mr Gs sole responsibility, and if he fell behind  on his payments 
he risked losing his home.  So the PPI couldve really been useful for him in protecting his 
home and giving some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr G about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. Here, Mr G chose  to buy PPI, so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  And as 
I explained above, he doesnt seem  to have been  affected by any of the main things the PPI 
didnt cover, and it couldve  really  been useful for him in case  he fell on difficult times. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  was likely to have  put 
Mr G off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN03466882my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0346688