K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim under his group  income  protection  
insurance policy.
background
Mr D had an income protection policy through his employer which pays  out a portion of his 
income after hed been off work for 26 weeks (the deferred period). 
In August  2016,  Mr D was signed off work by his GP with depression  and ulcerative colitis  
(UC). Hed been first diagnosed with UC in 2007  and hed had a few flare ups before this 
condition stabilised between 2012 and 2016.  Mr D had also experienced periods of 
depression over a number  of years. 
A claim  was made to Unum under the policy  within the deferred period.
After considering Mr Ds medical  records Unum  didnt think  his medical conditions prevented 
him from working throughout the entire  deferred  period. So the claim was declined.  Mr D 
appealed Unums decision. But after considering further evidence,  Unum still declined the 
claim. Mr D didnt think that was fair so complained to us.
Our investigator concluded that Unum hadnt  done anything wrong by declining Mr Ds claim,  
so didnt uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Mr D disagreed and raised  several points in reply.  His 
complaint has now been  passed  to me to look at everything afresh  and to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
Before I explain why, I want to assure Mr D that Ive taken into account what he says about 
having several long term conditions  and the cumulative effect this has had on his health.  I 
can see that he has been through a very tough  time. But that doesnt automatically mean 
that if hes off work the policy would pay out. Any claim  is assessed against the terms of the 
policy. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members  income if they become incapacitated and 
have been incapacitated  throughout  the entire deferred period.
Under the policy a member is incapacitated if they are: 
unable, by reason of their illness to perform  the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation
Illness is defined as:
Ill-health  or disease  as evidenced by a significant  or objectively determined 
deterioration in physical or mental health.
Insured occupation  means:
Ref: DRN08099622the trade, profession or general role that the member was undertaking for, or at, the 
employer immediately prior to incapacity
So, for the policy to pay out Mr D mustve been unable to perform the job he was doing 
because of illness - throughout the entire deferred period. 
Im not a medical  expert;  rather my role is to assess the evidence and submissions provided 
by the parties.  And having done so, I dont think Unum has unfairly  or unreasonably declined 
Mr Ds claim.  Im satisfied thats  its fairly concluded that Mr D has been unable  to show  he 
was incapacitated  under  the terms of the policy  throughout the entire deferred period.  
I accept Mr Ds UC flared up in March 2016  and shortly after that he suffered depressive 
episodes (with psychosis) which hed also experienced in the past. He was signed off by his 
GP for these conditions  on 1 August 2016. I also accept that he suffered  with other 
conditions during the deferred period. There are references to several medical  conditions  in 
Mr Ds medical  records  during the deferred period (1 August 2016  to 31 January  2017) such 
as joint pain, sleep  apnoea and lethargy.
But I can see why Unum  has concluded  that theres insufficient evidence  to conclude that 
the conditions  Mr D was suffering  meant  that he was too unwell to do his  job throughout the 
entire deferred period.   
Mr D has told us the following:
During the deferred period the colitis was in the active (flare-up) stage and the 
symptoms I experienced  were: stools 8-12 times per day, vomiting, severe stomach  
and bowel pain,  severe lethargy and fatigue,  bloody stools  with occasional blood in 
vomit, inability to move due to pain and cramps,  fainting and nausea  along with 
severe dehydration and loss of weight.  I was bedridden  except  for when  I was in the 
toilet or bathroom...
Similarly, with respect to the psychiatric medicine  and treatment,  the symptoms  of 
suicidal ideation, malaise, pain and being bedridden for the majority of each day were 
experienced during the deferred period
With obstructive sleep apnoea,  parasomnia, restless legs syndrome and akathisia, all 
these conditions deteriorated throughout the deferred period
The symptoms of anxiety  disorder and panic attacks  were also severe during the 
deferred period  and I was given medicine for that...Equally, the arthritic and 
associated pain in my hips, spine, arms and fingers  remained the same  during this 
period.
But thats not entirely consistent with what Mr D put on his claim form dated October 2016. 
This was completed almost three  months  into the deferred period. Mr D says his normal 
daily routine involves showering in the morning and preparing breakfast and lunch. He also 
describes doing  his laundry, receiving  an online shopping delivery and preparing dinner in 
the evenings.  He doesnt mention being bedridden.
Mr D didnt attend many medical appointments or visit his GP too many  times during the 
deferred period.  And he didnt attend  any occupational health  appointments either.  That may 
be because he was too unwell to leave  his home  but it does  mean theres a lack of 
Ref: DRN08099623contemporaneous medical evidence to support  what  Mr D says about the effects  his 
conditions had on him during the deferred period.
There is an entry in Mr Ds GP records dated  12 August 2016 which shows  that his UC was 
being reviewed,  and that hed started  new medication for that condition.  The GP also 
reviewed Mr Ds psychosis but notes Mr D is doing  well, work thing going better and things 
moving forward. 
Mr D was also seen by the gastroenterology clinic on the same  day regarding his UC and 
the letter reflects that Mr D reported  having  no blood  or mucus in his stools. I also note that 
he was experiencing less bowel frequency than he had three months  before (in May 2016) - 
before the deferred period  began,  and at a time he was actively  working. And in May 2016 
Mr D had reported occasional blood  and mucus  in his stools  at that time. So it appears from 
the medical evidence that this condition hadnt  deteriorated and if anything, was improving 
by the time Mr D was signed off sick from work.   
Theres little reference  to Mr Ds UC after that in the contemporaneous medical records  
covering the deferred period. But Ive taken into account medical  evidence  which  post-dates 
the deferred period. This includes  a letter dated  September 2018, written  around 21 months 
after the end of the deferred period. Mr Ds GP has described the symptoms associated  with 
Mr Ds UC as: 
debilitating  pain associated with cramps,  diarrhoea with rectal  bleeding and urgency  
with regards to opening his bowels  sometimes more than 4 times a day with severe 
lethargy and fatigue, nausea and vomiting and light headiness. This would be 
present during both the daytime and night time usually resulting in him being bed 
bound
This is supported somewhat by a letter from a consultant Gastroenterologist also dated 
September 2018. Its reported that Mr Ds UC symptoms flared  up in May 2016  and hed had 
ongoing symptoms  until early 2017  with:
abdominal pains, diarrhoea  (bowels  opening  more  than 4 times a day), urgency and 
lethargy. He also has iritis and hip pains which may represent extra-intestinal  
manifestations of inflammatory  bowel disease.
Mr Ds GP also says in his letter dated  September 2018 that during the summer of 2016 Mr 
D was seen by a psychiatrist  and was visited daily by the home treatment team  whereby he 
was treated with medication for an episode of psychosis. During this time he says Mr D was 
suffering from a major  depressive episode  with psychosis,  generalised anxiety, panic attacks 
and frequent migraine  attacks. He also says that due to the severity of Mr Ds symptoms  
(along with other conditions such as sleep apnoea and chromic spine and joint pain) and 
being bed bound during  this period, Mr D was deemed unfit for work.
Given the date of the GPs letter Ive placed  less weight on this evidence. Also, as 
mentioned above,  it doesnt look like Mr Ds GP was in regular contact with him during the 
deferred period  so wouldnt have  been aware  of the effect Mr Ds conditions  had on him 
throughout that period.  
Ive also placed  less weight on the effects  of the depressive episode the GP describes in his 
letter which required  visits from the home treatment team. Thats because the 
contemporaneous GP records  reflect that team was discharged in June  2016   thats a 
Ref: DRN08099624couple of months  before  the deferred  period began. And Mr Ds employer has confirmed that 
he was actively working between March 2016 and the end of July 2016  so he was still able 
to perform his duties during the time hed experienced that particular  episode.  
Im also conscious that after 12 August 2016  (until towards the end of the deferred  period), 
theres no reference in the GP records of the effects Mr Ds depressive episodes, or his UC, 
was having on him. 
Ive also given less weight to the letter received  from consultant  Gastroenterologist  dated 
September 2018. This doesnt really detail the effects his UC had on him during the majority 
of the deferred  period. And Ive seen a letter from early March 2017  which  is much  closer 
to the date of the end of the deferred  period - from another consultant  Gastroenterologist. Its 
reflected that they were unable  to assess the limitations to Mr Ds daily activities at that 
stage largely because Mr D hadnt yet undergone a colonoscopy  or faecal sample  as 
suggested back in August  2016 which was very early on in the deferred period. 
So, all in all, Im satisfied  Unum has fairly declined Mr Ds claim on the basis that theres  
insufficient evidence  to support that his conditions had impacted him to such  an extent that 
he was unable to do perform his job throughout the entire deferred period.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0809962