K822xcomplaint
Mr N is unhappy that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) didnt comply with his request to 
stop sending his bank statements to his address  while he was abroad.
background 
Mr N says he went abroad from February 2018 to the end of March 2018. Before going 
away, Mr N asked RBS to stop sending his bank  statements to his address for this period.
Mr N gave his sister  authority to open his mail whilst  he was away.  He told us that he did so 
on the basis that he wasnt going to be sent any bank statements. Mr N says he didnt want 
his sister  seeing the financial information contained  within his statements.
RBS sent two bank  statements to his address - one in February 2018 after he went  away 
and one in March 2018 whilst he was still away. Mr Ns sister opened both statements. Mr N 
says that because his sister saw the information  on his statements, his relationship  with her 
is now damaged  irreparably. Mr N believes this could have been avoided if RBS had 
honoured his request. 
RBS apologised  to Mr N for not carrying out his request. The bank confirmed that Mr Ns 
statements are now set to go out electronically and can be accessed via his online banking.  
Because of this error,  RBS offered  to credit Mr Ns account with £20 for the time he spent 
dealing with this matter and an additional  £75 as compensation for the upset caused. Mr N 
was unhappy  with RBS response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the compensation amount offered by RBS was enough to 
recognise the upset  Mr N was caused. He felt that £200 compensation was more  
appropriate.
The bank agreed with the adjudicators recommendation.  But Mr N did not. He feels £500 
compensation is more  reasonable  due to the damage he says this has caused  to his 
relationship with his sister. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that RBS didnt follow Mr Ns request to stop sending his bank statements 
to his home address whilst he was abroad. RBS accepted it made a mistake and recognises  
that because of this mistake,  Mr Ns sister opened his mail and saw his statements  which 
Mr N wanted to avoid.  So I have to decide if its done enough to put things right.
Its clear to me that Mr N is troubled  by what has occurred and I can understand why  the 
bank should have complied with his request. I appreciate Mr N authorised his sister to collect 
and open his mail but he did so on the understanding that his statements  were not going to 
be sent.  Ive seen Mr Ns statements and its difficult for me to see from the way Mr N used  
his account what  prompted the conflict between him and his sister.  Mr  N hasnt been able to 
explain what  it was that caused such a serious  breakdown between  them.   Hes just said he 
didnt want his sister to see the amount of withdrawals made and where money was being  
transferred to and from his account. 
Ref: DRN03100402I cant know if the banks  mistake was the sole thing that led to the breakdown  in Mr Ns 
relationship with his sister.  And, of course,  money will never  truly compensate  for this kind 
of upset and it is impossible to go back and change  whats already happened.  Ive 
considered everything  Mr N has said.  But, overall,  I agree with our adjudicator that £200 
compensation fairly recognises the mistake and the upset hes been  caused. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  RBS to pay Mr N £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0310040