K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax. Mr N says:
Halifax refused to do a chargeback for a transaction of £555
Halifax allowed a payment of £659.99 go out of Mr Ns account, after  they said 
the account was blocked
Halifax didnt  raise  a chargeback for the transaction of  £659.99
Halifax have told Mr N he didnt  need to repay the overdraft on the account, 
and then changed their mind and said it did have to be paid
Halifax have closed  Mr Ns account
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  are in my provisional 
decision. Ive attached  a copy below  and this forms part of this final decision.
I didnt uphold any of Mr Ns complaints,  so I didnt think Halifax had  to do anything  
further.
Mr N responded, and told us hes got proof that Halifax want  to resolve this 
transaction. And that hes been  told on the phone by Halifax he doesnt need  to pay 
the unplanned overdraft  amount anymore.
Halifax didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
I have again considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to  decide whats 
fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has repeated comments  hes previously  made. And  Im satisfied  Ive answered 
the concerns Mr N has raised in my provisional  decision.
Because of this, and as Halifax  havent added any additional comments,  I wont be 
changing my provisional decision  thats previously been provided to Mr N. Ive 
attached this to the bottom of this final decision.
Ref: DRN00244342my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained below, I dont uphold any of  Mr Ns complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N  to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00244343copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr N has complained about  Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax. Mr N says:
Halifax refused to do a chargeback for a transaction of £555
Halifax allowed  a payment of £659.99 go out of Mr Ns account, after they said the account 
was blocked
Halifax didnt raise a chargeback for the transaction of £659.99
Halifax have told Mr N he didnt need to repay the overdraft on the account,  and then 
changed their mind  and said it did have  to be paid.
Halifax have closed Mr Ns account
background
transaction for £555
In October  2018 Mr N bought  a computer on a well-known internet store, and paid for it from his 
Halifax current account via a well-known online  payment  company. When the computer arrived  Mr N 
said it was damaged. Mr N raised a dispute about this  and exchanged messages  with the seller of 
the computer.
Halifax raised the chargeback, and said the seller defended  the dispute by giving  evidence showing 
the computer  was sent in good condition.
Halifax said if goods, such as the computer Mr N bought, are damaged after theyve been posted then 
no chargeback rights  apply. This is because the money can only be claimed back  from who it was 
paid to  in Mr Ns case he paid the seller for the computer,  so Halifax cant  raise  a chargeback 
against the delivery  company for any damage caused.
Mr N said the computer came to him damaged, the seller doesnt want it back  anymore and are 
blaming him. Mr N says he has evidence of the damage  so hes unhappy  Halifax didnt get the 
money back.
payment of £659.99 allowed to go out
Mr N says he was told his account would be blocked, and because  of this no payments were  allowed 
to come out. Mr N was then unhappy that Halifax  debited his account for £659.99 after the block was 
applied.
Halifax told us the payment was authorised by Mr N on 14 November, before the account was 
blocked on 15 November,  so thats why it was debited from Mr Ns account.
chargeback for £659.99
Halifax have given us a note written about a phone call Mr N made on 28 November 2018.  In that 
phone call, Halifax have  written Mr N wanted to raise a chargeback  for £659.99 due to the laptop hed 
received being faulty. Halifax  have written that Mr N had to send the laptop back, and send proof to 
Halifax that Mr N had done that.
Halifax have said Mr N didnt  send proof that the laptop had been returned,  so no chargeback was 
attempted.
repayment of the overdraft
Ref: DRN00244344Mr N has said he was told by Halifax  on 19 November 2018  in a phone call he didnt have to repay  
the overdraft  on the account.
Halifaxs decision  to close Mr Ns account
In Halifaxs letter of 16 November 2018 Halifax wrote that Mr Ns account  would  be closed. Halifax  
had concerns about the disputes  Mr N was raising, and had told Mr N of these  previously. Halifax said 
because Mr N had continued to raise disputes they didnt agree with, they were  going  to close Mr Ns 
account.
Mr N was unhappy with the decision to close the account.  Mr N has also told the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, and Halifax, that Halifax  were  going to reopen the account, but then decided 
not to. Halifax says the account was always going to be closed once notice had been given, and 
hadnt told Mr N the account  would be reopened.
what did the case handler  at the Financial Ombudsman Service do?
The case handler at the Financial Ombudsman  Service considered aspects of Mr Ns complaint, and 
decided not to uphold it. Mr N said this was wrong. Mr N said his criteria  was correct, and Halifaxs 
were wrong, so Mr Ns complaint was passed to me to decide.
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont plan to uphold any of complaint about the 
chargebacks, account closure and overdraft and credit file Mr N has complained about, described  
above.
I would like to explain chargebacks are done through the card scheme VISA, MasterCard or AmEx 
and the rules  for chargebacks are specific to each of these schemes. In Mr Ns case the VISA rules 
apply.
transaction for £555
Mr N isnt happy the transaction  wasnt refunded, as the computer  was damaged. Halifax doesnt  
have to raise chargebacks, but its considered  good practice to do so.
Halifax said the chargeback was raised, as Mr N had asked. But the chargeback was defended by the 
seller. The seller sent photos  to show the computer had been packaged  well, and in good condition.  
Halifax said if the computer  was damaged in the post, then no chargeback  can be made  against the 
seller  as the seller isnt responsible for the damaged computer.  Halifax are right about this.
Halifax got a copy of the messages between Mr N and the seller.  In these messages  Mr N says the 
seller isnt responsible  for the damage to the computer.
Because of this, Halifax are right. Mr Ns chargeback shouldnt be successful,  so I dont plan to tell 
Halifax to refund £555  to him.
payment of £659.99 allowed to go out
Halifax told Mr N in the letter dated  15 November that Mr Ns account would be blocked. A
payment of £659.99 was then taken from Mr Ns account on 22 November 2018.
Halifax have given me evidence in the form of a screen shot to show  the payment was authorised on 
14 November 2018. This was before Halifax blocked Mr Ns account on 15 November 2018.
Mr N complained, saying he was told no payments  were allowed to be debited, so £659.99 should be 
refunded to the account.  Halifax  have given  us a written note which shows on 19 November 2018 Mr 
Ref: DRN00244345N was told this payment  wouldnt go out. But I can also see written notes for phone calls between Mr 
N and Halifax on 19 November 2018 where Halifax  explained to Mr N that hed made  the payment 
before the block was applied  and if Mr N had authorised the payment it would  still come out.
Mr N made the payment  using his VISA debit card. A VISA  debit card payment is a guaranteed form 
of payment once its been authorised even if the account is subsequently blocked.  Mr Ns payment 
was authorised on 14 November  2018, but the account  wasnt  blocked  until 15 November 2018,  so 
Halifax had to pay it.
Because the payment  was made before Halifax  blocked  the account,  its correct that the payment  
comes out. Because of this, I dont plan to tell Halifax  to refund Mr N £659.99.
chargeback for £659.99
Mr N didnt ask us to look at this issue. But I think it might help Mr N and Halifax if I do so. Halifax  
have given me notes of conversations with Mr N. On 28 November 2018 Mr N called
Halifax. Halifax have recorded that Mr N told them the laptop he bought for £659.99 was faulty. Halifax 
have written that Mr N was told the laptop  had to be returned. And proof of return  was required before 
a chargeback would be raised.
On 6 December 2018 Mr N called Halifax. Halifax have written that Mr N was told evidence needed to 
be sent to Halifax to show the laptop was returned.
Halifax have acted correctly  by asking  for evidence  the laptop was returned. Ive looked at everything 
Mr N and Halifax have sent me on this complaint.  I cant see anything to prove
Mr N returned the laptop and told Halifax.  This means Halifax acted  correctly by not raising a 
chargeback.
repayment of the overdraft
Mr N says he was told on 19 November  2018 he wouldnt have to repay his overdraft. Ive listened  to 
the phone call Mr N had on this day. Halifax didnt tell Mr N he doesnt have to repay the overdraft.
Ive also listened to other phone calls, and looked at all evidence Mr N and Halifax have sent in. 
Theres nothing to indicate  Halifax told Mr N he wouldnt have to repay  the overdraft.
Mr Ns overdraft has been  partly created as a result of the transactions  for £555 and £659.99 being 
debited to the account. Mr N has said he shouldnt  have to pay these amounts. But Ive explained  in 
this letter why I dont plan to tell Halifax to refund Mr N these  transactions. And he hasnt disputed  any 
of the other  transactions  which make up the overdrawn amount. That means  Mr N is responsible for 
the entire overdraft, and will need to speak to Halifax to discuss repayment of it. So I dont plan to tell 
Halifax that Mr N doesnt  have  to repay the overdraft.
If Mr N hasnt  made  repayments  to the overdrawn  account, it could be a reason  why his credit score 
has been affected. Mr N may wish to contact Halifax  to discuss repayment of the outstanding 
overdraft to prevent this overdraft affecting Mr Ns credit  score any further.
Halifaxs decision  to close Mr Ns account
In Halifaxs letter of 15 November 2018 Halifax told Mr N his account would be closed.
The terms  and conditions that applied  to the account Mr N held with Halifax set out whether the bank 
can close accounts.  The terms and conditions allow Halifax to close Mr Ns account,  and these terms 
and conditions say Mr N will be given 60 days notice.
Ref: DRN00244346Halifax warned Mr N about the account closure  on 15 November 2018. And I can see from Mr Ns 
statements that the account  was closed on 21 March  2019. This was more than 60 days later,  so I 
dont think Halifax acted unfairly.
Because of this, I dont plan to tell Halifax to reopen Mr Ns account.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in this letter, I dont plan to uphold any of Mr Ns complaints.  I now 
invite Mr N and Halifax  to send me any further evidence  to consider  by 23 May 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0024434