K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited  have refused him a refund.
background
Mr O has a store card account with Home Retail Group. In January 2019 Mr O used his 
account to buy a mobile phone. The phone was delivered to his address and signed for by a 
woman. 
However, Mr O complained that the phone never reached him. He suggested whoever 
signed for the phone  wasnt a member of his household. He also said that at the time the 
phone was delivered he was at work. Mr O told us hed talked to all of his neighbours (he 
lives in a flat) none of them knew  anything  about  the phone. In the circumstances,  Mr  O 
does not agree he ought to be charged  for the phone..
Home Retail  Group disagreed with Mr Os stance. It suggested that the phone  was correctly 
delivered and signed for by a woman at Mr Os address. It told us Mr O chose  the time and 
the date of the delivery. It didnt accept  it had done  anything wrong  and it wasnt  prepared to 
refund his money.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr O came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. On 
balance, he thought it likely that the phone was correctly delivered.  That being so he had no 
proper basis for asking Home Retail Group to refund Mr O.
Home Retail  Group appeared to accept our investigators recommendation, Mr O didnt. He 
suggested that the most likely explanation  for the missing phone is that the delivery driver 
kept the phone himself.  He also suggested that his suspicions about this were backed up 
because even though he had asked  that the delivery  driver  come back and tell him face to 
face about the delivery, Home Retail Group had declined to do this. From  his perspective,   it 
was significant  that the Home Retail Group wouldnt give him a sample of the drivers 
signature to compare against the signature  of the person who signed  for the delivery.
Mr O asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint and issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive finished my review  of Mr Os complaint. I dont  intend to uphold  it. I realise  this will most 
likely disappoint Mr O. That is not my intention,  far from it. However, I dont find that I have 
any fair and reasonable basis for upholding  his complaint. Please let me explain why I have 
come to this decision.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN08542932Mr O s complaint is based on the rights he has under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr O has a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against the supplier he can also bring that claim against 
Home Retail  Group provided certain  conditions are met.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding what is a fair way to resolve Mr Os complaint,  I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law, therefore Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr O pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
Mr O paid the supplier to deliver the phone to him. Mr O used credit  supplied by 
Home Retail  Group to pay for this contract. I think it was part of his contract with the supplier 
that the phone would be delivered safely to his address. If I thought  it likely  this didnt 
happen then I would  say the contract  had been  breached and it would be fair and 
reasonable to say Home Retail Group  ought  to refund him.
Mr O is not suggesting  the phone was delivered to another  address in his building by 
mistake. Rather, he is suggesting the driver kept the phone for himself.  Signed for it himself  
and made  up a story about going to Mr Os address to deliver  the phone. 
If I am to accept Mr Os version  of events Id have  to say it was likely that the delivery driver 
put his livelihood at risk by depriving  Mr O of his property  and keeping  it to himself.  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that there is a consistent pattern of dishonest  behaviour by this driver or 
alternatively that this was a one-off dishonest action by the driver. 
I dont think it is significant that Home  Retail Group  wouldnt agree to send the driver back  to 
talk to Mr O. I cant see what that would have achieved. The driver had already given his 
version of events. I dont  see how recounting it to Mr O in person would have changed  
anything. 
He has told us he wanted the phone  as a gift for his relative. So he chose to have the phone 
delivered at a time when that relative  was meant to be at home.  Despite this it seems, from 
what he tells us now that relative  was not at home  at the time the delivery was made.
Mr O sent in a copy of the passport  of his relative. He tells us the signature of the person 
who signed for the phone  and the signature in the passport are not the same. His position is 
this also supports the idea that the driver was the one who signed for the phone. .As I 
understand it the phone  was signed for on an electronic device. I think it is fair to say that 
most signatures done using that method are unlike the signatures  we might use on an 
important document  like a passport. Moreover,  Im not a signature expert,  Im in no position 
to say that the signatures could not have been done  by the same person. 
Instead, what I do have  is information that suggests  that the phone was sent out for delivery 
to arrive at the time and date Mr O chose. He has checked with his neighbours and theyve 
said the phone wasnt delivered to them, so I dont think the driver went  to the wrong  
address. On balance, I find that the phone  was most  likely delivered to his address and 
signed for by someone at his address. I cant say why Mr O hasnt got the phone. But I dont 
have to explain this in order to resolve  this complaint fairly. 
Ref: DRN08542933In summary,  for the reasons I have set out above I think it is most likely  on balance  that the 
phone was delivered to Mr Os address. It follows that I dont find that it would be fair and 
reasonable to say Home Retail Group  has done anything wrong. In particular,  I find I have 
no proper basis for saying that Home Retail Group  must  refund  Mr Os money. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0854293