K820x#14complaint
Miss C isnt happy that Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has declined a claim she made  on her travel  insurance policy.  
background
Miss C was on holiday in Dubai with her mum and her sister. They were due to travel  on to 
Spain before returning to the UK. Unfortunately  whilst  in Dubai Miss Cs mother,  Mrs C, 
became unwell with heatstroke and/or gastroenteritis.
Miss C says they all had to return to the UK rather than travel to Spain as her mum wasnt 
well enough to continue  with the trip. She also explained that she has fibromyalgia which  
flared up due to the stress of the situation.  
Mapfre declined Miss Cs claim  for cutting her trip short because she hadnt discussed this 
with them  and got permission to do so. And they didnt think  there  was enough  evidence  to 
show it was medically necessary to cut the trip short. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint because she didnt  think  it was 
unreasonable for Mapfre to decline the claim. Miss C didnt think this was a fair outcome and 
so the case has been passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  The policy  terms and conditions say: 
We must  agree for you to return to your home area (or your final country  of a one-
way trip) under section  B (Medical and other expenses) or Section A (Cancelling  and 
cutting short your holiday). If we do not agree, we will not provide  cover and we may 
reduce the amount we pay you to return to your home area (or the final country  of a 
one-way trip). 
And: 
You must get our permission if you have  to cut your holiday  short and return  early  to 
your home area (or your final country  if you are on a one-way trip) for an insured 
reason. If you are unable  to contact us for permission you must get a doctor's 
certificate in resort confirming the medical necessity  for you to return home earlier  
than planned.   
Under the policy terms a trip can be cut short if the policyholder, a relative, or a person  the 
policyholder is travelling with becomes seriously  ill. A trip cannot be cut short because the 
policyholder doesnt want to travel. 
Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint because: 
Ref: DRN04704302Miss Cs claim  to Mapfre  was made  on the basis that she, Miss C, had been ill. When 
asked to confirm  what  medical condition shed  suffered she said it was fibromyalgia 
and back pain.  So I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Mapfre to assess the claim on 
that basis, as that was the information  Miss C provided to them in support of her 
claim
Miss C explained that her Fibromyalgia flared  up as a result  of the stress of the 
situation. But theres no medical  evidence from the time to support  that. The letter  
from Miss Cs consultant explains that Miss C has fibromyalgia and it isnt beyond the 
bounds of possibility  that she had a flare up on holiday. The letter is dated 
approximately a year after the holiday to Dubai  and, in any event, I dont think it 
demonstrates it was medically  necessary  for Miss C to cut her trip short
Miss C says the reason they had to return home was because her mum wasnt well. 
But Miss C didnt  discuss cutting  the trip short with Mapfre,  either because of her own 
health or her mothers, before booking the flights  back  to the UK. I can understand 
why she was anxious to go home but the policy terms require her to get permission 
before cutting the trip short or obtain a certificate showing that it was medically 
necessary to do so
Miss C says that Mapfre told her to pay and claim. Ive listened to the conversations  
she had with Mapfre, using their emergency assistance line. Mapfre  did say Miss C 
and her family could  pay and claim for the medical  expenses  but I dont think this 
advice extended  to cutting the trip short. Im satisfied it was made sufficiently clear 
that any claim would  be subject to review  by the medical team. And, in any event, the 
calls with Mapfre, and the flight bookings, show that the flights  back to the UK had 
been arranged  before any detailed  discussion with Mapfre  about not travelling  on to 
Spain took place
The medical evidence  in relation to whether it was medically necessary to cut short 
the trip isnt very detailed or clear. The initial reports said that Mrs C wouldnt be fit to 
fly until the 16 August.  There was no mention  of her being unable  to travel on to 
Spain for a few days and there isnt an explanation in the reports as to why she 
needed to go back to the UK. It wasnt until around  a year after the trip that a more 
detailed report was issued saying that it was medically necessary. I dont think its 
unreasonable for Mapfre to place less weight  on that report as it was issued so long 
after the claim was made and a considerable amount of time after doctor  had seen 
Mrs C. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0470430