K820x#14complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  didnt do enough to help her when she 
was in financial difficulties. Specifically,  she believes that it should have switched her on to a 
lower interest rate product, thereby reducing her monthly mortgage payments, which might 
have helped her avoid, or at least reduce, the arrears on her account.
background
In 2007 Mrs G took out a mortgage  with BoS.  It was on a repayment basis and initially  had a 
two-year interest rate product attached to it. When that product expired, Mrs G didnt ask for 
a new one. 
In mid-2013 Mrs G encountered financial difficulties. Arrears  accrued on the mortgage during 
a period when  Mrs Gs income  was significantly lower than usual. However, once her income 
increased again, she was able to pay the monthly  payment on the mortgage plus an 
additional sum to reduce the arrears. In July 2014  BoS agreed to capitalise the arrears on 
Mrs Gs account  it added the arrears  to the capital  balance of the mortgage account  so 
that they would be paid over the remaining term.
Unfortunately, a couple of months  later Mrs G encountered  further  financial difficulties and 
arrears again started to build-up on the account.  Over the following two years Mrs G kept 
BoS informed  of what was happening  and it effectively allowed her to pay what she could, 
whenever she could.  During this time there were numerous proposals and promises  made 
by Mrs G about what she would pay and when  many of which  were not fulfilled. However, 
in November 2016 a six-month payment arrangement was agreed  with Mrs G, which  she 
stuck to and in March  2017 BoS again  agreed to capitalise the arrears on the account. 
In late 2015 Mrs G had moved out of the mortgaged property and rented it out. She didnt at 
that time ask consent from BoS to do so. However, this was subsequently granted in early 
2017 and resulted in an increase to the monthly mortgage payment. This was due to the fact 
that BoS adds  an additional interest  charge onto residential mortgages when mortgaged 
properties are rented  out. Mrs G moved  back to the mortgaged property in the second half of 
2018.
In mid-2017 Mrs G again experienced  a decrease in her income.  This meant that she was 
unable to make the full mortgage payment and arrears started  to build up again.  
Mrs G complained to BoS a few months later about  its handling of her mortgage during all 
three periods of financial difficulties. BoS confirmed  that Mrs G wasnt  eligible for a new 
product while  she was in arrears. As such, after June  2013, she had only been eligible for a 
product between 15 July 2014 and 24 September 2014. It said that it couldnt find any record 
of Mrs G applying for a new rate or discussing the possibility. As such, it rejected the 
complaint. 
Mrs G was not happy with BoS response and referred her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and recommended  that it be upheld. BoS didnt 
accept the investigators  position and asked for an ombudsmans review of the case, as it 
was entitled to.
One of my colleagues  considered the complaint and issued a provisional  decision in 
October 2018. In that document she concluded that whilst BoS had a duty to try to assist 
Ref: DRN08328322Mrs G in her financial difficulties  and to treat her in a fair and understanding manner, she 
didnt think it reasonable to have expected  BoS to have taken the initiative in looking for 
ways to reduce  Mrs Gs outgoings. She concluded  that it wouldnt be practical to expect BoS 
to provide unsolicited,  tailored advice about products that might be suitable for a consumer  
in such a position. 
Mrs G didnt accept my colleagues conclusions. She provided further evidence  she wanted 
considered. This included  the telephone calls from the time her arrears  were consolidated 
into her mortgage in 2014 and BoS telephone  process document for consumers who ask for 
new interest rate products. Mrs G says that these evidence that she did ask about getting a 
new lower interest rate and that she should  have been given it on the same day as her 
arrears were  consolidated  in 2014.  Mrs G says this was not the only occasion that she asked 
for a rate switch and she wasnt  given the opportunity or the correct information about the 
process. 
BoS accepted my colleagues provisional decision  and had nothing further to add.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 February  2019. In that document I explained my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an extract  of that decision.
Mrs G has said that she asked BoS many times about changing to a different interest rate in 
order to reduce her mortgage payments. That may be the case,  but without knowing when 
those requests were  made, it is difficult for me to comment on whether, reasonably, BoS 
should have given her a different interest  rate. This is because  for a large proportion of the 
time in question Mrs G was in arrears  and for some time, renting the property out. She 
wasnt eligible for a rate change in either of those situations, as is common  across the 
mortgage industry.
So reasonably the only period that Mrs G could  have  had a rate change  application 
considered was when her first period of arrears had been capitalised, but before she went  
into arrears again. Mrs G has provided  clear evidence in the form a telephone call on 
11 July 2014 that she did ask about  taking out a new interest rate product. She believes that 
as BoS had agreed to capitalise her arrears at that point, it should  also have agreed to give 
her a new interest rate product. 
I have listened  carefully  to the telephone recording and I must disagree with Mrs Gs 
conclusion. It was explained to her that she couldnt apply for an interest rate change while 
she was in arrears. She acknowledged that and I believe indicated  that she was already 
aware that was the case. She was also told that if she wanted a new rate she could apply 
when the capitalisation had gone  through. That process wasnt  completed immediately; it 
didnt finish processing  until several days later  15 July. 
As such,  Mrs G couldnt have applied for a rate transfer on the day BoS agreed  to capitalise 
her arrears.  She could,  however, have  done  so afterwards. The B0S member of staff 
suggested that she wait until the end of the month/the following month before she spoke to a 
branch or the relevant telephone team.  I dont  think this was aimed at preventing her from 
having a new interest  rate product, but rather to avoid her being  disappointed if she tried 
applying to quickly and the consolidation hadnt completed. 
I am satisfied that Mrs Gs request for a new interest rate product couldnt have been 
actioned at the time she asked for it. So I dont  think BoS did anything  wrong in the 
telephone call Mrs G provided us with. In that call she was also told she could  try to apply in 
Ref: DRN08328323a few weeks time and she was told how to do so. Mrs G hasnt said that she contacted  BoS 
when it was suggested she do so and having  looked at BoS records, there doesnt appear 
to be any further  contact from Mrs G until after she was again in arrears.  
In summary,  whilst I accept that Mrs G did, on at least one occasion, ask about  a new 
interest rate product,  it doesnt appear that she did so at a time she was eligible to make 
such an application. I am not persuaded that BoS did anything wrong in the telephone call of 
11 July 2014 when it told her to ask again after the capitalisation had been completed. 
I have considered whether, Mrs G having  mentioned the possibility of changing interest 
rates, BoS should have done  something further  before she got into arrears  again. I am not 
persuaded that was reasonable that it should have. Mrs G was clearly aware that an interest 
rate product  might be able to reduce  her outgoings and she was aware  that she could ask to 
apply for such a product after the capitalisation completed.  In these circumstances I wouldnt 
expect BoS to approach Mrs G to make an application. It would for her to decide whether 
she wanted to pursue  changing to a new interest rate product and go back to BoS to discuss  
the matter again.  
Like my colleague  I must commend Mrs G for the interactive communication  she has 
maintained with BoS during her financial difficulties. I suspect that is why it displayed the 
high level of forbearance it did throughout. However, and I know that this will disappoint 
Mrs G, I am not persuaded that BoS should have done more  than it did to assist  her during 
her financial  difficulties.
Mrs G didnt accept my provisional decision.  She provided another copy  of BoS procedure  
for applications for new interest rate products. She said that although she was told to call 
back in a month, it wasnt explained  to her the reason why. She didnt understand why she 
wouldnt be able to switch  her rate as her account was no longer in arrears.  She didnt 
expect BoS to proactively approach her with a solution, assistance, information  or advice. 
However, she considers  that when she asked for help BoS should have provided  that help. 
She reiterated that when it was agreed that her arrears  could  be capitalised, she asked for a 
new interest rate product.  BoS should have  explained  her options. In addition,  there were 
multiple times during the term of the mortgage that she spoke with BoS staff asking for help. 
Every time she was denied a new product  and told it was best to wait, but nobody explained 
her options.  
Mrs G said that at no time was she looked at as an individual and given options available to 
her that might  prevent future issues. As a customer she was reliant  on BoS to provide her 
with clear information about the option of taking a new product. Just telling her she couldnt 
without any explanation as to why and no information as to how to apply was not fair or 
reasonable. Mrs G considers that the member of staff she spoke to who arranged  the 
arrears consolidation  failed to give her clear  and relevant information regarding her requests, 
which is an error rather than a choice to spare  her feelings.
BoS confirmed  that it had no further  comment to make.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN08328324I have considered Mrs Gs further comments.  As I said in my provisional  decision, there are 
no notes indicating Mrs G asked for a new rate and what she was told. I cant  comment on 
what might  or might not have happened  with so little evidence  of those events. I can only 
comment on the one incident of Mrs G asking for a new product that I have the recording for 
in July 2004. 
Its clear that Mrs G was told in the July 2004  conversation that she couldnt apply for a new 
product while  her account was in arrears. Mrs G acknowledged this in such a way as to 
indicate that she was already aware  of that fact. She was told to wait until the consolidation 
was complete and then ask again. The adviser told her that she should speak to someone in 
a branch or the rates  team over the phone. 
I am satisfied that BoS acted reasonably. Whilst Mrs G appears to think that she was eligible 
for a new rate when the arrears consolidation was agreed, that wasnt  the case. The 
administration of that process had to be completed before the arrears were  cleared, which  
would take a few days.  Hence she was told to ask again later. I am satisfied that BoS was 
clear about  what she needed  to do to apply for a new product, had she wanted to.
Whilst I have considered all Mrs G has had to say throughout her complaint, I am not 
persuaded that BoS did anything wrong in its dealings with her during her financial 
difficulties.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs G to accept  or reject my decision before 
20 April 2019..
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0832832