K820x#14Complaint
Mr W and Ms G complain  that Phoenix  Wealth  Services Limited  (previously known as AXA 
Wealth Service Limited (AXA))  removed a key feature  from its Family SunTrust - the non- 
proportionate allocation of growth  facility, also known as the Flexibility Option.
Mr W and Ms G also complain about  the way AXA sold the Family SunTrust to them.
Background
The AXA Family SunTrust (FST) allowed individual pensions to be grouped together  and 
investment growth  to be re-allocated between the members  pensions on a non- 
proportionate basis. AXA refers to this facility  as the Flexibility Option. To keep things 
simple, thats how I will refer to it in the rest of this decision.
In November 2014 Mr W has said he started discussions with his financial adviser about 
investing into the FST and his adviser  communicated at length with AXA about  this and 
specifically about  the workings  of the Flexibility Option. In November 2014 the adviser gave 
information to Mr W that AXA had provided  in answer to some questions he had raised 
about the FST. This included a note from AXAs legal advisers dated May 2012  specifically 
concerning the Flexibility  Option. Mr W says this provided him with reassurance  about the 
Flexibility Option, that it would remain a feature  of the FST and that if HMRC had concerns 
AXA could strongly challenge this.
In October  2015, Mr W completed paperwork to apply for the FST in his name  only.  AXA 
received this paperwork in early  November 2015  and sent it on to HMRC to get the FST 
registered. It also emailed  Mr Ws adviser  (as well as many  other  advisers) explaining that it 
was experiencing delays  in registering FSTs because HMRC was querying the Flexibility 
Option. It has later transpired that the IFA didnt receive this email.
Around nine weeks  later Mr Ws adviser contacted AXA as hed not heard anything  further  
about Mr Ws FST application. At this point AXAs representative explained that HMRC were  
delaying registering FSTs because of concerns around the Flexibility Option. The adviser 
has explained he was surprised by this, that they hadnt been made aware  of this and that 
they had previously been reassured that the Flexibility Option was unlikely to be successfully 
challenged by HMRC.
After AXA looked  into this matter it found  that the email it had sent in November 2015  had 
been sent to an incorrect  address. It wrote to Mr Ws adviser on 5 January 2016 explaining 
this. It also found that another  letter from December  2015, which again explained why there 
were delays in HMRC registering the schemes, had also not been sent. The email from 
January 2016  set out the information that was included in the November 2015 letter, but also 
stated that the FST had now been registered with HMRC that month and that if it didnt hear 
anything further  from Mr W it would assume he was content to proceed.
Around 8 January 2016, AXA spoke with Mr Ws adviser and it was confirmed that Mr W still 
wanted to proceed  with his FST application. His adviser said Ms G, Mr Ws wife, also wanted  
to become a member  of this FST. He also checked during the call that AXA was still using 
the Flexibility Option to make non-proportionate allocations of investment growth. He said he 
was aware that HMRC  could always kick up but that he was also aware that AXA had 
obtained an opinion  from Queens Counsel saying that the option  was robust. He 
commented on the fact that his client knew the counsel involved (being in the legal 
profession himself) and was happy to proceed.
Ref: DRN03213692It is noted that at this stage Mr W had already  transferred some of his pension benefits  into 
an AXA SIPP pending  the registration  of his FST, at the beginning of November  2015,  not 
long after the application for the FST was submitted. As well as this AXA had no record of 
Mr W and Ms G applying  to vary the terms of the FST,  as they wouldve had to, to use the 
Flexibility Option.
In July 2016 AXA sent the adviser  an email explaining that due to HMRCs concerns about 
the Flexibility Option and recent advice from its legal advisers it had made the decision to 
withdraw the Flexibility  Option in the FST shortly. It formerly told Mr W of the withdrawal of 
the Flexibility Option in a letter dated  12 September 2016, after the official  withdrawal  date of 
2 September 2016.
In the process  of answering this complaint AXA also explained that whilst  it formally informed 
FST investors of the intention to withdraw the Flexibility Option in line with the terms and 
condition in August  2016, it didnt include Mr W in this mailing because the Flexibility Option 
on his FST had not been activated. Therefore, the thirty days notice period didnt apply.
Mr W has said the key reason he selected the FST was because  of the Flexibility Option. His 
pension benefits  at the time were significant  and so it seems his intention was to make use 
of the Flexibility Option  to mitigate his tax position  and to grow his wifes  pensions pot.
He said the email from AXA in January 2016, accepting  previous information hadnt been  
sent correctly, was too late because by then he had already transferred his pension  benefits 
from other providers into an AXA SIPP in readiness  to be transferred into the FST.
He felt the steps AXA had taken  to notify  him of the potential  withdrawal of the Flexibility 
Option were insufficient. And had he known about the risk of withdrawal earlier  he would 
have reconsidered  his options.
Mr W has also said that while legal advice was taken when the scheme  was set up, its not 
apparent whether advice was taken prior to the decision to withdraw the Flexibility Option 
and without there being any formal  challenge  to AXAs  position.
He also feels that the timing of the withdrawal  of the Flexibility Option was suspiciously 
close to the announcement that AXA was selling  the FST to Phoenix Group.  Therefore  he
thinks that in withdrawing the Flexibility Option AXA was in breach of contract  and of its 
regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly. And AXA should be expected  to show  why it 
abandoned the key feature of the scheme  despite the fact there had been no change  in the 
law and when it had made confident representations  which Mr W and Ms G had relied  on. 
Having previously said the possibility of a challenge  was low, it should not have abandoned 
the Flexibility Option without a fight unless there was good reason to do so.
Overall, Mr W feels he and his wife have lost out financially from a tax perspective.  Also the 
FST has higher charges than the defined contribution schemes Mr W transferred his benefits  
from and does not offer the security  of benefits  his final salary scheme offered. He says he 
wouldnt have withdrawn  from those  schemes  but for the Flexibility Option. He says they 
have also had to meet the costs of their adviser.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our adjudicators who was of the view it should be 
dismissed without consideration of the merits. He said that the FST was a controversial 
product and there was always the risk the Flexibility  Option could be withdrawn.  He thought 
although AXA had not provided full details of why it had changed its interpretation, it was 
Ref: DRN03213693satisfied this wasnt because of the sale to Phoenix. Ultimately, he felt the decision by AXA 
was one of commercial judgement and therefore  not an issue this Service could consider.
I issued my provisional findings in August 2020 where I set out why I thought the complaint  
couldnt be upheld.  An extract  of this is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Did AXA act in line with the terms and conditions of the FST in withdrawing the 
Flexibility Option
Mr W has explained that the main reason for investing into the FST was to make use of the 
Flexibility Option. He feels that AXA knew this therefore the fact he didnt formally apply to 
vary the terms of the FST, as he had to in order to activate the option, didnt matter.  As the 
Flexibility Option no longer exists  and this point doesnt impact my decision, I dont intend to 
address it, apart from in relation  to Mr Ws contention that he feels  AXA has acted outside  of 
the FSTs terms and conditions.
Had Mr W and Ms G varied the terms of the FST so the Flexibility Option applied,  according 
to its terms and conditions  AXA could cease to apply this option only if there are changes  in, 
or [AXAs] interpretation of, applicable  pensions, tax or other  law, legislation, regulation or 
industry codes of practice. [AXA] can exercise  this right upon giving you 30 days written 
notice so far as it is practicable to do so. The change will take effect  from the date stated in 
the written notice.
So, I am satisfied that AXA had the ability to remove the Flexibility Option if it met the criteria
in the terms and conditions. I have next considered whether AXA did indeed meet the criteria  
mentioned above.  In particular, did it change its interpretation of the applicable pension laws 
and regulation. To do this, I have looked  at the history of AXAs involvement and dealings  
with the FST.
AXA has provided me with information concerning the communication  it had with HMRC 
about the FST. I have seen:
The template  letters  from the AXA FST manager  to advisers where  the scheme was 
applied for/or had been taken out. These are dated 2015 and 2016.
The timeline of the development  of the FST scheme, provided by AXA.
Letters between HMRC and the FST team at AXA from May 2015 to July 2015 
discussing the scheme and more specifically  the Flexibility  Option.
Six confidential reports from AXAs legal advisers of various dates.
From this information I can see that:
AXA started to look into the feasibility of launching the product in late 2006. In light of 
HMRC legislation  and after legal advice it launched the FST on a limited basis  in 
March 2008 and launched it fully in February 2009.
Its documented in the timeline provided by AXA that at this point in time HMRCs  
view was that the Flexibility Option  was within the rules, but it was noted  that HMRC 
provided no guarantees that position  wouldnt  change in the future.
For the next few years, until 2015 the information indicates AXA kept reviewing the 
scheme and despite some changes to pension regulation over these years  AXA 
remained satisfied that HMRC  was content with the scheme and that its Flexibility 
Option was within the relevant rules. This included further  legal opinion  in 2013 
indicating that the environmental  risk in the area of pensions had increased but that 
Ref: DRN03213694the underlying  legislation had not changed. In light of this AXA decided  to continue  
operation of the FST unchanged.
However, in May 2015 HMRC asked for further details from AXA about how the 
pooled growth  in the scheme was allocated  to its members. This appears to have 
been prompted by an increase in pension liberation scams (a type of fraud). AXAs  
response tried to reassure HMRC  about the Flexibility Option, but HMRC  advised  
that it had concerns  over the model  being  used to allocate growth and it felt that this 
could be contrary to sections 172 (Assignment of benefits)  and/or 172A (Surrender of 
benefits) of the Finance  Act 2004.
Because of these  concerns, HMRC  stopped registering new schemes.
There was a further meeting between AXA and HMRC in September  2015.
HMRC resumed registration of the FST in October 2015. In the same  month  AXA 
issued communications  to advisers  that registration of the FST had resumed but its 
discussions with HMRC  were ongoing  and all features  of the product couldnt be 
guaranteed to remain into the future. Advisers were invited to withdraw  applications 
from new clients.
Again  in the same month AXA obtained  further  legal opinion  in response to specific 
points HMRC raised at meetings between itself and AXA in September  2015.
This led to AXA writing to HMRC  in October 2015 asking it to withdraw  their 
objections in light of its most recent legal opinion.
There then followed much discussion between  AXA and HMRC.  And AXA again 
sought legal  advice during this period.
In January 2016 AXA issued second  communications to advisers informing them  that 
HMRC continued to investigate elements of the FST and that registration of the new 
schemes was at their own risk.
However, because  of the continued HMRC investigations AXA closed the FST to 
new business in May 2016.
In June 2016 HMRC  advised AXA its investigations were continuing.
In July 2016 AXA obtained  further legal opinion. The finding of this was that the risk 
environment within the area of pension had changed and more notably that HMRC 
continued to investigate the FST position  even  after submission in October 2015 of 
legal opinion  and evidence that supported the Flexibility Option of the FST.
Later that month the Board  of AXA made  the decision that it was no longer 
appropriate to continue with the interpretation  that disproportionate  allocation  of 
growth was appropriate within the pension framework as it was at that time.
Taking account of this information, Im satisfied  AXA had been carefully considering the 
nature of the Flexibility Option for some time. It also appears to have engaged quite heavily 
with HMRC over the years to ensure it was being  compliant with HMRCs thinking and 
relevant regulation, as well as seeking legal opinion  when it felt prudent. I therefore dont 
think this decision was made quickly without careful consideration. Im satisfied it followed a 
genuine change  in AXAs  interpretation of applicable  pensions, tax or other law, legislation, 
regulation or industry codes of practice.  And while I appreciate this happened  around the 
same time as the sale to Phoenix  was progressing, I think this was mere coincidence rather 
than central to the decision  to withdraw the feature.
I am satisfied that previous legal opinion  obtained by AXA over the years was positive  in 
relation to the Flexibility Option of the FST. So, I think  it was reasonable for AXA to have 
advised its customers throughout  2015 and early  2016 that the scheme continued  to comply 
with HMRC pension  rules.  This reassurance came with the previous warnings that this 
feature couldnt  be guaranteed to always remain in place. And that it was only when 
confirmation was received  in June 2016  that HMRC continued with its investigations that led 
Ref: DRN03213695to the further legal opinion  in July 2016 and then the subsequent withdrawal of the feature.
Ive noted Mr Ws comments  that AXA should not have  withdrawn  the Flexibility  Option  
without fighting harder  to keep it. There was no requirement for AXA to do that - all that 
was required was a change in AXAs interpretation  of applicable  pensions,  tax or other law, 
legislation, regulation or industry codes of practice which  as Ive explained above, Im 
satisfied it met. However, that aside I do think the details set out above show  that AXA did 
fight to keep the Flexibility Option a part of the FST.  It engaged and challenged HMRC  and 
sought legal  advice in order to show why the option should remain in place. But in the end, 
through that process of engagement with HMRC, its interpretation of the pensions rules and 
regulations changed and it took a legitimate decision to withdraw the feature.
Insufficient warnings  that the option  could be withdrawn
Its already been  accepted by AXA that it didnt send the information to Mr Ws adviser in 
November 2015.  And Mr W has said that had he received  this information he would have 
considered doing something differently. I can appreciate this point however I need to 
consider whether it was reasonable that this was the only piece of information available  to 
Mr W at the time that communicated  the status of the Flexibility  Option  and how it wasnt 
guaranteed.
At the end of legal  advice report that Mr W relied upon it is stated that:
The specialist legal  advice  confirmed  that the more sophisticated version  (allocation  of 
growth on a discretionary  and disproportionate basis) is also not caught  by the anti- 
assignment/surrender provisions. Although there is the possibility of HMRC interpreting the 
anti-assignment/surrender provisions different  and claiming that the legislation  was designed  
to prevent this kind of scenario, the specialist legal advice confirmed that the possibility  of a 
successful challenge  was low; the product  was regarded as being  robust.
This report is based on our understanding of UK law and the practice  of HM Revenue  & 
Customs as at 3 September 2010. It assumes that tax rates,  and the tax treatment of 
contributions investments  and benefits will stay the same throughout the duration of a Family 
SunTrust Scheme. In practice  they may change at any time, even retrospectively. Any tax 
implications depends  on individual  circumstances.
While I appreciate the use of the word robust, it doesnt state anywhere in the report that the 
Flexibility Option was guaranteed. So while I can understand why Mr W took some 
reassurance from this, I think  someone  in his position  with his background would likely have 
understood that the report gave no guarantee. Further to this, I think there is a level of
Mr Ws own interpretation of this report. It seems to me that he chose to interpret this 
information as indicating that there was no risk the Flexibility Option would be withdrawn  
whereas the report  doesnt state  this anywhere.
Overall, in my view I think AXA did provide  accurate information regarding the status of the 
Flexibility Option and I say this because as already illustrated, AXA didnt receive legal 
advice that stated the Flexibility Option could be a concern or should be withdrawn until July 
2016 after which AXA made the decision to change its stance.
I also think  AXA did generally provide  sufficient  information that the Flexibility Option could 
be withdrawn by way of the terms and conditions of the scheme as well as the information 
AXA provided advisers in late 2015  and early 2016 concerning HMRCs  enquires.
Ref: DRN03213696I do however accept that AXA didnt provide all the information to Mr W and Ms G at the 
correct time, but I dont  think  this would have made a difference to Mr Ws actions.
Did this make a difference?
The information Ive seen tells me that Mr W had already transferred his existing pension 
benefits at the point  at which he should have received the email from AXA in November 
2015 alerting him to HMRCs enquires into the Flexibility Option. I appreciate he did this in 
readiness for the transfer to the FST. But given the terms and conditions state the option 
wasnt guaranteed,  as did the legal advice, I think it was clear that the option may not always  
have been a part of the FST. Therefore,  there  was risk in Mr W transferring his pension  
benefits before he had received confirmation from AXA that his application for the FST had 
been accepted. Furthermore,  FST aspect aside,  Mr W wasnt  a client  of AXAs FST at the 
point he transferred his existing  pensions so there was always  a chance  AXA wouldnt 
accept his application overall.
So in this respect I think AXA could have done more to inform Mr W specifically of HMRCs  
ongoing concerns into the Flexibility Option just after he had submitted his application form. 
But given Mr W transferred his pensions just after he applied for the FST, and before he 
received confirmation  his application had been  accepted and the FST had been set up
I dont think this has made a difference to where Mr W pension  benefits are now.
Overall therefore, in my view AXA provided  enough  clear information about the Flexibility 
Option and its status at the point Mr W started  to become interested  in it. I am satisfied the 
legal advice Mr W is relying on didnt  provide  a guarantee that the Flexibility Option would 
always remain in place.  I agree AXA made a mistake when it incorrectly  addressed  the email 
of November 2015 which would have informed Mr W of why his FST hadnt been registered  
yet and HMRC were delaying in doing  so, but at that point Mr W had already transferred his 
pension benefits  into a SIPP in readiness  to go in the FST. So even if he had received that 
email in November  2015  his benefits  would still have been  transferred.
Mr W and Ms G provided the following comments in response to my provisional findings:
1.Almost all the information  about  AXAs dealings with the HMRC set out in the 
provisional decision was new to me.  I feel that AXA, in order to treat its customers 
fairly, should have  provided far more  information  to existing members of the FST, as 
well as to me, at the time.   Furthermore, it should  have provided far more information 
in response to my complaint.  I understand that AXA might not have wanted to 
disclose privileged  legal advice, but it should have been possible to provide a lot 
more explanation without doing  so.  Apart from being necessary to satisfy  its 
regulatory obligations, it would have made AXA look less evasive and made  me less 
suspicious of its actions  and motives.  
2.In the first paragraph on the second page  of the provisional decision, it says, the 
email from January 2016 set out the information that was included in the November 
2015 letter,  but also stated that the FST had now been registered with HMRC  that 
month and that if it didnt hear anything further from Mr W it would assume he was 
content to proceed.   That is not correct.  The email on 5 January 2016  contains an 
italicised quotation  of four paragraphs  from the email of 2 November 2015 that 
begins, Important Note .   The words  mentioned  in the provisional decision appear in 
that italicised quotation.  That is not a statement made on 5 January 2016, merely a 
Ref: DRN03213697record that such a statement  was made  but not received on 2 November 2015. 
 Nowhere in the email  of 5 January 2016  is the implied offer not to proceed  renewed.  
3.In the third paragraph on the second  page of the provisional decision,  it says, it is 
noted that at this stage Mr W had already  transferred some of his pension benefits  
into an AXA SIPP pending the registration of his FST, at the beginning of November 
2015, not long after the application for the FST was submitted.  That misses  a 
critical point.  I have  checked with my financial adviser, and he has confirmed that the 
documentation to set up the FST and the transfer  forms for 4 pensions were  sent to 
AXA on 30 October 2015.  As the email of 5 January  2016 acknowledges, these 
forms were received by AXA on 2 November 2015,  the day on which the email  
should have been  sent to the adviser saying that AXA could not guarantee that all the 
then current features of the product would remain in the future, particularly drawing 
attention to the Flexibility Option in this regard, and giving  me the opportunity not to 
proceed.  The adviser then met me in person on 3 November  2015 to receive further  
signed documentation to pass on to AXA.  That would have been an ideal opportunity 
to make a decision to stop the process  but, as he hadnt  received the email,  we were 
not aware of it.  If the email had been sent to the right address on 2 November 2015, 
I could not only have elected  not to proceed  with the application to set up the FST but 
could also have  instructed AXA not to proceed with the transfers of pension  benefits 
from the schemes listed above.  This is a critical  point  and, in my view, demonstrates 
that the ombudsmans conclusion on this issue is flawed.  If the AXA email of 2 
November 2015 had been correctly  addressed,  I would have been notified  of the 
potential problems with the Flexibility Option  before  my FST application had been 
processed and, more importantly, before anything irrevocable had happened to my 
various pension  scheme benefits.  I have no doubt  at all that I would have either  
decided not to proceed at all or else decided to wait and see what  happened in the 
discussions with HMRC  before  going  ahead with such an important change   which 
would simply have  delayed the decision not to proceed at all.  I would never have  
transferred my various  pension benefits  out of the vehicles they were in without a 
good reason.   The FSTs Flexibility  Option was that reason and without a strong 
degree of confidence  (not, I accept, certainty) that the Flexibility Option would 
continue I would  have  left all my pensions as they were.  Had the 2 November 2015 
email reached my adviser, I would, at an absolute minimum, have put everything on 
hold pending  the resolution  of the future of the Flexibility Option and then decided not 
to proceed later in 2016.
4.In the first paragraph on the final page  of the provisional decision, it says,  I agree  
AXA made a mistake when it incorrectly addressed the email of November 2015  
which would have  informed Mr W of why his FST hadnt been registered yet and 
HMRC were  delaying in doing so, but at that point Mr W had already  transferred his 
pension benefits  into a SIPP in readiness  to go in the FST. So even if he had 
received that email  in November 2015  his benefits  would still have been transferred.  
This is not true, as I have  explained  above.  If the email  of 2 November  2015   the 
very date on which AXA received  my application  to join the FST and to transfer my 
pension benefits  from the existing vehicles  - had been correctly  addressed  then the 
transfers could  easily have been  stopped  and would have been.
5.In the third paragraph on the sixth page of the provisional decision,  it says, Further 
to this, I think there is a level of Mr Ws own interpretation of this report. It seems to 
me that he chose  to interpret this information as indicating that there  was no risk the 
Flexibility Option  would be withdrawn whereas the report doesnt state this 
Ref: DRN03213698anywhere.  I disagree with this characterisation of my interpretation of the material 
provided to me and I do not believe it is supported by the text of my complaint.  
I knew that AXA could  change the scheme  in accordance with its rules but I took 
considerable comfort  that a change to the Flexibility Option was unlikely  to happen 
because AXA had taken  legal advice from a highly-rated QC that supported the 
legality of the scheme.  At the time when  my adviser sent the forms to AXA to set up 
the FST and transfer  my pensions into it, I still believed that AXA believed that the 
Flexibility Option was robust.  I do not think the scheme could fairly have been  
called robust  when it was being actively investigated  by HMRC in the way described 
in the provisional  decision.  AXAs failure to bring this to my advisers attention in time 
for me to withdraw my application to join the FST and stop the transfers of my 
pension schemes  did make a difference  contrary to the conclusions  in the 
provisional decision.
AXA confirmed it had received the provisional  decision but made no further comments.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And while I have taken account of all the 
comments Mr W and Ms G have made in response  to my provisional findings, I am not 
persuaded to change  my initial outcome.
Mr W is correct that the offer to not proceed was not renewed in the email  to his adviser in 
January 2016.  However, I dont think this makes  a difference to the outcome of my final 
decisions. I say this in part because by then the FST had been registered  but also for the 
reasons I have explained further below, which are also in response to comments 3 and 4 
that Mr W has made.
I have thought carefully about the points Mr W has made about the timing of the transfer of 
his other  pensions and the failure to receive the important  email in November 2015. I have 
seen that in the complaint  letter Mr W submitted to this Service he stated that he sent the 
application forms for FST to AXA on 30 October  2015 and at the same time he gave notice  
to transfer assets  from four of his five then existing pensions arrangements  in readiness for 
the FST. He also provided details of when the transfer of each of those pensions were  
completed  3 December  2015, 29 January 2016, 9 February 2016 and 27 July 2016.
Mr W has argued that had he received the email in November  2015, as he should have, he 
would have stopped the transfer of those  pensions. I agree this is something that may have 
happened, and I can see that not receiving the email of November 2015 would have 
prevented Mr W from stopping the transfer  that completed in December 2015. However, the 
transfers from three of his pensions didnt complete until after his adviser had found out from 
AXA that the email  from November  had been  incorrectly addressed and also what  the 
information it contained was  that HMRC was making enquiries  into the flexibility  option.  But 
I havent seen  anything that confirms  that Mr W made any attempt to stop their transfers, so 
I am not convinced that receiving the email in November 2015  would  have caused  Mr W to 
have in fact done anything different because even  after he was provided with the information  
about HMRC in January 2016 he had the opportunity to stop the pension  transfers but he 
didnt.
I can appreciate why Mr W was satisfied by the legal report and especially the fact it was 
written by a QC who he was familiar with. I have no reason  to doubt this report  nor any of the 
Ref: DRN03213699others I cited  in my provisional  findings. I am satisfied they all were an accurate reflection of 
the position of the flexibility option at that point in time.  Taking comfort  from the report is 
reasonable, however the fact remains the flexibility option was not guaranteed  and that was 
really something Mr W should have borne in mind throughout the time he was dealing with 
the FST, AXA and the flexibility option.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 October  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0321369