K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs and Mr W used to hold with NRAM Limited. They 
surrendered possession of the property voluntarily in 2011,  which  was sold in 2012  for less 
than the balance outstanding on the mortgage.  Mrs and Mr W complain that NRAM:
took over the property before the agreed date and mis-handled  their personal items;
sold the property for less than its true value; and
is now pursuing  them unfairly for the resulting shortfall.
background 
By way of a provisional decision dated 23 January 2020, which  is attached below and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to determine 
this complaint, subject  to the further submissions of the parties by 6 February  2020.  Both 
parties have replied.
NRAM didnt have  anything further to add. Mrs and Mr W asked for more time to compile 
their reply, which we agreed to give them. We also agreed to provide a recording of the 
telephone call referenced  in my provisional decision.  After  a succession of technical 
difficulties prevented that from happening,  we instead provided Mrs and Mr W with a 
transcript of the call contents. Theyve  now provided  us with their response, the main thrust 
of which  I summarise below:
Having to compile their reply and send it to us by mobile phone has been tedious and 
difficult, putting them at a disadvantage;  theyre concerned  the case  wont  be looked  
at properly.
They reiterated that they had not received NRAMs letter of 25 January 2012; they found 
out about the sale price of the property in possession  from friends theyd stayed in touch 
with and deduced there was shortfall  that NRAM would  probably  pursue them  for. They 
also pointed out that information about  the sale would have been available  online.
If theyd received  the 25 January 2012 letter, they wouldnt have waited until March 
2013 to complain about the sale price. When they did receive what  they described as 
the frightening  letter about  the shortfall  in March 2018, they contacted NRAM promptly.
As far as the phone conversation was concerned,  it shouldnt be assumed from Mrs Ws 
remark that theyd  received the 25 January 2012 letter.  NRAM still had a gone away  
marker on their account  records  on 16 January 2012,  and the jurisdiction decision by my 
fellow ombudsman  highlighted several irregularities with NRAMs address records.
NRAM had admitted not posting  its reply  to the 2011 complaint, and yet I had decided  
that the 25 January 2012  letter  had been  posted and received. Letters of such  a 
personal and private nature should  be sent by recorded  delivery, as thats the only sure 
and safe way to deliver information.
Ref: DRN05970412There had never been any subsidence at the mortgaged  property.
Mrs and Mr W concluded their response by expressing their dismay at having to write  their 
reply by hand, photograph  the pages  and then send them in by email  from their mobile 
phone. Theyre  not filled with confidence  that the case  will be viewed in detail.
my findings
Before I deal with the underlying complaint, Ill address a number of procedural  issues; in 
particular Mrs and Mr Ws misgivings  about  how theyve been asked to present their 
response to the provisional decision.
Since the last week of March 2020,  as a consequence of the country-wide  lockdown  in 
place to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, the Financial  Ombudsman Service  has been 
unable to send  or receive post.  Weve  had to rely entirely on electronic methods of 
communication, such as email. Mrs and Mr Ws only means of using email is by phone,  and 
whilst that is manageable for updates  and short  messages,  we recognised  that it wouldnt be 
practical for them to compile a detailed reply  to the provisional decision that way. 
We suggested Mrs and Mr W prepare their reply by hand because  theyve done  that several 
times before now (the initial complaint to NRAM in March 2018 was a hand-written  letter)  
and seemed comfortable doing so. I appreciate their concern that the letters  pages might 
not be fully legible once photographed,  but I can assure them I was able to make out every 
word with perfect clarity.  The same applies to the letters Mrs and Mr W have attached,  and 
the annotations theyve  made on them. 
I also want to pick up and address  Mrs and Mr Ws very eloquently-expressed sense of 
grievance at being  made to feel as I was accusing  them of lying over the 25 January  2012 
letter. A senior manager, responding  to a complaint they made about that, has already  
reassured them that wasnt my intention; and Im happy to reinforce that myself.  But I think 
its important also to provide some  context here.
The very nature of complaint investigation means that I have to weigh up contrasting,  and 
sometimes conflicting, accounts of - often historic - events, along with the evidence  
presented in support of those accounts.  An unavoidable consequence  of that is that I must 
ultimately decide which is the more persuasive of the two, and inevitably that means one 
party is going to receive an unwelcome  (and sometimes uncomfortable) message.  
It doesnt follow that I have decided the disappointed party  hasnt been  truthful;  here, Ive no 
doubt Mrs and Mr W have brought their complaint  in good faith, based on their best 
recollections. Rather, it means  that Ive followed  the available evidence to a conclusion,  
which is what Im required  to do by the rules  of our service. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, Im not persuaded I need depart from 
my provisional conclusions. I know this will come as great disappointment to Mrs and Mr W; so 
Ill explain  why their further comments havent  persuaded me to change my mind. 
With one exception (which Ill return to in due course) Mrs and Mr Ws response to the 
provisional decision hasnt included any specific challenge to my findings on the first two 
parts of the complaint. Theyve focused  solely on the third part; that is, NRAMs pursuit of the 
shortfall; I do the same here.
Ref: DRN05970413I have no regulatory  power, so its not up to me to tell lenders generally  (or NRAM in 
particular) that they must  use recorded delivery mail for sensitive and important mail. Its up 
to lenders to make  that judgement themselves. Of course, if recorded delivery is used, it 
removes any doubt about whether mail has been  received  or not. But where, as here, 
recorded delivery hasnt been used, I have to take other evidence and circumstances into 
account and make a judgement on the likelihood of post having  been  sent and delivered.
The gone way marker that Mrs and Mr W have referenced from 16 January 2012  relates  to 
them having  left the mortgaged property,  and is the  likely reason NRAM didnt post out its 
final response to the 2011 complaint about  how Mrs and Mr Ws personal effects had been 
handled in the repossession. Its not the same marker  that cast doubt on the likelihood of 
Mrs and Mr W having received the final response  to the 2013 complaint, which prompted my 
ombudsman colleague  to decide that complaint wasnt time-barred. That marker was lodged  
in April 2013.
On further reflection, I agree  that it would have been possible for Mrs and Mr W to find out 
how much  the house had sold for by some  means other than the 25 January 2012 letter. 
And I agree it would have been possible for them, on finding out, to deduce  that a shortfall 
existed. But Mrs and Mr W could not have  found out from friends,  former  neighbours or the 
internet that NRAM intended seeking proposals from them for the shortfall.  They could only 
find that out if NRAM told them
Mrs and Mr W have  said it was probable that NRAM  would  pursue them for it, but when 
Mrs W was speaking to NRAM in 2018, she wasnt talking about the probability that 
something might have happened. What Mrs W said, when referring back to the 2013  
complaint about  the sale price achieved, was:
you sold it for less than it was worth; we put a complaint in about that when you were 
chasing us for a shortfall. 
NRAM did mention the existence of the shortfall,  albeit not expressly an intention  to pursue 
it, in its final response to the 2013  complaint about the sale price. But of course that letter  
was issued after the phone call took place.  With the best will in the world, I dont find it 
possible to interpret Mrs Ws comment in any other way than an assertion that NRAM was 
chasing them for the shortfall at the time of the complaint about the sale price.  That was in 
March 2013.
As I said a few paragraphs back, whilst Mrs and Mr W could have known about the sale 
price (and deduced the existence of a shortfall) without hearing directly  from NRAM, they 
could only have known  NRAM was seeking recovery proposals  for that shortfall  if they had 
heard from NRAM directly. So, whether by virtue  of the 25 January 2012  letter   or by some 
other follow-up means that neither party can now recall or evidence   I have to conclude  that 
by March 2013, Mrs and Mr W were  on notice that NRAM was looking to them for payment 
proposals on the shortfall. 
Ill make  one further observation about the time lenders are allowed for chasing  up shortfall 
debt. I mentioned in the provisional decision that the rules  of mortgage regulation allow  up to 
six years. But for completeness, I should also explain that the law allows up to twelve years, 
so clearly the timescale allowed  in law has yet to run out. In this case, Ive applied the more 
rigorous test required by regulation. 
Ref: DRN05970414But whilst the timescale set out by the regulator  is a defined period, and shorter  than that 
provided in law, I dont  consider this was designed  to deny lenders the ability  to reclaim  
debts where a consumers circumstances were  such that they either couldnt be found, were 
able to avoid contact by the lender or deny receipt of correspondence  if contact was made. 
Rather the timescale set was to ensure  a lender  took (or at least attempted  to take) action in 
a timely  manner. Bearing in the difficulties  with contact it faced from time to time,  not least  
due to the address irregularities that Mrs and Mr W have alluded  to, I dont think NRAM 
failed to do that. 
I said there was one exception to which  Id return on one of the other parts  of the complaint.  
Mrs and Mr W have  said, apropos the sale price, that the house  did not suffer  from 
subsidence. I didnt  say it had. The point I made is that when one of the parties  interested  in 
buying the property obtained  a valuation for a mortgage, the valuer apparently  reported  
evidence of subsidence, and that report affected the marketability of the property. 
There is no way of confirming or denying the accuracy of that, but in any event, it wasnt  
something NRAM said or did, or could control in any way. It was merely an opinion 
expressed by an unconnected party which informed the decisions of other  unconnected 
parties on whether  they were willing to buy the property, and if so, how much  for.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in 
part by ordering NRAM Limited  to pay Mrs and Mr W the £100 it originally intended offering 
them to settle  the 2011 complaint  about the handling  of their personal effects. I dont make 
any other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05970415CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage Mrs and Mr W used to hold with NRAM Limited. They surrendered 
possession of the property voluntarily in 2011, which  was sold in 2012 for less than the balance  
outstanding on the mortgage. Mrs and Mr W complaint that NRAM:
took over the property before the agreed date and mis-handled their personal  items;
sold the property for less than its true value; and
is now pursuing  them unfairly for the resulting shortfall.
background
NRAM initially  objected to us considering the first two points, arguing that Mrs and Mr W had waited 
too long under our rules to refer them to us. It had issued a final response in May 2013, giving  Mrs 
and Mr W six months to contact us if still unhappy. As theyd  only done so in 2018, after NRAM wrote 
asking for repayment proposals, NRAM  considered the other issues time-barred.
An ombudsman colleague  considered this in September 2019, and in a decision on jurisdiction, 
concluded that exceptional circumstances  justified  us setting aside the time limit and considering all 
three elements of the complaint. The case  then passed to one of our investigators to look into. She in 
turn set out her informal  view of the complaint in November 2019.  She said, in summary:
NRAM had made a reasonable offer of compensation (£100) for the way it handled 
Mrs and Mr Ws personal effects during the possession in 2011;
the available evidence didnt point to NRAM  having sold the property for less than it was worth;
the shortfall was legitimate (because the property hadnt been under-sold) but NRAM had taken 
more than six years  to notify the consumers it expected  repayment proposals  from them, and 
should therefore  write  off the residual  debt.
NRAM asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. It maintained that it had notified 
Mrs and Mr W of the shortfall,  and its intention to pursue them for it, immediately after the sale had 
completed in January 2012.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what has happened, and the available  
evidence is either incomplete, contradictory,  or both, I reach my conclusions on the basis of what  I 
think is most likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. Thats the same test that the 
courts use in civil disputes.
Ill deal with each of the three main complaint points in turn.
Ref: DRN05970416taking possession early  and mis-handling personal items
Ive looked at everything  both parties  have said, and like the investigator, consider that NRAM  made  a 
fair offer to resolve this complaint at the time it was made. I appreciate Mrs and Mr W werent aware  
of that offer when it was made  (for reasons that were covered in my ombudsman colleagues 
jurisdiction decision and dont need revisiting  here). But theyre  aware  of it now,  and I consider it fair.
NRAM sold the property  in possession  for less than it was worth
NRAMs duty was to sell the property for the best price achievable within  a reasonable period  of time 
(my italics).  It may be a rather subjective test but the approach we take, in essence,  is that a lender 
shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus potentially 
adding further to the borrowers interest costs) to achieve  an unrealistically  high price.
Its about finding  a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are required to obtain 
two independent valuations from suitably-qualified professionals, and then to market  the property with a 
view to achieving a selling  price at, or close  to, the valuations provided by those independent  
professionals. In the case of Mrs and Mr Ws property, Im satisfied thats what NRAM did.
The highest  of the valuations NRAM  received was £124,500, and the property was marketed in 
September 2011 with an asking price for £124,500, but was reduced in stages  over a period of 
months. I understand an offer was received and accepted, but NRAM s notes  from the time record 
that when the property was valued for the buyers  mortgage,  it was declared unsuitable security for a 
mortgage due to evidence of subsidence. This effectively limited the property to cash buyer, and it 
was eventually sold on 23 January 2012 for £95,000. 
Given the wider circumstances, I think that decision was reasonable.  Ultimately, any property is only 
worth what someone  is willing  to pay for it at any given time.  Given the timeframe,  I consider the sale 
was achieved at the best price achievable, bearing in mind the restricted  market for the property and 
the fact that the mortgage  continued to accrue interest until the sale was completed.
My remit doesnt  extend  to questioning  the content  of the reports NRAM relied  on. These were the 
professional opinions of the parties  NRAM  was required to consult. It was entitled to rely on those  
opinions when  deciding how much to try and sell the property for. 
NRAMs attempts to recover  the shortfall
This is arguably the most contentious part of the complaint. The rules of mortgage regulation  say that a 
lender has six years  from the date a shortfall is crystallised to inform a consumer that the debt exists 
and that it intends pursuing the consumer for that debt. Here,  the shortfall was crystallised on 23 
January 2012, the date the property was sold in possession. 
That means that NRAM had until 23 January 2018 to let Mrs and Mr W know that the shortfall  existed 
and that it intended seeking  repayment proposals from them.  So what I have to decide  is whether 
NRAM achieved that. Ive seen a number  letters from NRAM to Mrs and/or Mr W; each of which made  
reference to the shortfall; Ill deal with each of them in turn starting with the most  recent.
NRAM wrote to Mrs W on 5 March 2018, and to Mr W on 6 March  2018;  these are the letters  that 
prompted the complaint Im dealing with here. However, both of these, and all subsequent  ones,  were 
issued after 23 January  2018;  that is, more than six years after the debt was crystallised,  so they can 
neither establish nor preserve NRAMs right to pursue  the debt.
Further back  from that, NRAM referenced the shortfall in the final response it issued  on 13 May 2013 
addressing Mrs and Mr Ws first attempt to complain that the property had been sold for less than it was 
worth. However, theres considerable doubt about  whether they ever received that letter,  as it was sent 
to an address from which they had moved. 
Ref: DRN05970417Thats the reason my ombudsman colleague decided  we shouldnt apply the six-month time limit in our 
rules that would otherwise  have prevented us from considering the first two parts of the complaint. Its 
appropriate that I be consistent in my treatment of that letter when dealing with the merits of the 
complaint. I give Mrs and Mr W the same benefit of the doubt my colleague gave  them when they said 
they didnt receive the letter of 13 May 2013. So that letter also cant  establish or preserve NRAMs 
right to pursue the shortfall debt.
That leaves one more letter  to consider; it was dated 25 January 2012 (two days  after the sale 
completed and the debt crystallised) and it informed Mrs and Mr W of the sale price,  the resulting 
shortfall and the intention to pursue it. On first glance, then, it would  seem that this letter  did establish 
and preserve  NRAMs right to pursue the shortfall. 
However, Mrs and Mr W also deny having received that letter, and bearing in mind it was sent to the 
same address as the 13 May 2013 letter, our investigator had her doubts it had reached them. This was 
the basis  on which she recommended the shortfall be written off. This is the very crux of the matter,  and 
Ive given  it a very great  deal of thought. Having  done so, however, Ive reached a very different  
conclusion. I think Mrs and Mr W most likely did receive  the 25 January 2012 letter; Ill explain why.
First, the doubts about whether Mrs and Mr W still lived at that address only came to light in 2013, 
when post was returned marked not known  at this address. So the reason  for us concluding  that the 
13 May 2013 letter  didnt  reach  Mrs and Mr W couldnt be used to reach  the same conclusion about the 
25 January 2012 letter
Secondly, its not clear  to me how Mrs and Mr W would  have known  to make  the 2013 complaint about  
the sale price  achieved for the property unless theyd received the 25 January  2012 letter telling them  
what the sale price was. 
Those points  already gave me real doubt, but what confirmed my view that Mrs and Mr W must  have 
received the 25 January  2012 letter was when  I listened to a recording of a phone conversation Mrs W 
held with NRAM in 2018 when the current complaint was getting  underway. In that call, Mrs W said 
you sold it for less than it was worth; we put a complaint in about  that when you were chasing us for 
a shortfall .
(my emphasis)
What that tells me is that by the time Mrs and Mr W complained in 2013 about the sale price, they 
already knew  there  was a shortfall and NRAM had expressed an intention  to pursue  them  for it. For 
them to know that means they most  likely  did receive the 25 January 2012 letter. 
Putting all of the above together, my overall conclusion is that the shortfall  NRAM is seeking is a valid 
debt for which  it can fairly hold Mrs and Mr W liable, and can fairly seek  repayment proposals  from them.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 
6 February 2020 my provisional decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part by ordering 
NRAM Limited to pay Mrs and Mr W the £100  it originally  intended offering them to settle the 2011  
complaint about the handling of their personal  effects.  I dont intend making any other order or award.
Ill review my provisional decision after 6 February 2020, or sooner than that if both parties confirm  
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0597041