K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the assignment of an investment bond. He says the way Steven Day 
arranged this meant that he incurred a greater tax liability than he would otherwise have
done.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision of 13 December  2018. I attach a copy and it forms part of this decision.
Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision and said I had misunderstood the nature of the 
complaint. 
In summary  he said:
He agrees with my description of how the bond clusters were to be disposed  of.
What needs  to be accounted  for is his tax credit losses, plus a small amount of 
additional tax paid, against  his brothers tax saving.
Mr Ds email of 5 December 2016 was wrong and has, in effect, deprived him of the 
opportunity to negotiate the tax position with his brother.
Steven Day said:
Regardless of the clusters held the beneficial  ownership of the plan is 50/50 as per 
the wishes of Mr Ss mother.
Any tax balancing  is outside its involvement.
Its invoice hasnt  been settled and it asks if we can help in getting  Mr S to settle  this.
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S has said in response  to my provisional decision. 
It hasnt caused  me to change my overall  conclusion. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr S says he accepts that the bond  was disposed of as agreed at the time, in other  words  
with one cluster being assigned  to Mr Ss brother and two clusters each to Mr S and his wife. 
But he says the problem has arisen  because  he hasnt since  been able to agree with his 
brother the intended balancing of the tax position  between them.
Mr S blames Steven Day for this. He thinks Steven Day should have drawn up an agreement 
between him and his brother  to set out how the money should be apportioned after the bond  
was sold. He also thinks Steven Days email of 5 December 2016  exacerbated the problem 
Ref: DRN04438962because it said the value of the bond was split equally. This has led his brother  to believe 
there is no further balancing to be done.
The first thing to say is that I agree  with Mr S that the email  of 5 December 2016  could have  
been clearer. It refers  to the beneficial ownership of the bond and the 50/50 split between Mr 
S and his brother,  but it doesnt  mention the intended apportionment of tax liabilities  between  
them. 
But that doesnt mean that I should uphold this complaint. The 5 December email didnt 
change the underlying position or what was agreed  between Mr S and his brother at the 
time. It didnt change the beneficial ownership of the bond.
It has to be remembered that Steven Day was acting for Mr S and his brother jointly. He 
advised a course  of action to which they both agreed. That course of action was then put 
into effect.
From the evidence Ive seen it seems clear that Mr S and his brother were aware there  
would need to be some  financial  adjustments between them to ensure the tax liabilities were 
apportioned appropriately between them. Thats referred to in Steven Days email of 10 
March 2016, the relevant extract of which I set out in my provisional decision.
But I havent seen  anything to suggest  that Steven Day undertook  to draw up a formal 
written agreement between them. And I dont think it was Steven Days responsibility  to 
arbitrate after the event.
Mr S and his brother appear now to be at an impasse. But, as I said in my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that has arisen because of something Steven Day did (or did not 
do) wrong.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr S wants and that hell be disappointed. But its still my view 
that the matter  is best sorted  out between Mr S and his brother, with the help of the court if 
necessary.
So for the reasons given in this and in my provisional decision I dont  uphold  this complaint.
I dont have the power to require a consumer  to pay outstanding costs. It will be for Steven 
Day to decide whether to pursue that further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04438963provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about the assignment  of an investment bond. He says the way Steven Day arranged this meant 
that he incurred  a greater tax liability than he would otherwise  have done.
background
Following their mothers death  Mr S and his brother asked  Steven  Day for advice about disposing of various 
bonds and mitigating their liability to possible chargeable gains tax.
This complaint  is about  an off-shore bond held in trust by Mr S and his late mother.  The bond was divided into 
five policy clusters of equal  value.
In accordance with the trust the bond was to be split equally between Mr S and his brother.  Following advice from 
Steven Day it was agreed that the bond  would be further split so that Mr S and his wife would take a quarter 
share each and those shares would be disposed of over two tax years.
In the event one cluster was assigned to Mr Ss brother  and two each  were assigned to Mr S and his wife. The 
clusters were then cashed  in and the proceeds  paid to the estates solicitors pending agreement between Mr S 
and his brother  as to how the money should be distributed.
Mr S says hes been  advised that chargeable  events occurred on the disposal of each cluster and that as a result  
he and his wife will need to pay tax on gains made on the disposal  of 80% of the bond (four clusters of equal 
value) rather  than 50% as intended. He says his brother will only need to pay tax on gains made on 20% of the 
bond. In effect he believes  his brother has been given a tax advantage and that this should be reflected  in any 
future distribution.  He says it hasnt been  possible to reach agreement with his brother  on this.
Mr S holds Steven  Day responsible  for the present situation. He says the way it arranged for the clusters to be 
assigned didnt reflect what  was intended. He also thinks Steven Day should have  made him aware that 
disposing of his share of the bond could have  implications for other benefits he was receiving.
Steven Day says the assignment of the clusters didnt affect the beneficial ownership of the underlying  funds. It 
was always intended the bond  be split 50/50 between  the brothers. The assignment  was arranged  in the way it 
was because  it wasnt possible to split five clusters  equally. 
This complaint  was investigated  by one of our adjudicators. He thought it should be upheld in part. He didnt  think 
Steven Day was responsible for Mr S losing benefits, but he did think it should indemnify him against  any tax 
disadvantage suffered by it not ensuring the bond was split as intended.
Neither Mr S nor Steven  Day was entirely happy with this outcome and the matter was then passed  to me to 
consider further. I asked for some further  information  and Im grateful to the parties for their help in providing  this.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having  considered the further information obtained, Ive reached  a different  conclusion to 
our adjudicator. Im minded  not to uphold this complaint. I know that will be a disappointment to Mr S but I hope 
hell understand why when I explain.
The first thing  to say is that I agree with our adjudicator  that Steven Day isnt responsible  for Mr S losing  tax 
credits and other  benefits as a result of disposing of the bond. Im satisfied that the decision had already been 
taken to dispose of the bond (along with other  assets) and that Steven Day was engaged specifically  to achieve  
that in the most tax-efficient  way.
So Im not going to uphold that part of the complaint.
It also seems  to me that Mr S doesnt disagree with Steven  Days advice about how the bond should be divided 
and disposed of, that is that Mr Ss share should  be split between him and his wife and that their respective  
shares should be disposed of over two tax years.  
Ref: DRN04438964Mr Ss grievance has arisen out of the way Steven  Day arranged for the clusters to be assigned. 
This is where Ive, provisionally, reached a different  view from our adjudicator. 
Its clear from the paperwork Ive seen  that there was a lot of discussion and correspondence between the parties 
about this towards the end of the 15/16 tax year. There was some urgency  to act quickly if disposals were  to be 
made either side of the tax year. 
The way the bond was divided into clusters was causing difficulty. The clusters were of equal value and the 
product provider had said the individual  clusters  couldnt be split. So it seems  that however the bond was 
assigned there would have to be some adjustment between Mr S and his brother.
At this point  it seems the brothers  were  working  together with Steven Day to keep their respective tax liabilities as 
low as possible. Theres mention of their co-operation to help achieve this, adjusting payments between them 
where it would be to their mutual  benefit.
Against this background Steven  Day suggested assigning one cluster to Mr Ss brother and two each to Mr S and 
his wife. In separate  emails to each brother on 10 March Steven Day explained the rationale for this was that Mr 
S and his wife could then dispose of one cluster  each, each  side of the tax year.
In commenting on the tax position Steven  Day said there would be no real difference  apart from the amount of 
tax that needs to be accounted  for across  you and [brother]what we would then need  to do is apportion the 
tax liability across  yours  and [brothers] share to ensure  that tax liabilities are calculated correctly.  
The bond was duly assigned in this way and the clusters were cashed over the two tax years.
It isnt entirely clear why it hasnt since  been possible to agree a split of the proceeds between Mr S and his 
brother. I understand they are no longer communicating. The money is still held by the estate solicitors. 
Thats very sad, but I dont think Steven  Day could have  foreseen  that happening or that it happened because of 
something Steven Day did wrong.
I know that Mr S would like Steven Day to resolve this situation between him and his brother. Hed like his brother 
to be asked to show us his tax returns. Steven  Day isnt in a position to do that, and neither  are we. We cant  
require third parties  to co-operate with us or to send  us their papers. Only a court  can do that. 
I could only fairly uphold this complaint if I were persuaded that Steven Day had done something  wrong and that 
Mr S had lost out as a result of that. Im not currently persuaded thats the case.
The issues  complained  about  appear to have  arisen due to a breakdown in communication between Mr S and his 
brother. I dont  think Steven  Day can be held responsible for that. The matter is, in my view, best sorted out 
between Mr S and his brother, with the help of the court  if necessary.
my provisional  decision
Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN0443896