K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains about the service it received from National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) concerning a chargeback request. C is represented  in this complaint by 
Mr G, a director of the company. 
background
C has an account with NatWest. In 2017  Mr G, on behalf of C, commissioned L, a limited 
company, to build a website and other printed  material for the business. Mr G said L didnt 
complete the website  to his satisfaction  and both parties agreed to go elsewhere.  But he 
said L failed to send over the files for the website despite agreeing  to do so and failed to 
respond to his communication. So he asked NatWest to refund £2,277.59, that C had paid L, 
through the chargeback service. 
Mr G said that after two and a half months the bank retrieved the money. But L contested the 
chargeback and so NatWest re-debited the money from Cs account. Mr G complained to 
NatWest. He said he hadnt received communications  and information  relating to the 
chargeback which he couldve  responded to in order to progress his claim. He also 
complained about NatWests customer  service.  
NatWest said it had handled the chargeback claim appropriately but it accepted that its 
customer service  wasnt  what it shouldve been.  It paid C £50 compensation and £10.80 in 
call costs. Mr G wasnt  happy with this response and brought Cs complaint to this service. 
The investigator thought NatWests offer of compensation  was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. She agreed that NatWest could have started  the chargeback process  sooner 
and explained  it more clearly, but said the bank had done what  was expected when 
processing a chargeback  claim. 
Mr G, on behalf of C, didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr G but, having done  so, I find I agree with the investigator. 
Id like to reassure Mr G that I have read all of the submissions but if I dont  respond  to every 
point this is not because I havent  carefully  considered it but because I dont believe I need 
to in order to come  to what I believe is the right outcome. 
The chargeback system  does not give consumers legal rights. But we consider it good 
practice for a bank  to raise a chargeback  where  there is a reasonable prospect of it 
succeeding. If I am to tell NatWest to refund all or part of the costs  of the service, I must be 
satisfied that the bank  acted incorrectly in the way it made a chargeback claim under the 
chargeback regulations. 
The card scheme is an international organisation which facilitates  payments  between 
different banks in the same and different countries. Its regulations seek to maintain a 
balance between merchants supplying goods  and services, customers  of these merchants, 
and the banks acting for each of them. In the case of the purchase and supply of services,  
Ref: DRN05793662the regulations  only permit a chargeback to the extent allowed by the rules  of the 
chargeback scheme
Its important to note that Im not able to reverse the chargeback decision  itself, nor is 
NatWest. That is the role of the card scheme 
NatWest has accepted that its customer service wasnt as it shouldve been.  So I must 
decide what impact this service has been  on the chargeback  claim and whether NatWest  
shouldve done  more.
chargeback claim
C is making a chargeback  claim for four payments it made to L. This claim is bound by the 
rules provided by the card scheme.  
Although I am unable  to reverse the decision on the chargeback claim, in order  to look at 
any impact of NatWests actions I must determine if it acted correctly or incorrectly. And if it 
acted incorrectly is it more  likely than not that the claim would have succeeded if it acted  
correctly.
Ive looked at the available correspondence  between C and L from the time when C 
commissioned the website and materials. There appears to be no formal  contract  with terms 
and conditions attached. Ive seen  an email from C outlining the details discussed at a 
previous meeting between the parties. So its not clear to me exactly what should have been  
delivered and what would  indicate the service had been fulfilled. But some  of the specific 
items Mr G described were delivered  so the likely  chargeback  code for this claim would be 
under 
services or goods not as described or when delivered from the merchant the 
goods arrived broken or could not be used for the intended purpose or did not 
conform to their description. Or that the merchant did not honour the terms and 
conditions of the contract. 
There appears to be no written contract and without it its not possible to say with any degree  
of certainty that what was provided for the website  and the printed materials wasnt  what was 
agreed. 
Mr G has said that when  the relationship broke  down between  C and L, L failed to provide  
the website files needed for a new company to take over the delivery of the website 
therefore L had not provided the service. And it failed to respond  to communications. So Mr 
G started  the chargeback process.  At this point NatWest re-credited  Cs account pending a 
response from L. The chargeback  was disputed and the dispute reason given by L was that 
it had provided the login details which gave access to the files and therefore the product was 
delivered. Its not clear  to me when  this access was given to C.
Mr G has said C didnt receive  these files prior to the chargeback  claim and hes had to ask 
another company to build  the site from scratch. He also said delivery of the website files 
would be standard  industry practice.  While I dont dispute this is the case I dont think  its 
safe to rely on this to determine whether the chargeback would have been likely to succeed. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect the bank or card scheme to rely on this specific  
knowledge in the absence  of a formal agreement. And although it appears the files were 
delivered after the claim was started  this doesnt mean the claim should succeed. 
Ref: DRN05793663In the absence of a formal agreement detailing exactly what  needed to be delivered NatWest  
has had to rely on the evidence provided by both L and C to determine whether to send the 
claim to arbitration for a final say by the card scheme. And Im satisfied the evidence  from L 
indicates access to the files was provided even though  this may have occurred after the start 
of the chargeback process. So I agree with the investigator that the chargeback,  within the 
rules provided, would likely fail. So I dont think it was unreasonable of NatWest  not to send 
the claim to arbitration.  
As the investigator  has noted the original dispute is between C and L. C is free to pursue 
action against  L through the courts  if it still believes  L has not fulfilled its part of the 
agreement. The standards  set within the card scheme rules  for chargeback  may be different 
to what may be required to be delivered  in law.
customer service
Mr G has complained that NatWest delayed  the start of the chargeback process, didnt  tell 
him the money  would  be taken back if L objected  and didnt do enough  to let him know  the 
chargeback hadnt  been  successful. 
The chargeback claim was made within the allowed timescales. So while  I understand the 
delay was frustrating  for Mr G and C I cant say that this delay has materially  affected the 
likelihood the chargeback  wouldve been successful. 
NatWest has also provided  call notes  which illustrate that it was explained to Mr G that the 
funds would be re-debited. As the investigator explained its standard industry practice to 
debit the funds once the chargeback  has been  defended. Mr G has said he didnt receive  
correspondence relating to his chargeback claim and L disputing the chargeback. While I 
accept that Mr G may not have received the email,  which may have required a response,  Im 
satisfied it was sent on 9 March  and that it was sent to the email address for Mr G on record. 
There is a record of this action in the contact notes and Ive seen a copy  of the email.
Im sympathetic to the fact that this is not the news Mr G or C would like but Im satisfied that 
£50, plus call costs, is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0579366