K822xcomplaint
Mr L says AXA Insurance  UK Plc didnt give him a courtesy car when  he made a claim on 
his motor insurance policy after an accident. He says its service in general  was very poor. 
background 
Mr L reported the accident  to AXA on 1 August 2018. The claim wasnt  settled for three 
months. Meanwhile, Mr L says he didnt  get a courtesy car or updates on the claim. He says 
he had to chase  AXA by email and phone, and that often it didnt respond. Mr L faced long 
waiting times  on hold, so his phone bill was much higher than usual. After  he got a total loss 
payment from AXA, Mr L cancelled the policy and didnt pay the remaining premium.
AXA accepted that it hadnt contacted  Mr L enough  and that it hadnt replied to his emails. It 
also accepted  that there  was a long delay in settling the claim. It offered Mr L two weeks  
alternative travel benefit at £15 per day. It also offered him £200 for the inconvenience and 
distress hed faced. Mr L wasnt happy with AXAs  offer.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ls complaint. She thought the offer of £200 
compensation was fair. But she queried the payment offered to him for travelling costs.  She 
thought it should be paid from the date Mr L made his claim to the date a settlement offer 
was made.  She also thought AXA should  pay for Mr Ls calls to it, subject to evidence.  But 
the investigator said Mr L should pay the rest of the policy premium. She thought  it was 
owed to AXA as Mr L had made  a claim on the policy that AXA had paid. 
AXA agreed to pay a sum towards Mr Ls phone bill. It said initially there was a query about 
Mr Ls driving licence, so the claim was on hold for a few weeks. It said he wouldnt have 
been entitled to a courtesy car during that time. But it said it had agreed to increase the 
number of days hed be paid for travel.  It said it had now paid Mr L £15 per day from the date 
the claim was cleared  to go ahead in mid-August 2018 to the date of the settlement offer. 
Shortly afterwards, AXA agreed with the investigator  that Mr L should be paid for travel from 
the date of the claim, as he hadnt done  anything  wrong to cause the initial delay.
Mr L accepted  the proposed settlement terms except the £200 compensation.  And he still 
refused to pay the rest of the premium. The investigator asked AXA if it would consider 
raising the compensation. AXA said Mr L had already  been  paid more than he was entitled 
to under the policy.  The investigator asked for clarification of that and for a copy  of the policy  
document. AXA didnt respond. As there was no agreement, the complaint  was passed to 
me for review. AXA later sent us the policy document.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its right for Mr L to say he shouldnt have to pay the remaining premium on the 
policy. In his opinion,  AXA hasnt honoured it. But I dont think Mr L has taken into account 
that AXA dealt  with the loss of his car under the policy by paying  him for it. And it also dealt 
with the other drivers claim against the policy. So I think  Mr L has benefitted from the 
policys cover and is obliged to pay AXA the remaining  premium.  
AXA has accepted  it provided poor service to Mr L in terms of delay in dealing  with the claim 
and its failure to communicate with him properly.  That caused  Mr L inconvenience  and 
Ref: DRN05813232worry. It meant he was without a car for almost three months. And it also resulted in a higher 
than usual phone bill for him, due to the number of calls he had to make to AXA.   
Mr Ls policy says a courtesy car will be provided  for a maximum of 14 days if a cars being 
repaired. But it says if a consumers cars written-off,  the courtesy car will be available  until a 
settlement offers  made. A courtesy car wasnt appropriate in this case, as Mr Ls car wasnt 
being repaired. As an alternative,  the policy offers alternative travelling costs, at up to £15 
per day, but it says thats for a maximum of 14 consecutive days.
Mr L argued that he should  be paid the alternative travelling costs from the date of his claim 
to the date the total loss settlement offer was made. AXA agreed to that following the 
investigators intervention.  I think that was reasonable.  Although the policy  wording doesnt 
specifically deal with the point, the alternative travel  cost payment  was an alternative  to a 
courtesy car. So I think its fair that it shouldnt  be limited to 14 days. AXA has offered Mr L 
£1,350 in total for the period he was without a car, which he said hes happy to accept.
Mr L also told us hed accept AXAs offer of £46.33  towards his phone  bill. So the only issue  
remaining is AXAs offer of £200 compensation. Mr L said at one point  that as AXA had 
initially offered him £200 compensation for 15 days inconvenience,  it should increase the 
offer to over £1,000  for three months  inconvenience. But I think AXA made it clear in its final 
response letter to Mr L that the sum was intended to cover  the full three-month period.  
I dont think AXAs made it clear why it thinks Mr L has been  offered more than hes entitled  
to under the policy.  The cost of calls isnt covered by it. But we usually expect any actual 
losses incurred by a consumer due to an insurers poor service to be reimbursed. 
In my opinion, AXAs  offer of £200  compensation for distress  and inconvenience is an 
adequate sum, in addition  to the other  sums it has agreed to pay. I think  its in line with the 
amount wed have awarded  if AXA hadnt  already proposed it.  So I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to require AXA to pay more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that AXA should settle  this complaint, as it has already agreed to do, by 
paying Mr L £200 compensation, £46.33 towards his phone  bill and £1,350  in total for 
alternative travel costs. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0581323