K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D1 complain that K, an appointed representative of Intrinsic Wealth Limited, 
didnt act fairly or reasonably  when dealing with their mortgage  application.  They want  
compensation.
background 
Mr and Mrs D1 had two mortgages; one for their own home and the other over a property 
occupied by their relatives, Mr and Mrs D2. Mr and Mrs D1 wanted to remortgage  their home 
and borrow more to consolidate a debt (before the mortgage for their home  moved onto the 
standard variable  rate SVR in August  2017). They also wanted  the issue  of the mortgage 
over the property occupied by Mr and Mrs D2 resolved before that mortgage moved onto the 
SVR too in April 2017.
Mr and Mrs D1 and Mr and Mrs D2 say that they instructed K, an appointed  representative  of 
Intrinsic, to act as the mortgage  broker for everyone. They  said that K advised that the 
solution to the problem  of the mortgage  over the second property was for Mr and Mrs D2 to 
buy the property  from Mr and Mrs D1 with a mortgage recommended  by K before the SVR 
applied to the original mortgage.  They also said that K said he could arrange a mortgage for 
Mr and Mrs D1s property  before the original one moved onto the SVR, including  the extra  
borrowing.
But K failed to put in place any mortgage for Mr and Mrs D1 or Mr and Mrs D2. Eleven 
months passed, and despite K saying  that all was in hand, ultimately nothing was achieved. 
Mrs D1 and Mrs D2 met K and his colleague  several times to progress  matters  but were 
misled as to progress. K offered  to put things  right financially whenever dissatisfaction  was 
expressed during  the process. Both mortgages  moved onto the SVR and increased  monthly  
payments had to be paid.
Mr and Mrs D1 (and their relatives) complained to Intrinsic.  It said that Ks communication  
and service hadnt been good enough, but that it didnt have a formal  agreement to work on 
behalf of Mr and Mrs D1. No application  was made  and no product was recommended  to 
them. Intrinsic pointed  out that many months had passed since Mrs D1 first met with K until 
they complained   it thought that they shouldve  realised earlier nothing was going  to 
happen, particularly  as there  was no formal agreement in place with K. It offered £250  
compensation for the lack of service provided.
Mr and Mrs D1 complained to us and said that they were going to sort out the mortgage  for 
their home themselves while their relatives  sorted  out a mortgage  to buy the second  property 
from them. The investigators  view was that £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
actions of K was fair and reasonable. But she also said that Mr and Mrs D1 had been 
repeatedly told by K that it was acting  on their behalf to get them  a new mortgage  and 
promised to compensate  them for the financial loss caused by its delay. The investigator 
noted that K even arranged for a locum to deal with Mr and Mrs D1 during  a period he 
wouldnt be able to assist  them,  so there  was no reason for Mr and Mrs D1 to go elsewhere,  
despite the delay. She said that Intrinsic  should  also pay for the difference  in interest paid on 
the SVR compared to the new mortgage  now in place with a rate of 2.09% (with additional 
8% interest).  The investigator didnt  think  the extra interest paid due to the delay in the 
consolidation of debt should be paid as while  the interest rate was higher, the timeframe of 
repayment was quicker  than a mortgage. Nothing was said about the second mortgage  over 
the property occupied by Mr and Mrs D2.
Ref: DRN00010802Intrinsic disagreed. It said that there  was no agreement between  Mr and Mrs D1 and K, and 
K didnt  carry out a fact find or make a mortgage application on their behalf. It denied that the 
locum was anything  to do with Intrinsic  and said K had fabricated  the alleged  progress being 
made. It didnt think it should  pay anything for the financial loss suffered by Mr and Mrs D1. 
Mr and Mrs D1 also disagreed with the investigators view and felt the compensation was 
insufficient.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes; my role is to ensure consumers are 
put back into the position that they shouldve been in if the mistake hadnt  happened.  I also 
must focus  on Mr and Mrs D1 alone; their relatives are being dealt with separately by this 
service.
In Mr and Mrs D1s case, theres no doubt at all that Ks communication and service was 
poor. Its also relevant  that Mr and Mrs D1 had experience of mortgages   they had two 
mortgages and werent  first time buyers.  But K was repeatedly telling them that he was 
making progress in respect  of both mortgages, and even sent them  a Key Facts Illustration 
for a new mortgage  for their home in November 2017. Even Intrinsic describes Ks emails  as 
fabrications. It isnt justifiable in my view for a business to suggest that because its 
appointed representative has lied and misled  consumers, it isnt responsible.
Intrinsic has pointed out the lack of a formal  agreement  between K and Mr and Mrs D1, but 
this doesnt mean that it can wash its hands  of the situation caused by the actions of K. Its 
clear from the volume of emails from K that he told Mr and Mrs D1 (and their relatives) that 
he was acting on behalf of all of them. Whether  or not a formal fact find was carried  out, and 
I think its likely that something  of this nature happened due to the number of meetings and 
information K had about the financial position  of all involved, K told Mr and Mrs D1 he was 
acting on their behalf to get a mortgage  and kept the fiction going for months.
I can see Intrinsics  point  that there were signs not all was well before April 2018. The failure 
to actually progress  matters was clear  to Mr and Mrs D1 as early  as September  2017, after 
the mortgage for their property went onto the SVR. But K repeatedly  told Mr and Mrs D1, in 
writing, that he would compensate for all losses caused by his delays. He gave reasons why 
there were delays which, while convenient, werent  unbelievable. The involvement  of the 
locum clearly gave Mr and Mrs D1 confidence.
I think Ks entire  conduct in this matter has been  unfair and unreasonable, and could be 
described as dishonest.  Intrinsic is responsible for his actions as K represented himself as 
acting on behalf  of Mr and Mrs D1 in mortgage matters.  Compensation for both financial and 
non-financial loss is fair and reasonable and I disagree with the investigators view.
Ref: DRN00010803Dealing with financial loss first, theres  two mortgages in the names of Mr and Mrs D1 which  
moved onto the SVR due to Ks unfair  and unreasonable conduct. The investigator is correct  
in my view in saying that the financial loss in respect  of the mortgage for Mr and Mrs D1s 
home should be paid by Intrinsic in full between  the date that they moved onto the SVR in 
August 2017 until the date they took out the new mortgage in April 2018. This will require 
Intrinsic to calculate the additional interest they paid during that period and add simple 
interest at 8% from the date of each  payment  to the date of refund. But it must be borne in 
mind that Mr and Mrs D1 borrowed more with the new mortgage to consolidate their debts 
and this wouldve  happened earlier if K had acted fairly and reasonably. I think the fair and 
reasonable redress in this case  would  be for Intrinsic to work out how much  Mr and Mrs D1 
paid in interest between the date I think the new mortgage shouldve been  in place (which is 
August 2017 as it was a remortgage)  and the date that it was, and the interest they would 
have paid if the mortgage had been in place  at the right time. Intrinsic should refund the 
difference and pay 8% simple interest on the refund.
Theres also the issue of the second  mortgage over Mr and Mrs D2s home,  but in the name 
of Mr and Mrs D1. Again,  Ks actions towards  all four consumers meant that the mortgage  
stayed longer on the SVR; had he conducted himself honestly or competently, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D2 wouldve got their mortgage much sooner (which  is 
what happened in the end) and bought the property off Mr and Mrs D1. But it was 
Mr and Mrs D1 who suffered the financial loss as they were  liable for the mortgage 
payments, and K accepted the instructions to act on behalf of all four consumers. I think  its 
fair and reasonable to expect this mortgage to have  ended  by September  2017  (about four 
months after first meeting  K).
In all the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable for Intrinsic to pay the extra  mortgage  
interest cost paid by Mr and Mrs D1 in respect of this mortgage (the difference between the 
fixed interest rate of 3.65% and the SVR later paid) between  September  2017 and the date it 
was repaid in full due to the sale of the property  to Mr and Mrs D2. I think  the fair and 
reasonable redress in this case  would  be for Intrinsic to work out how much  Mr and Mrs D1 
paid in interest between the date I think the mortgage shouldve  ended (September  2017) 
and the date that it was actually paid off, refund  the difference and pay 8% simple interest on 
the refund  from the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
Dealing with compensation for trouble and upset, I dont think  £250 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Mr and Mrs D1 were misled for nearly a year by K. They  were  caused 
stress due to the increased monthly mortgage  payments  for two mortgages. Further upset 
was caused by the realisation of the depth  of Ks deception. Intrinsics response doesnt 
appear to accept that ultimately it is responsible for Ks actions, and forced  Mr and Mrs D1 to 
the inconvenience of complaining to this service.  I think £800 is fair and reasonable and 
consistent with the guidelines set out by this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00010804Mr and Mrs D1 accepted  my provisional view. Intrinsic said that it accepted my provisional 
view, though it disagreed with the amount  of compensation I indicated  would  be fair and 
reasonable. It noted Mr and Mrs D1 had experience of mortgages, hadnt signed any 
documents to proceed with a mortgage application and waited eleven months. Intrinsic also 
said Mr and Mrs D1 shouldnt have dealt  with Ks locum as he wasnt in a position to act on 
Intrinsics behalf.
Most of the points  raised by Intrinsic arent  new. I also dont think Mr and Mrs D1 are at fault 
for dealing  with the locum introduced by K, Intrinsics  appointed representative.  Consumers 
are entitled  to rely on the representations  made  by appointed representatives, and its for 
Intrinsic to take up its concerns about  the locum with K, not Mr and Mrs D1.
Having considered the evidence, the comments made in response to my provisional  decision 
and all the circumstances, I think the view set out in my provisional  decision is fair and 
reasonable and will make it my final decision.  I would also comment  that whether 
Mr and Mrs D1 had consent  to let their property to their relatives is irrelevant to the issue  of 
compensation; that is a matter between Mr and Mrs D1 and the lender only.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Intrinsic  Wealth Limited should pay 
Mr and Mrs D1 £800 compensation for the trouble  and upset suffered and compensation for 
their financial  loss as outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs D1 to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0001080