K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains St Andrews Insurance Plc unreasonably destroyed  items  that arent 
covered by her buildings and contents  insurance  policy.
background
In early 2018 a pipe burst above Ms Ls garage. The leaking water  created considerable 
damage to the contents inside the garage  and created  a large  hole in the ceiling, so she 
made a claim on her policy for the loss. The contents stored in the garage  included electrical 
items and furniture as well as other miscellaneous items. She said the value of all of the 
items in her garage was around  £20,000.  And she explained it was particularly high because 
she was redecorating  the inside of her home, so had used the garage to store items.
St Andrews  sent a salvage and restoration  company called P to assess  the damage  and 
handle this part of the claim. It said the contents of the garage were  beyond economical 
repair and therefore  arranged for them to be collected and destroyed.
However, St Andrews then told Ms L there was a limit on her policy that meant  she was only 
covered for £2,000 worth of contents in her garage. So it paid her this, but wouldnt pay for 
the rest of the items because it said these were beyond economical repair. So, it thought
Ms L wouldve had to pay to replace these items herself anyway. Ms L complained, she said 
lots of the items that had been destroyed could have been salvaged or repaired, so she felt 
shed lost out. St Andrews apologised for the misinformation, and offered Ms L £250 
compensation for this. Ms L was able to get back one high value item that hadnt been  
destroyed.
An investigator at our service looked at Ms Ls complaint and said the evidence suggested 
the items  were beyond  economical repair. So he said St Andrews didnt need to do anything  
further. He also said he thought £250  compensation was fair to compensate Ms L for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by raising Ms Ls expectations. Ms L disagreed, she said 
shed been encouraged to destroy  items and wouldnt have done  so if she knew  she 
wouldnt be covered  for them. So, she felt St Andrews should reimburse her for all the items 
it had incorrectly destroyed. Because she didnt  agree the complaint came to me for a 
decision.
I considered all of the evidence  and arguments.  I issued a provisional decision in which I 
upheld the complaint, in part. In it I said:
Ms Ls policy says The most we will pay for contents within garages,  greenhouses,  sheds 
and outbuildings  is £2,000. So I agree that a limit of £2,000 for damaged contents applies to 
Ms Ls claim.
P, acting  on behalf  of St Andrews,  removed  the majority of items  from Ms Ls garage.  And
St Andrews  has accepted  that it hadnt told Ms L about the above policy limit at the point  this 
happened. Policy  limits  such as this one are common,  and so P shouldnt  have  removed 
items that wouldnt have  been covered by the policy. Or it should have let Ms L know,  so she 
could make an informed  decision. Instead Ms L says she was told everything in the garage  
would be covered. So I need  to consider what  would have happened had St Andrews told
Ms L about the limit.
Ref: DRN06069082Ms L says had she been told about the limit she would have kept some of the items. She 
says she would have  been able to salvage  some of them. P says she wouldnt have been 
able to because  they were  all beyond economical  repair due to water  damage.
Unfortunately, now that most of the items  have  been  disposed  of, no one can say for sure 
whether any of Ms Ls items were  salvageable or not. So I need to consider what  is most 
likely and what is fair and reasonable  based on the evidence  that is available.  Having done 
so I think St Andrews should pay Ms L a further £500, and Ill explain why.
Looking at the reports and pictures  of the garage after the damage I can see the damage to 
the ceiling  was extensive. There was a large  hole in the ceiling. And P reported seeing  a 
water mark  around the garage walls - four inches from the floor.  So I think  its likely there 
was damage to a lot of Ms Ls contents.  Especially those items that were stored on the floor 
or under where the ceiling fell.
However, having considered photos that were taken after the water damage  I can see not 
everything in the garage had been  damaged.  Some items were stored on shelving units,  or 
in plastic crates. And so dont appear  to be water logged. I think its likely at least some of 
the items  that were stored in this way would  have been salvageable.
Ms L wouldve been entitled to keep the items  that were salvageable. They were her items,  
and not covered under the policy, which only provided cover  up to £2,000.  So, I think
St Andrews  needs  to reimburse Ms L for the items she would likely have been able to 
salvage but were  instead destroyed. Ive needed to think about how much this is likely to 
have been worth. And so Ive considered  the items Ms L has told us were  in the garage as 
well as pictures and Ps notes.
The highest  value item was a laser cutter that was worth around £7,000. This was stored on 
the floor on the garage. However, it was water  logged  so it couldnt be tested safely.  This 
was one item that hadnt been  destroyed, so was returned to Ms L. And shes confirmed that 
it isnt usable due to water damage.
Because Ms L was redecorating the garage also had large items of furniture in it and these  
were stored on the floor. Considering the size of these items and materials,  as well as the 
amount of water that entered the garage, I think its likely these would also have been 
damaged beyond economical  repair.  So, Im satisfied St Andrews doesnt need  to reimburse
Ms L for any of these items.
Ms L has also told us a lot of the personal items  such as books, DVDs and games were 
stored in cardboard boxes. And were stored on the left hand side of the garage,  where the 
ceiling had fallen.  And when she discovered the leak the boxes were waterlogged. So I think 
its likely  these items were also beyond economical  repair  so Ms L wouldnt have been 
able to salvage them. Given this, Im not intending  to make any recommendations for these 
items.
But, looking  at the list of contents  and pictures I think its likely  that some  low to mid value 
items may have been salvageable because they were stored in plastic  crates  or on the 
shelving unit on the right hand side of the garage. Having seen pictures of these units  after 
the water  damage, I think its likely they were  largely unaffected. Its not possible to say with 
certainty which items were on these  shelves. Or what  value they would amount to. So, Ive 
needed to arrive at a decision based  on what I think is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN06069083Having done so, I think it would be fair for St Andrews to pay Ms L an amount  of £500 for 
these items.  Neither party has given  me any firm evidence of what  items  were on the 
shelving unit or in the plastic  crates. So, I cant be sure of the exact value of the items lost.
But Ms L has said ad hoc items were stored here, including some old computers and 
laptops. Given some of these were  electrical  items, they may be more susceptible  to 
damage and since  they were older  and unused  they were not likely to have a very high value 
originally. So I dont  think the value of the items on the shelves would have been high. And I 
think £500 is likely to be an accurate reflection of the loss Ms L has suffered. But, if either 
party has any information to suggest  the cost of these items wouldve been different Im 
happy to consider this.
St Andrews  has offered  £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.  And considering 
the loss of expectation Ms L has felt, I think this is appropriate because this amount 
accurately reflects  what Ms L would  have felt.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Ms L and St Andrews responded to my provisional decision.
Ms L made a number  of points, but in summary:
she feels let down by P
she wanted to emphasise how much she was encouraged  to dispose of items  by the 
men who cleared the garage. 
she appreciates  its hard to quantify  the damage  now, but feels  certain some items  
(particularly those on the right hand  side) wouldnt have been destroyed- and these 
were of relatively high value.
The laser machine wasnt  tested before it was taken and its not clear how it was 
stored.
St Andrews  acknowledged items could have been  salvaged had Mrs L known about the limit 
sooner, so agreed to pay an additional £500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again as well as both parties 
responses to my provisional  decision to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in part and direct  
St Andrews  to pay Ms L an additional  £500  as per my provisional decision.
I appreciate Ms L feels disappointed in Ps actions. As I said in my decision, she wasnt  
given enough  information to make  an informed decision- and this resulted in her losing out. 
So I empathise with the position Ms L finds herself  in. But I think St Andrews has attempted 
to recognise this by offering a gesture of £250,  in addition to the £500  I suggested  in my 
provisional decision.
In Ms Ls response shes suggested some of the items that she thinks would have been 
salvageable, most  of these having been stored  on the right hand  side of the garage. There 
are some smaller items in this list such  as a dining set, but the majority were large items of 
furniture or electrical  items. I considered both of these in my provisional decision.  About the 
furniture I said Considering the size of these items and materials,  as well as the amount of 
water that entered the garage,  I think its likely  these  would also have been damaged  beyond  
Ref: DRN06069084economical repair. I also discussed the susceptibility of electrical  items  to water damage.  
Having considered all of the comments,  I still dont think its likely these would have been 
salvageable. I appreciate  not all would have been  damaged, which is part of the reason  I 
suggested St Andrews  makes a payment. However  Ive not seen any evidence that inclines 
me to increase this award.  
The laser  cutter was the most expensive item in the garage; however because of its nature- 
involving electricals and lasers, I think it would have been highly  susceptible  to damage.  P 
said the laser cutter  couldnt be tested safely which suggests to me it was badly damaged.  
So regardless of how it was stored once P took it away, on the balance  of probabilities I 
dont think it wouldnt have been  salvageable.  As per my provisional decision I make  no 
award for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct St Andrews Insurance  Plc to 
pay Ms L £500 in addition  to the money  it has already given Ms L.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0606908