K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about an Argos store card account that he opened with Home  Retail
Group Card  Services Limited  (HRG). Mr F thinks HRG provided credit to him irresponsibly.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in November 2020 that I summarise 
below.
Mr F opened an Argos store card account  with HRG  in June 2014 with an initial credit limit of
£650. HRG says the credit limit was reduced in June 2015  to £570. Mr F thinks  HRG
shouldnt have provided him with credit and that it should have realised when he applied  to
open the account that he was reliant  on payday  loans.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
HRG needed to do such as the amount of credit being given, and the consumers income  
and expenditure.  With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship. I also said that HRG was 
required to establish  whether Mr F could afford  to repay what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. 
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether HRG did what it needed to before it 
accepted Mr Fs application for an Argos store card and provided him with an initial credit 
limit.
Before opening  the account,  HRG said that it checked Mr Fs financial position using the
data shown on his credit file. HRG told us that it uses credit  scoring to help it decide
whether to provide credit to an applicant. And that it considers such information as
the applicants  employment and residential  status,  time with their bank, and information
provided by various  Credit  Reference Agencies.
HRG says due to the passage  of time,  it isnt able to provide Mr Fs application
documentation from its system. But it says that his credit report showed  five active accounts
with no default  status;  there were no County Court  Judgments and his credit  score 
exceeded the average risk score.
But I thought it would  have been proportionate  for HRGs checks to go further than they did.
HRG says that Mr Fs income and expenditure would not have been recorded during his
application. I thought it is difficult to establish  whether repayments of credit  would  be 
affordable without an understanding of a consumers income and regular monthly  
expenditure. Overall,  given the limited information  that Id seen from HRG, I could not say 
that the checks it carried out before  providing  Mr F with credit  were reasonable and 
proportionate.
I considered what HRG might have seen  from its credit  checks  as Mr F provided us with a 
copy of his credit report from around  the time he applied for his Argos  store card.  Credit  
reports differ  in the level and detail of information they provide. But I thought its reasonable 
to assume that the credit report  that HRG is likely  to have  acquired at the time would have 
shown similar information to the credit report that Mr F sent us.
Ref: DRN01956422Mr Fs credit report shows that he had been taking payday and short-term  loans  in the
months leading  up to his application to HRG. He also had other existing commitments to at
least 2 credit cards and some other lending when he applied  for his Argos store  card with
HRG. One of Mr Fs credit cards  had a balance of £257 against  a credit limit of £500; the
other card balance isnt shown in the report that Mr F has sent. 
Its difficult to know  exactly how indebted Mr F was when he applied  to HRG for credit. But 
from what Id seen,  he doesnt seem to have had a very high level of indebtedness  at the 
time. Nor did it seem likely that there  would  have been a great deal of adverse information  
on the credit  report.  Mr F had regularly been taking  payday loans. But on balance, I didnt 
think his borrowing behaviour, or the levels of his outstanding credit had reached a point at 
which it would have  been fair or reasonable to expect HRG to automatically decline Mr Fs 
application for an Argos store card, based  on what its likely  to have found in its credit  
checks.
However, as I explained, given  the limited information available  about Mr Fs application and 
what he told HRG about his circumstances at the time, I couldnt  say that HRGs checks  
overall were reasonable or proportionate.
But even if those checks werent proportionate,  it doesnt automatically follow that HRG was
wrong to provide Mr F with credit.
Mr F provided bank statements from a joint account  from around the time he applied  for
his Argos store card. I reviewed these  carefully.  Of course, different checks might show  
different things. But from what Id seen,  even if HRG had carried  out more  thorough  checks 
at the time, such as requesting a bank statement, I couldnt fairly  say that it ought reasonably  
to have concluded that it should decline Mr Fs application for credit.
In the 3 months leading up to his application  to HRG Mr Fs joint bank account remained in
credit; there are no significant  signs of financial  distress such  as frequent  returned requests
for payment or high bank  charges for an unarranged or arranged  overdraft. The bank
statements dont indicate gambling or very frequent borrowing  from multiple short-term
lenders, which  might  have  signalled to HRG that Mr F was experiencing severe financial 
difficulties. I accepted that Mr F was borrowing from other short-term lenders; he might not 
have been in the best financial position  and I recognised that later on Mr F did find it more 
difficult to manage his finances.
But on balance, I couldnt fairly say that when Mr F applied for an Argos  store card,  HRG 
ought reasonably  to have concluded it would be irresponsible to provide him with credit.  And 
I hadnt seen enough information for me to say that the credit limit that HRG gave to Mr F 
when it opened  his account  was inappropriate or unfair at the time.
Overall, I couldnt fairly say that HRG provided credit to Mr F irresponsibly or treated  him
unfairly in some other  way. 
I said I did not intend to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  and I invited both parties to respond to my 
provisional decision. I have not seen any new evidence from either Mr F or from HRG and 
the deadline for providing any new information  has now passed.  
Ref: DRN01956423my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any new evidence that changes my mind about this complaint, I 
confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I know Mr F will be disappointed by my decision, but I would like to reassure him I have 
carefully considered  everything that both he and HRG  have  told us. Having done so, I do not 
uphold Mr Fs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint or make  any award against 
Home Retail  Group Card Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0195642