K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that MEM Consumer Finance Limited (trading as Payday UK) gave him 
loans that were unaffordable.
background
During 2009 and 2010  Mr C borrowed three payday loans from Payday UK, as follows:
Loan Amount Date  of loan Date repaid
1 £100 8.10.09 16.11.09
2 £200 21.12.09 16.4.10
3 £200 12.5.10 9.7.10
Mr C is unhappy that Payday  UK gave him loans which were which were unaffordable for 
him and were repeatedly rolled-over. Hes also complained that Payday UK have provided 
details of seven  different  loan IDs but have  considered his complaint only in respect  of three  
loans.
Payday UK contends that, based upon the information Mr C provided, it was satisfied that its 
loans were affordable,  that there were no issues of concern to it and that he wasnt  reliant 
upon borrowing  from it.
Our adjudicator felt that Payday UK had done  nothing wrong  in providing loan one. However, 
she didnt think that its checks for loans  two and three went far enough. But, she was unable 
to determine whether  better checks wouldve likely led to a different conclusion  because she 
had insufficient  information available with which  to make a reasonable assessment. So, she 
didnt recommend that Payday UK should be asked  to do anything further.
Mr C didnt agree. He felt that Payday UK shouldve  done further checks,  including  obtaining 
credit reports. If it had done so he believes it wouldve seen that he was caught in a spiral of 
payday loans  and that, as such, its loans werent  affordable to him. Because he doesnt 
agree hes asked, as hes perfectly entitled  to do, that his complaint be considered by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Payday UK was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks  to see whether Mr C 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr C was borrowing and his lending  history, but 
there was no set list of checks that Payday UK had to do.
Having reviewed Payday  UKs files I can see that Mr C had three  loans. However, two of 
these loans were subject to extensions, on a total of four occasions. Each  time a loan was 
extended a new loan ID was generated in Payday UKs system and this accounts for the 
confusion in the number of loan IDs referred  to by Mr C. Im content that, in assessing Mr Cs 
complaint, Payday UK has considered all of its lending to him at this time.  
Ref: DRN09609612Payday UK has shown  us that, before each  loan, it asked Mr C for details of his monthly 
income. He declared  this, on each occasion,  to be £1,900. Its records suggest  that no further 
information was sought.
Loan one was for £100 and was repaid  in full in line with the agreement. This was Mr Cs 
first loan with Payday  UK, it was for a short  term and the amount to be repaid, at £125, 
wouldve seemed  relatively modest  compared to his income. I think  that, in these 
circumstances, the loan wouldve appeared affordable and my view is that it was reasonable 
for Payday UK to rely solely upon the information it had been given. I dont believe it was 
wrong to provide this loan.
There was a gap of just over one month  between  loan one being repaid and loan two being  
given. Loan two was for a higher value. I think that, against that background, Payday UK 
shouldve asked more  questions of Mr C, including details of his normal  monthly  living costs 
and any regular financial commitments. I cant see that it did so and, as such, I dont think  
that its checks went far enough.
Loan two was originally scheduled  to be repaid in January 2010 but it was deferred  by Mr C 
on three occasions (whereby portions of the principal loan were  repaid, along with interest, 
but the residual  balance  was then extended for a further month). It was ultimately repaid in 
April 2010. 
Mr C then applied for loan three around one month later. I think  that, given hed been 
borrowing from it for the majority of the past seven months, Payday UK ought to have been  
questioning whether Mr C had become dependent upon short  term lending.  So, in addition to 
asking for details of regular income and expenditure, Id have expected it to also seek 
information on any other short term loan commitments he might  have.  I cant see that it did 
this and so, here again, I dont think its checks went far enough.
Having concluded  that Payday UKs checks didnt go far enough for loans two and three, I 
must now consider  whether it might  have come to any different lending  decisions if it had 
carried out the better checks that I consider to be proportionate. Clearly its very difficult at 
this stage to be sure about  what Mr C wouldve told Payday  UK if it had asked  him for details 
of his expenditure and borrowing commitments, of both a regular and short  term loan nature.
Mr C has told us what he recalls his expenditure  to have been at that time,  which  amounts to 
around £2,145  per month. On the face of it this would imply that the loans were unaffordable. 
Unfortunately, though,  theres no way for Mr Cs expenditure  to be validated  as its not been 
possible for him to obtain copies of his bank statements going back  so far in time.  The oldest 
available bank statements date from February 2012, some  18 months after the last loan was 
repaid. Similarly, the credit report provided to us carries information about Mr Cs loans and 
other borrowings going back only to 2012.
Mr C has suggested that hed have expected Payday UK to have carried out credit checks  
before it lent to him, and that it should, therefore, be able to provide the results of these  
checks to us. However, there has never  been a requirement for the lender to carry out credit 
checks and its records supplied to us suggest  that it didnt do so.
I can see from both the later bank statements and credit report  that Mr C has been  a prolific 
borrower across many  years, and has also been gambling extensively.  So, I dont dispute 
what Mr C says about experiencing financial difficulties at the time these loans were taken in 
2009/10. Unfortunately, however, I have no evidence whatsoever to support this and, without 
Ref: DRN09609613that, I regret that Im unable to conclude whether or not Payday UK would most likely have 
given the latter two loans if it had done  the better checks  that I believe it ought  to have 
undertaken. I am, therefore,  unable to say that Payday UK was wrong to provide these 
loans.
Im sorry  that this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but, in these circumstances, Im not 
able to uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0960961