K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have handled his claim on his 
motor insurance policy.  Weve previously issued a decision on the initial  handling of his 
claim. So this decision  only relates  to what  happened after 9 December 2017.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2019 and set out the background as 
follows:-
Mr S is a self-employed tradesperson  and the van he uses  for his trade is insured with UKI. 
In June 2017 he was involved in an accident  and made a claim on his policy.  
A previous decision, which Mr S and UKI accepted, considered what happened from the 
date of the accident to 9 December 2017. But Mr S was unhappy with ongoing delays and 
the quality of the repairs so he made  a further complaint to UKI.
Mr S tells us his van has been damaged  during the repairs. UKI sent an engineer  to inspect  
the vehicle who advised there is a scratch on the bumper that was possibly caused by the 
repairs. And theyve offered a cash settlement of £196.84 to allow  Mr S to get the repair  
done. Mr S feels this isnt sufficient to cover the necessary remedial work. And says that hed 
need to hire a vehicle  whilst his van is being  repaired which  UKI are unwilling to pay for.
Mr S is unhappy with the length of time UKI took to rectify other issues after December 2017. 
And has suggested UKI respray  the front of his van as compensation for the poor quality of 
the repairs throughout his claim.  UKI have not agreed to this request.
Mr S has also asked  for UKI to cover his loss of earnings whilst his van was unavailable  to 
him. UKI said it would consider this if he provided evidence of the loss incurred.
Our investigators view was that UKI should make a cash  settlement for the scratch to the 
bumper. And that if the repair costs more than £196.84 UKI should reconsider the amount it 
pays provided the costs  are reasonable and for this specific work only.  The investigator  also 
felt it wasnt reasonable  for UKI to rectify  any damage  not covered by the policy or caused by 
its repairers. So she did not agree that the front of the van should be resprayed. She did 
agree there had been delays in between Mr S raising concerns with the repairs and the work  
being completed. And felt UKI should pay £200 in recognition of these delays.
With regard to loss of earnings our investigator said that to consider this shed need further 
information such as relevant  accounts  or evidence of lost work. And that as shed not been  
provided with any further evidence  she was unable to ask UKI to cover any loss of earnings.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators  view and asked that an ombudsman decide his case.
my provisional findings
I said I intended to require UKI to pay a cash amount in lieu of repairing the vehicle and also 
give compensation for the delay in handling  the claim. I set out the detail of my findings  as 
follows:-
Ref: DRN08114752UKI have  offered to make a cash in lieu settlement  for the damage to the bumper  that Mr S 
says was caused by the previous repairs. Their engineer estimates  the cost to carry out this 
repair is £196.84 but Mr S believes it will cost more than this. 
Ive seen an estimate prepared by UKIs  engineer using the Audatex  system (well know 
across the industry). Mr S hasnt provided  us with any itemised  quotes  or an invoice for 
these works  to suggest why he thinks this isnt a reasonable settlement. And in the absence 
of this evidence   and to avoid this matter going  on indefinitely  and without closure  I am 
intending to say UKI should award  £196.84  for the cost of the necessary repair  works.  If Mr 
S does  provide any itemised quotes  or an invoice  prior to my final decision, I am willing  to 
consider this.
I agree  with our investigator that there  were delays  in carrying  out work on the vehicle since 
December 2017.  And I can appreciate that this has been a cause of frustration for Mr S. Our 
investigators view was that UKI should pay Mr S £200  in recognition of the delays.  Taking 
account of the circumstances  of this case,  and that Mr S would be without  his vehicle, or 
have to hire a replacement whilst the bumper  is repaired Im minded to direct  UKI to award 
£300.
Mr S thinks  UKI should compensate him for his loss of earnings. Strictly speaking Mr Ss 
policy doesnt cover  him for that but UKI said it would  consider this if Mr S was to provide 
evidence of the loss. Mr S hasnt provided anything  to support these losses.  So I dont  think  
it would  be reasonable to direct UKI to cover loss of earnings. 
Replies to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to let me have their further  comments.
UKI accepted the findings in my provisional  decision.  Mr S advised  that he wanted UKI to 
rectify the poor work on his vehicle rather than have a cash  in lieu settlement. Mr S 
explained he hadnt obtained  alternative  quotations  or invoices  for the repairs  as wed not 
directed UKI to cover  his loss of earning  whilst obtaining quotations. Mr S had previously 
sent in a typed  estimate indicating a day off work  would cost him £250.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to reach  
a different outcome to that in my provisional decision.
There is some dispute as to the extent of the damage caused during repairs and Mr S has 
highlighted what he refers  to as consequential damage such as paint chips  from road 
usage. Mr S has suggested the front of his vehicle should be resprayed. Ive considered 
what Mr S has said and Ive looked at the reports and pictures of Mr Ss vehicle. I find there  
is evidence of significant wear and tear to the front, rear and sides  the vehicle as well as the 
scratch on the bumper  possibly caused during repairs. I agree  with our investigator that its 
not reasonable for UKI to rectify any damage  not covered by the policy or caused by its 
repairers. And that UKI are only responsible  for the repairs to the scratch on the bumper.
Mr S hasnt provided any alternative  itemised  quotations or invoices for the repair to the 
scratch on the bumper  for me to consider. I appreciate Mr S is busy with his business but I 
dont think its reasonable for UKI to compensate him for lost earnings  whilst obtaining 
Ref: DRN08114753quotations without  evidence of the loss. And Im satisfied that the estimate of £196.84 
prepared using the Audatex system is fair and reasonable.  
Mr Ss policy  allows  UKI the option to pay to repair damage to the vehicle or repair the 
damage themselves.  And taking account of the circumstances of this case  I think its 
reasonable for UKI to make a cash  in lieu settlement rather  than have their approved 
repairers carry out remedial work. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint  against U K Insurance Limited and require it to pay Mr S at total of 
£496.84 comprising:-
£196.84 in lieu of repairs
£300 for the trouble  and upset caused  by the delays in handling  his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0811475