K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the way in which  Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy for smoke  damage.
background
On 29 August 2017 Mrs R was cooking  a curry. She forgot  to turn off the stove before 
leaving her home. When she returned  about  three  hours later she was able to remove the 
pan from the stove to prevent further  damage. But her house was full of smoke. So, on 1 
September 2017, she contacted Ageas, her contents insurer,  to make  a claim for accidental  
smoke damage throughout her property.  
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to attend  Mrs Rs property and assist it in dealing with the 
claim. Ill refer to them as L throughout this decision. Following a visit to Mrs Rs property 
about a week  after the accident  L found  no visible damage to her contents.  It said there was 
no evidence of fire or smoke and the odour Mrs R had complained about had diminished by 
the time of its visit. It also said it would  expect a curry odour  to remain in the house for 
several days. So, L felt Mrs Rs claim should  be restricted  to a general  clean  of carpets and 
soft furnishings. And it appointed a company to assist  with that. Ill call this company B.
B visited Mrs Rs property  and cleaned the carpets and soft furnishings. It didnt detect any 
evidence of smoke contamination or damage.  And when it arrived  it noted that there was a 
sofa and freezer  outside Mrs Rs property. Mrs R said these items had been moved outside 
because the freezer  had been damaged and the sofa smelt of smoke. And she said B had 
told her to remove them from her property. But B denied  it had told her to place these  items  
outside as theyd been there already when it arrived. And it didnt think theyd been damaged 
by smoke.
B attended Mrs Rs property again  in December 2017 because  she remained concerned 
about a residual smoke  smell in her home. During this visit it detected no smoke  
contamination or residual burnt food odour. But it said there  was a fairly strong smell of paint 
within the property.  Mrs R said her landlords insurer had arranged  re-painting as part of a 
claim on the building insurance.
Based on the findings of B and L Ageas told Mrs R it was declining her claim. It refused to 
replace her sofa and freezer and it refuted her claims that shed  been  told to place  these 
items outside. It said, in doing so, she had left them  exposed  to the elements, which  meant it 
couldnt validate any damage  that may have occurred as a result of the accident.
Mrs R wasnt happy that Ageas  had declined to settle her claim. So, she complained to our 
service.  Our investigator initially  upheld  Mrs Rs complaint  in part. They thought Ageas  had 
acted fairly  in declining her claim in the absence  of visible smoke damage to the property. 
But they thought Ageas shouldnt have disposed  of Mrs Rs sofa or freezer if it wasnt 
intending to replace these  items.  Our investigator  thought both items should  be replaced in 
the circumstances. And they also thought Ageas  should compensate  Mrs R £100 to reflect 
the time she had been without them. 
Mrs R accepted our investigators initial view but Ageas didnt. It didnt think  it was 
responsible for replacing the sofa or freezer or that it needed to pay compensation because 
it said Mrs R hadnt been told to place these items outside. It said there was no evidence 
that they had been damaged by the accident.  And it also said between  the time the items  
Ref: DRN09642872were placed  outside and the inspection date there had been  heavy rainfall.  So, both items 
wouldve incurred considerable damage on being left exposed  outside. It stated that Mrs R 
would have needed to have both items  disposed of and it had saved her from incurring any 
disposal costs by removing these items  on her behalf. 
Our investigator reconsidered this complaint having reflected on Ageas comments.  They 
accepted what  Ageas had said and withdrew their comments about compensation and 
replacing the freezer and sofa. Overall, they were satisfied Ageas had dealt with Mrs Rs 
claim fairly. So, they told her they wouldnt be upholding her complaint. But Mrs R didnt 
agree and asked  for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim Mrs R made  to Ageas was for accidental damage under  her contents insurance. 
She told our service about  how her landlords buildings insurer paid for redecoration for 
smoke damage caused by the same accident.  But, I think  its important  to say at the outset 
that Im only considering  how Ageas  handled this claim. 
Mrs Rs policy covers her for smoke damage  to contents. For Ageas to agree to pay her 
claim it would  require  evidence of smoke damage. With this in mind Ive carefully  considered 
the reports that were  compiled by B and L following its visits to Mrs Rs property.
When both L and B attended her property within a week of the accident  taking  place no 
visible smoke  damage or odour was discernible. If there had been smoke damage caused  
Id have expected this to have been documented  by both L and B during  visits at this time.
Based on what Ive seen  Im satisfied that both L and B undertook a thorough inspection 
during visits to Mrs Rs property. I say this because they inspected every  room that Mrs R 
said had sustained smoke  damage. And they couldnt find any evidence  of damage or 
smoke contamination.  It follows that I cant fairly say Ageas acted unreasonably in declining 
Mrs Rs claim.
Its clear Mrs R thinks Ageas should have  covered  costs she incurred in cleaning clothing,  
and other  household items. I can see our investigator  asked her to provide receipts for any 
cleaning costs incurred.  But she hasnt been able to do so as she said she cleaned most  
items herself  and hired a shampoo machine to clean her sofas  and curtains.
Mrs R also thinks  Ageas should reimburse  her for the cost of her freezer  and sofa. She says 
B told her to put these items outside.  But B denies  removing them or telling her to do so. And 
Ageas says Mrs R removed these items from her home prior to either  B or L attending. 
Where theres  a disagreement about what happened, as there  is here, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances, on the 
balance of the evidence available. Ive given careful  consideration  to what  is being said here. 
Theres no evidence of telephone calls or emails  to indicate Mrs R was told to place her sofa 
and freezer outside.   And  B reported that these items were already outside when it arrived  at 
Mrs Rs property in September 2017.  Ive seen a photograph  provided by L showing this.
Ref: DRN09642873I think its more likely than not, on balance, that if Mrs R had been told to place her freezer  
and sofa outside this would be recorded in the contact notes. And I also think if either  L or B 
had placed these items outside it would have reported that to Ageas. Im not persuaded that 
either L or B would have  recommended leaving a sofa or freezer  exposed  particularly 
bearing in mind the adverse weather at the relevant time. I think theyd have  known that 
doing so would have prejudiced Ageas ability to validate any smoke-related damage to 
these items.  And I also think theyd  have known doing so would have potentially exposed  
Ageas to a claim from Mrs R for damage caused to her items by weather.
I think its most likely  that Mrs R placed  the sofa and freezer outside  of her own freewill. As I 
havent seen any evidence that proves  the sofa and freezer  were  damaged  by smoke I cant 
fairly tell Ageas to replace these items. I also think that by Mrs R placing her sofa and 
freezer outside exposed  to the weather she prejudiced  Ageas  ability  to assess  whether any 
smoke damage had been caused to these  items.  As Im not satisfied Mrs R was told to place 
these items  outside  I wont be telling Ageas  to replace them  or pay compensation to cover  
loss of use. 
Overall, I think Ageas  acted fairly here. I say this because even though  it didnt think  there  
was evidence of any smoke damage it agreed  to clean Mrs Rs carpets and soft furnishings. 
It also removed her freezer and sofa, which had sustained weather related damage after 
theyd been left outside. Ultimately, this saved Mrs R the inconvenience and cost of 
disposing of these  items  herself. 
I understand Mrs R feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the 
reasons stated above, Im satisfied that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably  and Im not going 
to be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0964287