K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
Mrs B opened a store card in June 2001  while shopping in a store. In August 2001  a PPI 
policy was added to the account  during  a telephone  call. 
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs B no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.   
It wouldve  paid a monthly benefit  of 15% of the outstanding balance if Mrs B was unable  to 
work due to ill-health,  an accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either     
Mrs B returned to work  or the balance was cleared. In total Mrs B was charged £92.06 in PPI 
premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs B that the PPI was optional. Mrs B applied for the store card 
by filling  in a leaflet given to her in a store. 
FICL has shown us a copy of the store card application form. I can see Mrs B did not opt to 
add PPI at the time.
The PPI was added later, two months  after the account was opened. This happened 
following a telephone conversation between FICL  and Mrs B. 
As the policy was added after the account was opened I think  it is likely  Mrs B would be 
aware at the time she didnt have to take the PPI.
Taking everything into account  I think its likely  Mrs B chose to take the PPI knowing she 
didnt have to, but its understandable if Mrs B has forgotten  this after so many years.
   
I dont think FICL advised Mrs B to take the policy out. So it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for her. But FICL did have to give Mrs B clear information so 
that she could  make a choice about whether or not to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN05598362The sale took place  in 2001  so it is understandable that there is no telephone recording 
available. So its not possible for me to know if FICL gave Mrs B all the information it 
shouldve about  the policy and its costs.  
I next need to decide whether or not Mrs B would have changed her mind  about buying the 
policy if she had been given better  or clearer information. I cant  say she would have done.
I say this because:
Mrs B was eligible  for the PPI based on her circumstances  at the time of the sale. So 
shed have been able to make a claim if she needed  to.
If Mrs B couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid out 15% of her 
outstanding balance every month until the balance had been paid off or she returned  
to work. And it wouldve  paid the same benefit  if Mrs B lost her job. 
Although Mrs Bs employer wouldve paid her full pay for some time, the PPI policy 
could have paid a monthly benefit in addition to her sick pay. And likely for longer 
than her employer would pay her full pay. So I still think Mrs B would have found the 
policy useful, particularly  if she was not able to work  for a prolonged period.
 
The policy had some exclusions  and restrictive terms. But Mrs B wasnt affected  by 
these. For instance Mrs B has told us she didnt  have  any medical conditions at the 
time of the sale which the policy wouldnt have covered.
Mrs B has told us she had some savings at the time but the PPI policy  would have 
allowed her to keep  those savings intact or use them  for other  living costs if she 
became unwell or lost her job.
So, taking everything  into account I think its likely Mrs B was aware the PPI was optional  
and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Mrs B had been  given clear 
information about the policy shed  still have gone ahead and bought it.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0559836