K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 on a 
credit card. Mrs L says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs L has said that she was led to believe the PPI was a compulsory part of the credit 
card. Eggs records show that Mrs L took out the credit  card and PPI online, and it has 
given me screen shots it says Mrs L wouldve seen when she completed her online 
application. I can see that Mrs L would have been given the choice of either ticking a 
yes box to buy the PPI or a no box to decline it. Theres  nothing  on these screens that 
makes me think the PPI was presented as compulsory. And looking at Eggs internal 
records, I can see that Mrs L ticked  the yes box to confirm  she wanted  the PPI. 
So with what  Ive seen,  I think Egg made it clear that Mrs L had a choice about taking the 
PPI, and I think she chose  to take it knowing  she didnt have to. 
Ive not seen anything to make  me think Egg made a personal recommendation to Mrs L 
to take the PPI. So it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make 
sure she had the information  she needed so she could decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. Mrs Ls 
representatives have  said she had good sick pay, but theyve not referred to the same 
employer that the application record shows Mrs L was working  for at the time of the sale. 
And when we previously asked  Mrs L  through her representatives  what  other  means 
of paying her credit card she had when working  for the employer  noted  on the application 
record, she told us she had no savings,  and didnt mention any employment benefits  she 
was entitled to. 
Looking at the details we have from the application record of where Mrs L was working at 
the time of the sale, I think its unlikely she would have been  entitled to enough sick pay 
to mean  that the PPI wasnt beneficial, as the PPI could have helped cover  her card 
repayments for up to 12 months if she was too ill to work or if she lost her job. Mrs L has 
told us her family and partner could have helped her meet  her repayments if necessary, 
but while I dont  doubt they would have wanted to help if they could, that would depend  
on their own circumstances at the time, so I dont think their help could  be guaranteed. 
Ref: DRN01611302So with all this in mind,  I think  the PPI would have been useful for Mrs L if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Egg will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:  
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about that. Because  Egg didnt tell Mrs L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has basically  offered  to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Egg has to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Egg should  also pay back to Mrs L any extra  interest Mrs L paid 
because of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs L the difference  between 
what Mrs L owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Mrs L 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off her credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs L can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  (trading as Egg) does have to pay back  to Mrs L any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0161130