K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Miss P took out with a store card in 1999.  Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why below.
Miss P says she didnt  know  PPI had been added  to her account and that it was added  
automatically.
FICL has sent us a copy of Miss Ps application form for the store  card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a space for Miss P to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Miss P has 
signed in the space.
Based on this, I think FICL made  it clear  to Miss P that she had a choice about  the PPI. And 
that Miss P chose to take it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss P got the information she needed  to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the policy  couldve 
paid out for significantly longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from 
her employer. So it would have been useful  for her if something went wrong. It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Miss P off taking it out.
Ref: DRN04966072my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0496607