K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains about the commission HSBC UK Bank  Plc (formerly Midland Bank) 
(HSBC) received when  it sold her a mortgage endowment policy  which included critical 
illness cover.  
background
Around 1994, Ms N was sold an endowment  policy alongside her mortgage. According  to 
HSBCs records,  it also included critical illness cover. The policy was surrendered in 2003.
In 2018, HSBC received a complaint from Ms N about the mis-sale of payment protection  
insurance (PPI). It rejected her complaint explaining there was no evidence of PPI being sold 
with her mortgage. Unhappy with this, Ms N referred  the matter  to us. Our investigator 
explained to Ms N that the product reference she had quoted in her correspondence to 
HSBC didnt relate to a PPI policy and there was no PPI attached to it. Ms N told us she 
wasnt sure whether PPI was sold, but she was still unhappy that HSBC  received financial 
gain from selling her the policy.  
The investigator looked into Ms Ns concerns and concluded HSBC  hadnt done anything 
wrong. She pointed out that at the time the policy was sold, it wasnt required to disclose 
whether and how much commission  was earned from the sale of the policy. Ms N disagreed  
with the investigators  findings. She explained she didnt  expect  a bank to offer a completely 
free service,  but she also didnt expect hidden or extremely excessive  charges.  She referred 
to the case of Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance Limited (2014), stating sales  involving high 
commissions were well publicised in the media.  Our investigator explained  this ruling wasnt 
relevant here as Ms N wasnt sold a PPI policy. Ms N maintained that the commission HSBC 
received for selling her the policy,  regardless of whether it included  PPI, wasnt fair.
As Ms N didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I explain why.
There has been some confusion between the parties as to what  type of policy Ms N took out. 
But given the policy information that Ms N provided,  and HSBC acknowledges Ms N had an 
endowment, the policy appears to be a mortgage  endowment policy with critical illness 
cover. So I have proceeded on that basis. 
I should start by explaining that over the years  there  have been  a number of changes  to the 
rules and regulations  in the financial industry.  When looking at complaints like Ms Ns, I have 
to consider the rules applicable at the time her policy  was sold  1994  not those that apply 
now. Im not aware of any requirement for HSBC to disclose that it received  commission  at 
that time,  and I know the requirement  to actually disclose how much came  in later. 
Given Ms Ns policy was sold 25 years  ago, and it was surrendered  in 2003, its not unusual 
or surprising  that HSBC  no longer  holds  any point of sale documentation. So it isnt possible 
now to know what Ms N was told about commission, if anything. But as she accepts banks 
would be remunerated for giving financial advice, its hard to see what Ms N would have 
Ref: DRN06285102done differently  had she been told commission was paid. And as Im not aware of it being a 
requirement, I dont find HSBC did anything wrong,  if it didnt disclose that information to   
Ms N or tell her how much.
I would add, if only for the sake of completeness, there is no set amount of commission  that 
is considered unfair with regards to the arranging of investments, although  as mentioned  
above it is now a requirement for the amount to be disclosed.  As has been pointed  out to  
Ms N, her complaint is entirely different to the situation that applies with PPI and Plevin.  
Thats because her policy wasnt  paid for by the provision of credit as many  PPI policies 
were. Its the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that give rise to a possible unfair 
relationship if high amounts of commission were paid. Those  provisions simply dont apply to 
Ms Ns situation. 
As Im not persuaded HSBC has done anything wrong, I make no award against  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0628510