K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that he wasnt  aware he contracted out of the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS) with Phoenix Life Limited  (Phoenix) because  it didnt provide him 
with any initial or ongoing  documentation.  He says he would have transferred to another  
provider if hed received any information  to show him how poor the plans performance had 
been. 
background
Mr R met with an adviser from Britannic Assurance  (now part of Phoenix) and agreed to 
contract out of SERPS in April 1989.  The application  form that was completed noted Mr R 
was 19 years old and earning £6,000 per annum at the time. It was also stated that he didnt 
have access to a company  scheme. Contributions to the plan continued  to be received until 
June 2007. 
In 2018 Mr R authorised  his financial  adviser to get information about  the plan from Phoenix.  
At that time the plan was valued  at £22,427.39. When  he received the information Mr R 
complained to Phoenix. He said hed been  very young when he first signed paperwork to 
contact out of SERPS and wasnt aware of what hed done. But he said he hadnt received 
any information or contact  from Phoenix in the 29 years that followed  and had only found  
out about the plan after contacting HMRC.  
He said he didnt believe Phoenix would ever have  contacted him and therefore  would have  
kept his plan funds. He asked for an explanation of what had happened and wanted 
compensation for the poor performance of the plan  because  he said if hed know he had 
the pension plan  and been aware  of its performance, he would have transferred it to a 
better performing provider.
Phoenix didnt  agree.  It said it considered  the recommendation to contract out of SERPS to 
have been appropriate and it had produced  annual  statements for Mr R. But as he hadnt 
made Phoenix aware that hed changed address the statements couldnt be sent to him. It 
said it would  have tried to trace Mr R nearer to his retirement date and wouldnt have kept 
the proceeds. Mr R remained unhappy  with Phoenixs position  so he brought his complaint 
to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
based on the evidence hed seen,  the recommendation to contract  out of SERPS  seemed 
suitable at the time. He also explained that Phoenix hadnt been  made  aware of Mr Rs new 
address and couldnt be expected to trace  Mr R in the circumstances. He said Mr R was 
aware that he held some  kind of plan with Phoenix  and he would have expected  Mr R to 
have informed Phoenix of his new address.
Mr R disagreed. He said  while he accepted that he did contract out of SERPS  through 
Phoenix, he didnt  fully understand this meant  he had a plan in force. So he had no reason 
to contact Phoenix about a plan or make it aware that hed changed address. He felt 
Phoenix should have done  more  over a period of thirty years  to make contact with him. 
He thought that if anything had happened  to him he believed Phoenix would have kept the 
proceeds of the plan and didnt think that was fair.
Mr R asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman, so its been  referred  to me to 
make a final decision.
Ref: DRN03357082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
the investigators view and for broadly  the same reasons.  I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr R so Ill explain why.
Suitability of recommendation to contract  out of SERPS
The State Earnings Related Pension Scheme was a top-up to the basic  state  pension  that 
was built up through  national  insurance  contributions. But it was possible to contract out of 
SERPS  either through a personal pension or an occupational pension  scheme  (OPS). I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  that Mr R was part of  or eligible to contribute  to an 
OPS at that time.  So the only option  available to him, if he wanted to contract  out, was to 
divert his relevant  national  insurance  contributions to a personal pension. 
In 1989 there wasnt any requirement for a provider to carry out a detailed  fact find or 
provide a recommendation letter if it advised  an individual to contract  out of SERPS. The 
main factors  that were used to determine  whether someone was likely to be better off as a 
result of such advice were age, earnings  and the investment horizon (time to retirement  
age). 
Mr R was under the pivotal age for men at the time of the advice; and had annual  earnings 
above the relevant lower earnings  limit. And there  were many  years before his intended 
retirement age. So I dont think advice to start pension savings could be considered  
unsuitable. And Im satisfied that  based  on what was known at the time, the advice was 
appropriate and provided Mr R with a reasonable prospect  of providing better benefits at 
retirement. So I dont  think Phoenix did anything wrong when it advised  Mr R to contract  out 
of SERPS.
Lack of annual statements/contact over the term of the plan
Although Ive decided that the advice  Phoenix gave was suitable, the main  part of Mr Rs 
complaint is that he wasnt aware  he had a plan with Phoenix because he said he just 
signed some  documents at the time and never received any initial paperwork or ongoing 
correspondence. He says he wasnt able to make  any investment decisions about  his plan  
including the chance to transfer to another provider  for potentially  greater returns.
Theres no evidence to demonstrate that Mr R did receive any annual statements. Phoenix 
says this is because  his address was removed, most likely because  post was returned which 
indicated Mr R no longer  lived at the address it held on record for him. 
It says this meant his plan no longer  had any address linked to it and although statements 
were generated they couldnt  be sent to him. 
Mr R has confirmed that he did move  from the address on his application form in 1990  the 
year after the plan commenced. So its possible he wouldnt have received anything related 
to his plan having changed  address  so soon after taking out the plan. Phoenix says it was 
Mr Rs responsibility to update it with any changes  to his address and it couldnt reasonably 
have been expected to try to trace him. It has said its usual practice is to trace a customer  
within three years of retirement   using the DWP  if it doesnt have up to date contact 
details at that point.  
Ref: DRN03357083Mr R doesnt dispute that he agreed  to contract  out of SERPS with Phoenix.  And he 
understands that its not practical for businesses  to trace customers  every time they change  
address. But he has suggested that providers should be obliged to check  its databases 
every five years or so to ensure they hold up to date contact details for customers. 
While I appreciate Mr R would  like Phoenix  to have done more,  Im not aware of any 
regulatory requirement for a business  to continue to track down a customer  when its made 
aware that the address  it holds is no longer  appropriate.  Phoenix needed to send out annual 
statements  which Im satisfied it would have done  if it had the correct  address. But I dont 
think it was required to do any more  than that when  it was made  aware Mr R had moved 
away. 
I think it was Mr Rs responsibility to keep Phoenix up to date with any change of address  
in the same way that he had a responsibility  to keep other businesses that he had a 
relationship with updated. I know  Mr R says he wasnt  aware that he held a plan with 
Phoenix, but he does accept that he signed an application form which should have made 
him aware  that he some form of relationship with it, even if he wasnt  aware  of the exact  
nature and even  though he would originally have  dealt  with Britannic Assurance. Im satisfied 
that had he contacted Britannic Assurance regarding his address it would have updated  it at 
that point  and the information would have  been integrated into Phoenixs records  when it 
took over the administration of his plan.  
Poor performance of the plan
Mr R says hes lost out on investment growth over the years because  had he been made 
aware of the poor performance  of the plan he would have transferred it elsewhere. 
Possible poor investment  performance alone  isnt something we would normally  use as a 
reason to uphold  a complaint. The very nature of investments means  their value  can 
fluctuate depending on a number of factors. And these arent usually  factors the plan 
provider is able to control.  However,  what I would expect is to be satisfied that the 
investment strategy  was suitable for Mr Rs circumstances in the first place. And I can see 
the recommendation was made  to invest in a default, relatively  cautious  with-profits fund. 
Given Mr Rs age and financial experience at the time I think  thats a reasonable fund 
recommendation to have  made.
So I cant safely say Mr R was invested in an unsuitable fund and theres  no evidence to 
show that Phoenix had any agreement to give Mr R ongoing financial advice around his 
plan. So I think it would  have been Mr Rs responsibility to have requested any advice  
through Phoenix or any other adviser.
And I can accept this may have led to Mr R switching his fund or his whole plan elsewhere. 
But as Ive already said it wasnt Phoenixs  fault that he didnt receive  any annual 
statements, for that reason I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that 
it was Phoenixs fault that he couldnt consider changing his investment strategy either.
my final decision
Ref: DRN03357084For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0335708