K821x#15Complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the progress of his claim, and the subsequent decision not to pay for 
repairs, on his car insurance policy with U K Insurance  Limited (UKI), following  an accident.
Any reference to UKI in this decision includes its agents.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2021  concluding that Mr Ms complaint should  be 
upheld in part. I also set out what UKI should do to put things  right. I attach a redacted  
version of my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. Mr M accepted my provisional  decision.  UKI didnt  respond. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  overall conclusions as set out in my provisional 
decision for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require U K Insurance Limited to:
(a) assess whether Mr M has a valid claim for accommodation and hire car costs, and if
he has a valid claim pay this in line with the policy terms;
(b) add 8% simple interest* to the above from the date he paid for them until the date of
settlement;
(c) pay the sum of £2,000 minus any applicable  excesses  in line with the policy  terms;
(d) add 8%* simple interest to the above from 30 September 2018 to the date of
settlement; and
(e) pay Mr M £400 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also
give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02973852My provisional decision
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the progress  of a claim, and the subsequent  decision not to pay for
repairs, on his car insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI),  following an accident.
Any reference  to UKI in this decision includes  its agents.
Background
In July 2018  Mr Ms was involved in a car accident.  The accident  took place  in France and
there were no other vehicles involved.
Mr M made  a claim under his car insurance policy.  UKI arranged and carried  out an
inspection of the car when it was at a French garage. Mr M says that the person  who carried
out the inspection was made aware, by the French garage, that they were  going  to carry out
the necessary repairs to the car by using  second hand parts to keep the cost down. Mr M
says he didnt  hear anything further from UKI so, after the necessary repairs  had been
completed, he drove his vehicle back to the UK.
On his return  from the UK Mr M continued  with his claim and wanted to be reimbursed  the
amount he had paid for the repairs,  accommodation costs  and a hire car whilst he was in
France. In total he was claiming  for around £7,000.
UKI arranged  for an engineer to inspect Mr Ms car when  it was back in the UK. This
inspection highlighted that the repairs  that had been completed werent of a satisfactory
quality and, due to the extent of the damage, there were  still some structural issues with the
car.
Unhappy with the progress  of his claim,  Mr M complained to UKI in October 2018.  UKI
agreed that there had been some delays in the handling of the claim and paid him £100 to
recognise this.
Mr M referred  his complaint to this service  in March 2019 as he said hed had no further
update on his claim  and it had still not been resolved.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She thought  that UKI had handled
Mr Ms claim in line with his policy and that he shouldnt have had any repairs  carried out
without confirming these with UKI. UKI told our investigator that, based on the engineers
report, the car was a Category B total loss.
In response to our investigators view Mr M said that hed never  been made  aware  that his
vehicle had been deemed a total loss and had been driving his vehicle  since his return to the
UK. He said hed had the repairs carried out on his car as the French garage had made the
person carrying out the inspection  aware of the plans to repair the car using second hand
parts.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
Ive noted that during  the course of our investigation UKI reinsured Mr Ms vehicle on a new
policy. This was looked into as a separate complaint so wont form part of this decision.
My first provisional decision
I had previously issued a provisional  decision. A copy of my provisional  decision is attached  to this 
decision. In brief, my provisional findings were:
Ref: DRN02973853I was satisfied that UKI had dealt with Mr Ms claim  for the repairs in line with his policy terms.
I wasnt persuaded that UKI had assessed  Mr Ms claim for accommodation and hire car 
costs in line with his policy.
I wasnt satisfied that UKI had told Mr M that his vehicle was a Category B total loss and that 
overall, Mr Ms claim had been poorly  handled and still appeared  not to have been settled.
On this basis, my provisional  conclusion  was that the complaint should be upheld.  I said I was minded 
to ask UKI to:
(a) assess whether  Mr M has a valid claim  for accommodation  and hire car costs,  and if
he has a valid claim pay this in line with the policy terms;
(b) add 8% simple interest*  to the above  from the date he paid for them  until the date of
settlement;
(c) pay the total loss settlement in line with the policy  terms;
(d) add 8%* simple  interest to the above  from the date of the accident to the date of
settlement; and
(e) pay Mr M £400 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
I invited further comments from both parties before  I reconsidered  the complaint.  Mr M accepted my 
provisional decision.  UKI didnt. In response to the provisional decision UKI provided:
A statement of truth from the UK engineer who inspected Mr Ms car in October 2018.  In the 
statement of truth, the engineer explains that he discussed  the outcome  of the claim with Mr 
M and that the repairs that had been  carried  out were substandard,  the car was deemed to be 
unroadworthy and categorised as a B classification.
It also said that it had told Mr M at the time he first made his claim  what  his policy covered 
him for regarding accommodation and hire car costs. As he had never  submitted any costs for 
these it wasnt fair for me to rule against  UKI for something  it has never been provided  
evidence of.
Following UKIs further  submissions, I wrote back to it. I explained:
Following the engineers statement of truth,  I was satisfied that it had told Mr M that his car 
had been categorised  as a B classification  and was unroadworthy.
Although Mr M may not have supplied  UKI with his hire car and accommodation costs I still 
considered it reasonable for his claim for these two costs to be considered  in line with his 
policy terms.
I remained  concerned with the length  of time it had taken for UKI to arrange for the UK 
engineers visit and whether  it was necessary for it to have let Mr M know that his vehicle  was 
unroadworthy. I thought that the French engineers report contained enough  information  for 
an in-house  engineer to review and provide  an answer  to Mr M. From  the information that had 
been provided  it appeared  that no action was taken  regarding the French  engineers report  
until Mr M called UKI six weeks  later, and it was this that prompted UKI to arrange for the UK 
engineers visit.
Ref: DRN02973854Although UKI had said that Mr M hadnt  continued with the claim  I disagreed. On 1 August 
2018 Mr M emailed UKI to ask them for assistance following  the French  engineers visit he 
received no response  to this email.
I didnt  consider it reasonable that UKI hadnt made an interim payment,  whilst the amount to 
be paid was in dispute, to allow him to replace his car. Instead he had been left in a position  
where he has continued to drive a car that has been categorised as a B classification and 
unroadworthy.
In response to my further comments, UKI maintained its position that a further payment for trouble 
and upset wasnt  appropriate. It said Mr M had been made  aware in France that his car would be a 
total loss and that he chose  to carry out the repairs and drive back  to the UK without engaging  with 
UKI. It said the UK engineers visit was required to consider if the repairs  that had been carried  out in 
France had been adequately carried out and they wouldve been unaware of the extent of the repairs  
until an inspection  had been carried out.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
UKI has supplied a statement of truth from the UK engineer. The statement of truth sets out the 
chronology of the engineers  interactions  with UKI and Mr M. 
Im satisfied that the engineer made Mr M aware that his vehicle had been categorised as a B 
classification and was unroadworthy. This inspection took place on the 26 September 2018  and the 
engineer has said that on the same day he called  UKI to explain  his inspection outcome. 
On the 12 October 2018, UKI contacted the engineer and explained to him that he should speak to Mr 
M and discuss a settlement  offer. The call with Mr M happened on the 15 October 2018 and the 
engineer explained UKIs stance on his claim  as well as the settlement offer.  
The engineer has said at this point Mr M made it clear that he wanted to recover all his outlay,  
including the costs  of the repairs that had been carried out in France.  
As set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that at the time Mr M first reported the accident, 
UKI had made him aware that it was more  likely than not that his car would  be a total loss and not to 
arrange for any repairs to be carried  out.
Throughout his complaint, Mr M has maintained  that he has never been told that his vehicle was a 
total loss, and it wasnt until our investigator issued their view that he became  aware of this. He 
explained that since the UK engineers visit he had continued  to drive the vehicle for a small number 
of miles on a weekly basis.
Although I accept that UKI has said that it told Mr M that his vehicle had been categorised as a B 
classification, they did so after the UK engineers visit and not the French  one. They  ought to have 
provided Mr M with the outcome of the French engineers  inspection. I appreciate UKI have said that 
the categorisations are not identical however there would  be enough information within the French  
engineers report for UKIs  inhouse engineer to assess from a UK perspective.  
Im not persuaded  that Mr M fully understood  the extent  of what  the engineer had told him. I say this 
because Mr M has continued to drive the car on a weekly basis,  using it to drive  his children  to and 
from school as well as visiting family in his town. I dont think  that these  are the actions of someone 
who has fully understood that his vehicle  was unroadworthy. This is supported  by Mr Ms testimony, 
when he has explained  that he has never received anything in writing from UKI explaining this to him. 
Ive also noted that UKI hasnt provided  any evidence  of any written correspondence explaining to Mr 
M its decision  on his car.
Ref: DRN02973855So, although  UKI is satisfied  that it did make Mr M aware  of his cars condition,  Im not satisfied that 
he fully understood  its position or the implications  of him continuing to use his car.
Ive also considered the customer service Mr M received from when he raised his claim. He provided 
UKI with the details of the garage where  his vehicle  was held, UKI provided an engineer  to carry out 
an assessment but then they made no further contact with Mr M even when he asked  them for 
assistance. On 1 August  Mr M emailed UKI, within  the email he asks:
I have been told that I need  to contact  you to find out what is the next step for me to do and to know 
as I have not a clue on what going on, please can you and I need  to let me know are the procedures 
on having my car fixed  and bring my family back home.
There was no contact  from UKI with Mr M from this point  until he called them upon his return to the 
UK to ask for an update  on his claim. UKI have said that Mr Ms actions are not those they usually see 
from someone who has had an accident in a foreign  country. And they have suggested he didnt 
continue with his claim. Ive not seen any evidence  that would suggest to UKI that Mr M was not 
continuing with his claim. 
The French engineers findings were sent to UKI on the 13 August and a subsequent  copy was 
provided again on the 28 August. There was no communication between UKI and Mr M until he called  
it on the 13 September to ask for help with which claim  forms he needed  to complete.
In its submissions to this service UKI said When a car is damaged abroad, UKI instructs (its foreign 
agent) to inspect the car and report to UKI. The communication of the inspection outcome is UKIs 
responsibility. I cant  see this happened.  My emphasis has been added.
So UKI has identified that it didnt make  Mr M aware  of the outcome of the French  engineers 
inspection and so he wasnt aware of its total loss status  until 15 October  2018,  no further action was 
taken on his claim  until he contacted it some 6 weeks after the initial  inspection had taken place.  I 
have seen no evidence to explain to me why this delay  occurred and UKI has already  accepted that it 
delayed the progress of Mr Ms claim  and paid him £100 to recognise this.
UKI has said that it couldnt  tell Mr M the outcome  of his claim until the UK engineer  had inspected  his 
car to see if the repairs  had been carried out to a satisfactory standard  and meant that his car was still 
roadworthy. 
Im not persuaded  by this. Whilst I understand that UKI will have wanted to assess the quality of the 
repair work to Mr Ms car once they were made aware  he was back  in the UK having had repairs 
carried out to his vehicle, they ought to have progressed  his claim as soon as the French engineers 
report had been received  on 13 August 2018. 
UKI received  an email from its agent in France setting out that Mr Ms car had been deemed an 
economical TOTAL LOSS.  So, it knew at this point that the maximum  it would pay Mr M, in line with 
the policy  terms,  would have been the pre-accident value of the car, minus  his policy excess. And as 
the email from UKI mentioned above shows, UKI failed to do this until the UK engineer had inspected 
his car nearly two months later.
UKI has said that it hadnt received any further correspondence from Mr M after the UK engineers 
visit. Therefore,  no further action has been taken on his claim and Mr M was able to reinsure his car 
with another insurance provider, underwritten  by UKI.
I dont consider it reasonable  for UKI not to have taken any further action  on Mr Ms claim. As 
mentioned above, Mr M has continued to drive a car that is considered  unroadworthy and has also 
been placed in a position  where he has been unable  to replace his car.
Ref: DRN02973856UKI had enough information on 13 August 2018 to assess  Mr Ms claim, the ought to have let him 
know at this point that his vehicle  was a total loss and provided him with a valuation offer. Following a 
request for the documents they require  to make  payment,  a total loss payment should have been 
made. Had this been done by UKI Mr M would likely  have received at least an interim  payment by 30 
September 2018.
I accept that Mr M is unhappy with, and disputes,  the amount that UKI will pay him in relation to his 
car. He would like it to cover the costs he paid for the repair work  in France. As explained in my 
provisional decision,  Im satisfied that Mr M should not have carried  out any repair work  to his car 
prior to approval from UKI and so the most he will receive is the total loss value of the car at the time 
of his loss, less any applicable deductions.
Mr Ms policy sets out that the most UKI will pay is the market value of his vehicle at the time of the 
loss. As a service  we find the market guides the most persuasive evidence  of market  value and so I 
consulted three guides, CAP, Glass and Cazana which provided me with the following  values, £2,000, 
£2,320 and £1,626.  
UKIs valuation report suggests the valuation offered is £1,250 minus any applicable excess. I dont 
think this is a fair valuation, so Im minded  to award £2,000 as a fair reflection of the market value of 
Mr Ms vehicle  at the date of loss. UKI should deduct any applicable excesses from this amount.
UKI have said there  was a deduction to the valuation due to some  pre-existing damage to the vehicle, 
however I havent been provided with this quantified and based on the photographs  within the 
engineers report I dont  agree any deductions would be fair due to the age of the vehicle. 
My view is that UKI could  have made an interim payment  to Mr M whilst  the overall amount to be paid 
was in dispute.  This would have allowed him to potentially make other arrangements or put down a 
deposit towards a new car, rather than continue to drive  a car that had been deemed as 
unroadworthy.
The fact that this didnt happen would have undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset as well as 
placing him in an unenviable financial position.
My view of UKI assessing whether Mr M has a valid claim  for hire car costs and accommodation costs 
remains unchanged from my provisional  decision. Although Mr M may not have provided  UKI with the 
information it needed to assess whether he has a valid claim for these  under his policy, I dont 
consider it to be unreasonable for it to assess this now subject  to Mr M providing it with the 
information it needs.
In summary, Im not satisfied  that Mr Ms claim has been handled well by UKI and its poor claim  
handling has undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset. In addition to the £100 it has already  paid Mr 
M, I award him an additional £400.
UKI should assess whether  Mr M had a valid claim  for accommodation and hire car costs in
line with his policy terms. If it accepts, he did, it should pay him the amount  he is owed plus
8% simple interest from the date he paid for them until the date of settlement.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by 14 February  2021, my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld in part.
In full and final settlement  of it, Im minded to require U K Insurance Limited to:
(a) assess whether  Mr M has a valid claim  for accommodation  and hire car costs,  and if
he has a valid claim pay this in line with the policy terms;
Ref: DRN02973857(b) add 8% simple interest*  to the above  from the date he paid for them  until the date of
settlement;
(c) pay the sum of £2,000 minus any applicable excesses in line with the policy terms;
(d) add 8%* simple  interest to the above  from 30 September 2018 to the date of
settlement; and
(e) pay Mr M £400 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
*If U K Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much  it has taken  off. It should also
give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0297385