K820x#14complaint
The full details of Miss Bs complaint   all the elements - is set out in the provisional decision 
dated 15 November  2019 which is attached to this final decision and forms part of it. 
Miss Bs complaint is against  Gain Credit  LLC, trading as Lending Stream. 
background 
As I have already  mentioned,  my provisional decision dated 15 November 2019 is attached.  
In it I explained  that I was planning not to uphold Miss Bs complaint and gave  time to both 
parties to respond  to it. The reply date of 29 November 2019 has passed. Miss B has 
responded with several points and some  documents. I will address those points below. 
Lending Stream has not responded. 
my findings 
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Miss B raises  issues surrounding this service and my competency and these can be 
addressed to the service as a separate  issue if she so wishes.  Id like to focus on the main 
points of Miss Bs financial  complaint in order to bring these issues to a close  and to gain 
some finality  for both parties  - and that is what I have done.  
In my provisional decision I requested that if either party had any points to add or to explain 
that they be accompanied by fresh evidence. Miss B has sent to me documents  I have  seen 
before. Miss B says, again,  that these show she does not owe Lending Stream  any money 
because the balance was written off by the third-party agency.  
Having reviewed all the evidence, including having made  additional enquiries  with that 
agency, I am as clear  as I can be that the agencys references  in some of its internal 
documents to write off and a balance of £0 relate to the return  of the Lending Stream  
account to Lending Stream. It does not mean  that the balance was written off for Miss B. 
And Miss B has been told that by both the agency and Lending Stream.   
I have re-read the email  from the agency  to Miss B dated 16 July 2018. I know that Miss B 
will have seen this as it formed part of the SAR documentation sent to her following the ICO 
complaint she had submitted. In that email the agency confirms to her that it was instructed 
by its client  Lending Stream  to collect the outstanding balance. It acknowledged 
payments made by Miss B to Lending  Stream and to it which reduced the balance. 
A remaining balance  was left which was passed  back to its client, Lending Stream, on 
12 July 2018 so that it (Lending Stream)  could deal with it. 
As well as this email, Miss B was informed  on the telephone by a Lending Stream  
representative in July 2018 that the outstanding balance was £162.80. I have referred to this 
telephone conversation in my provisional decision.  I have a transcript of it. During  that 
conversation, Miss B agreed to pay it down at a rate of £12 a month for 14 cycles. This 
makes it clear that Miss B accepted that was the position, that there was still a debt to pay, 
and agreed to do something about  it. 
Ref: DRN00136372The overall picture leads me to come to the decision that both Lending Stream  and the 
agency have informed Miss B that there is an outstanding balance,  and Miss B owes  it to 
Lending Stream and needs to pay it.
For the reasons  I have  set out here and in my provisional decision which  forms part of this 
final decision, I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
So, I do not uphold  Miss Bs complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
my provisional  decision appears on the next page
Ref: DRN00136373my provisional decision dated 15 November 2019
complaint
Miss B complained  to Gain Credit LLC (trading  as Lending Stream)  in early 2018.  Part of her 
complaint was that she felt one loan taken in July 2017 had been lent irresponsibly and that there was 
no evidence of affordability. 
Miss B also stated that Lending Stream ignored  her correspondence  in relation to payment offers. 
Miss B told this service how she wanted Lending  Stream  to put things right.  Her first complaint form to 
this service was dated 5 February 2018 and in that she asked that she wanted Lending Stream to:
Yes, respond to whether interest is compound interest, respond  to offer of payment 1/1/2018
The later complaint form has a different set of requests as to what  she wished  Lending Stream  to do 
to put things  right. This is reproduced here:
To provide details on the compound interest, write by response about reduced payments sent on 
1/1/2018 and stop limiting  my ability to negotiate directly and comply with the responsible lending 
regulations. 
The complaint was dealt with in two parts  the irresponsible lending  of the one loan to Miss B and 
then the other  issues surrounding repayment of it.
Miss B has also raised additional issues surrounding matters for the Information Commissioner and 
fraudulent matters. Miss B can raise these separate points with the other regulatory bodies and so 
these are not matters for me to resolve as part of this complaint about the lending decision  and the 
amount of the debt owed.  
background
Miss B took out a loan with Lending Stream in July 2017. It was due to be repaid in six instalments. 
These were not all paid. She was in arrears in November 2017. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint  twice. In August 2018 he thought that Lending 
Stream had not lent the one loan to Miss B irresponsibly and so he did not think anything  needed to 
be put right by Lending  Stream. 
Miss B had complained about the outstanding debt amount and the other matters in her complaint 
form and so our adjudicator sent an additional view in November  2018. Miss B disputed  how much 
she owed to Lending Stream. 
Our adjudicator was not able to conclude  that this debt had been reduced or that a repayment plan 
had been agreed. He was aware that Miss B had offered to repay a certain amount each month from 
January 2018, but not that this had been agreed by Lending Stream or a third-party debt collector. 
Miss B has continued  to send to us many  documents, emails and explanations from which its clear  
that she does not agree  with our adjudicator.  Recently I have asked Lending Stream  for recorded  
calls or transcripts  of calls which took place between Miss B and Lending Stream. I have received 
those transcripts for two calls which  assist on determination of the facts.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN00136374Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules  and good 
industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
As there  are several aspects  to this complaint, I have dealt with them  in sections.
I have read everything that has been  sent to me in relation this matter and a linked complaint relating 
to a third-party debt agent (the agency). For me to set out every detail  would lead to an 
unnecessarily long decision. I have distilled the issues and come to my decision. 
irresponsible lending  of the July 2017 loan 
Before lending  money  to a consumer,  a lender  should take proportionate steps to understand whether 
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list 
a number of things  a lender could take into account before agreeing  to lend. 
The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was 
due to be repaid. 
I have seen Miss Bs application to Lending Stream  from 23 July 2017. She stated she was employed 
full time by a company (which I understand to be her own business), that she earned £900 a month 
and that her monthly expenditure was £292. Miss B requested a loan of £1,000.  
Lending Stream has shown me records which  suggest  that it calculated affordability on a higher 
monthly expenditure amount  of £450 than the £292 Miss B had said.  It has explained  that it did this 
because the £292 amount  offered seemed low. This seems reasonable and builds into its calculations 
a margin. Lending Stream calculated Miss Bs disposable  income was £450.  It did not approve her 
requested sum of £1,000, and it approved a loan of £360 payable in instalments.
Lending Stream has sent to me the agreement dated 23 July 2017 which  gives details of the loan for 
£360 and that this principal sum plus the interest was due to be repaid  in instalments from 25 August 
2017 until 26 January 2018. The amounts varied and it was instalment two which  was going to be the 
highest scheduled repayment  at just under £173. The total due was £720.
The checks I would have expected  Lending  Stream to have carried out for a first loan from a new 
customer would have been to know about the applicants income and expenditure. I think  that in Miss 
Bs case Lending Stream  had this from Miss B and it chose not to lend her £1,000 but a lesser  sum of 
£360. The instalment repayment sums would likely have appeared  affordable to Lending Stream.  I do 
not think  that it needed to do more.  
I do not plan to uphold this part of Miss Bs complaint  about  irresponsible lending.
formal complaints reply timescales
Miss B has expressed concern about Lending  Streams lack of response in relation to her formal 
complaint. 
Miss Bs complaint  was acknowledged on 29 January 2018. Lending Stream sent Miss B its final 
response by email on 23 March 2018 which is within  the time period I would  have expected. 
Ref: DRN00136375I can see that Miss B was frustrated with what she thought was a lack of response from Lending 
Stream. For the complaint process Lending Stream has complied with the time requirements  required 
by the regulators rules  which govern  it. 
I do not plan to uphold this part of Miss Bs complaint.  
the 1 January 2018 email 
Lending Streams said that it never received Miss Bs email of 1 January  2018 (stated in its final 
response email of March 2018). The copy correspondence I have seen sent to me by Lending Stream 
shows that many of the email streams included Miss Bs 1 January 2018 email.  So I do think that it is 
highly likely Lending Stream received that email.
some of the events leading to the repayment plan 
In August 2017 Lending Stream has informed us that Miss B called it to ask about the automated 
payment system, and then in September 2017 she called  Lending  Stream to set up a payment 
arrangement. The brief note I have been sent about this telephone  conversation states  that this was 
done. I do not have further details. 
But the note shows me that Miss B was in touch  with Lending  Stream relatively soon after taking the 
loan and demonstrates she needed help early on. This also shows me that Miss B was not averse  to 
speaking to Lending Stream  on the telephone having done  it twice in 2017.  
In December 2017 Miss B removed her permission for Lending Stream to use the revolving  
payment/automatic ongoing use of debit card. In December 2017 Miss B emailed Lending Stream  to 
offer to pay a certain sum each month to clear the debt. 
Lending Stream acknowledged and confirmed in December 2017 that the Automated Payment 
System for her card had been stopped and in line with Miss Bs request it gave her the account  
details and alternative payment methods  she could use to pay the loan.  
Miss B wrote to Lending Stream on 1 January 2018  and made this proposal: I require to meet  
payment at £24 a month for 6 months expressly by way of an instalment  plan, then clear the amount 
outstanding on the 6th month.  Miss B had made a £24 payment that day and said she would make 
the next at the end of February 2018.  
In another email around that time Miss B wrote to say: I require to meet payment at £24 a month for 
6 months expressly by way of an instalment plan, then clear the amount outstanding  on the 6th 
month.
She received a Notice of Arrears on 26 January 2018  and then a Default Notice dated 
28 January 2018 giving her until 16 February 2018 to repay all the arrears of £186.80.  It gave the total 
outstanding balance as £258.80.  
A draft Statement of Case in a formal legal  style dated  13 February  2018, which  appears to have 
been drafted  by Miss B and sent to Lending Stream  states on its page 2 that Miss B lodged an email 
of dissatisfaction  as early  on as 1 January 2018  to state that payments monthly  of a lesser  amount 
would be made followed by a full and final payment on the 6 month of payments.
And in an email to us on 25 March 2018 Miss B confirmed that £24 per month is being  paid
So I think that Miss B always  intended  to repay this debt and was clear as to how she was planning to 
do it. 
Around the same time that Lending Stream acknowledged Miss Bs formal  complaint in January  2018,  
it sent to her a formal Default Notice dated 28 January 2018 and requested that she pay in full by 16 
Ref: DRN00136376February 2018. This dovetails with an email from Lending Stream to Miss B on 16 February 2018 to 
say that her loan account had been terminated. 
On 17 February 2018 Lending Stream said that it was going to transfer her account  to a third party  
debt collecting agency.  Ill call this the agency. I have set out here what Lending Stream  said.  I have 
removed the telephone number and the name of the agency referred  to for confidentiality reasons.
Weve tried many  times to collect  the outstanding balance on your loan, and to contact you to discuss 
an alternative, affordable, payment arrangement. In 7 days we will assign your account to  a debt 
collection agency.
Its important that you call us today on 0203 **** to discuss an affordable payment arrangement.  We 
are ready  to help.
After these emails  Miss B offered again specific sums for a certain  period of time to clear  the debt. 
And by this stage the agency  was emailing and texting her as well which would  have added  to the 
rather confusing situation. 
I explain in more  detail  the agency involvement  in the next section of this provisional decision.  From 
27 February 2018 it was emailing and texting Miss B as well. Miss B was writing to the agency making 
similar offers  to repay to those she was making  to Lending Stream. 
On 23 March  2018  Lending  Stream complaints department  sent its final response to Miss B by email 
to invite  her again to make arrangements. I referred to this final response email earlier. It said:
we would  like to confirm that Lending Stream would never retreat in extending our support, 
whenever required.  Hence, we find it worth mentioning that the outstanding balance (£234.80) can be 
paid in a full one time payment or in an affordable payment  arrangement.
This final response from Lending Stream did explain to Miss B the agencys role and that it explained  
that the agency  works on behalf of Lending Stream tohelp you eventually repay  your loans...
It also used  this email to explain to Miss B about the daily interest charged at 0.8% and referred  her to 
the original  agreement for details. So while  this may not have addressed Miss Bs specific request 
about compound interest (referred to in her complaint form to this service and set out in the 
complaint section of this provisional  decision), it did explain that the loan she took was a daily 
interest product. 
So, on balance I think that this was a satisfactory  explanation albeit not a detailed one about  the 
interest charged on the loan. 
the outstanding  sums
The agency  has been the subject of a separate complaint and I have  reviewed all the information on 
that file including  the information  received  recently at my request. From  that, I know that the agency 
was instructed by Lending  Stream on 24 February 2018 and it was informed that the balance on the 
account for Miss B was £258.80. It ceased  to deal with the account on 12 July 2018 because  it has 
said that Lending Stream asked for the account back. 
The agency  started  to communicate with Miss B by email and by text to her mobile on 27 February 
2018. During  the afternoon  of 27 February 2018 Miss B emailed the agency making it quite clear she 
wished to repay in the following way: five lots of £24 each month followed by a payment  in month 6 to 
clear the balance. She had been offering a similar repayment structure to Lending Stream  as I have 
outlined earlier in this provisional decision. And her explanations to this service  when she first brought  
the complaint to us included similar wording to those used in her proposed repayment plans to 
Lending Stream and to the agency. 
Ref: DRN00136377On 28 February 2018 Miss B paid £24 which was accepted and allocated to her account  a few days 
later. 
Also on 28 February  2018 Miss B received  a text from the agency which was marked Urgent and 
said:  Our client has just authorised a substantial reduction in your balance!! Call [agency name] on 
01***** or visit [website  name] to settle. Ref: LS*****0223
My view is that this text and the following events have led to some confusion  over exactly  how much  
is owed by Miss B. 
Currently Lending Stream says Miss B owes it £134.80.  
Miss B says that the text offer from the agency to repay a lesser amount combined  with the emails 
from it which appeared to give her an internet link to an account, all pointed  to her believing she owed 
£100. Miss B says she has paid three lots of £24 plus two lots of £12 and a £4 which all add up to 
£100. So, Miss B says she owes no more.  I understand  that Miss B has made no more payments 
since October 2018. 
I have not seen anything to confirm that the agency agreed to any debt reduction to £100.  
But I have seen from the correspondence going back to 1 January 2018 Miss B was offering 5 x £24 
and then on the 6th month to repay the balance.  I have referred to these earlier in this provisional 
decision. I think  that as Miss B had been offering  this several times to Lending Stream  before any 
agency involvement, then I think her import  was clear: she was going  to repay £24 a month for 5 
months and then pay off the balance in the sixth month. 
And the emails  to this service (around  May 2018)  about this £100 are clear in their import-  that she 
did not think  that the agency had a contractual  relationship with her and was not wishing to deal with 
the agency. So, I think that Miss B at first said that she disagreed with the agency involvement  and 
was not clear about this £100. Later Miss B seems to have  altered her position  and said that she had 
paid enough to reach the £100  and so she need not pay more. 
I disagree that Miss B does not need to pay Lending Stream more and I explain why here. 
Miss B would have  received  the Lending Stream final response  email on 23 March 2018 in which  it 
confirmed that the balance was £234.80.  She would  have been placed  on notice that the outstanding 
balance was not £100, but it was £234.80. 
This sum does in fact fit with the agency evidence  that when it was instructed  on 27 February  2018 
the balance on Miss Bs account was £258.80. And it fits with Miss Bs evidence that she paid £24 on 
28 February 2018 which  appears to have  registered  on the account and therefore  reduced the 
balance to £234.80 - (£258.80 minus £24).
In June 2018  I have seen emails between Miss B and Lending Stream where she was asking for an 
up-to-date balance. She was told that it was £162.80 on 5 June 2018.  
I have been given lists of Miss Bs telephone contact dates with Lending Stream  and one was on 3 
July 2018 when Miss B called to say she had financial  difficulties. I have  a transcript of that 
conversation between Miss B and a Lending Stream Representative  on 3 July 2018. During  that call 
Miss B was informed  that the outstanding balance was £162.80. Recent payments made  in March 
and May 2018  were confirmed  and Miss B accepted that those had been made. Miss B offered to pay 
more each  month going forward. 
A new payment arrangement  was set up for £12 a month commencing 4 July 2018 and then on the 
3rd of each month until September 2019. It was discussed on the telephone that it would be 14 
cycles.
Ref: DRN00136378In early July 2018 Miss B wrote to us to say that a new repayment plan had been arranged  and that 
the agency was not involved. I know from the agency that Lending Stream  took back the account on 
12 July 2018. The new arrangement was for £12 a month and so the combination of what  both parties  
have told us leads me to be as sure as I can be that this was the position from the summer of 2018. 
And it also leads me to think that any reduced balance  of £100 agreed between  Miss B and the 
agency could not have been in place in the summer  of 2018  as Miss B has acknowledged  the 
outstanding balance during  the call of 3 July 2018 and agreed to pay £12 a month going forward to 
clear it. 
Miss B has written to us to confirm that she paid £12 on 3 July 2018 (which fits with the telephone 
conversation transcript  I refer to above) and another £12 on 2 August 2018. It appears two more 
payments (one was not £12) have  been paid in August and October 2018.  After that Miss B ceased to 
pay and so theres  more that needs  to be paid. 
I have been given a transcript of a telephone call between Miss B and two Lending Stream 
representatives on 13 November 2018. 
During this call Miss B raises the point about only owing £100. And Miss B had to be reminded that a 
payment arrangement had been agreed in July 2018. Miss B said that she felt she had paid £100 
between March and September/October 2018  and so the account could be closed. Miss B asked for 
an account balance  and was informed that it was £134.80. Then disputed  it because  she said she had 
paid it off. 
I have not seen anything concrete to suggest that the balance on the account was reduced to £100. It 
may be unfortunate that the agency emails were unclear. But the fact that Miss B was informed in July 
2018 that the balance was £162.80 and then she agreed to pay it down at a rate of £12 a month for 
14 cycles makes  it clear that Miss B accepted that was the position  and agreed to do something 
about it. 
This fits with Lending Streams confirmation that the balance is £134.80. 
The overall  picture  leads me to come to a provisional  decision that the sum outstanding is £134.80.  
And Miss B owes that amount to Lending Stream and needs to pay it.
provisional conclusions
Having looked at all the documents  and submissions  provided to me, my provisional decision in 
relation to each of the particular points in Miss Bs complaint forms and other points which I consider 
need to be cleared up are:
1)the loan was not lent to Miss B irresponsibly  in July 2017;
2)the responsible  lending conditions  Miss B refers to are not relevant when it comes to the 
repayment of a debt. These were relevant at the time a lending decision was made which  for 
Miss B was in July 2017. I have made my provisional decision in relation to the irresponsible 
lending part of Miss Bs complaint earlier  in this decision;
3)Lending Stream explained to Miss B about the loan being a daily interest product of 0.8% 
each day which, while not detailed, was satisfactory as it explained  the type of interest 
charged;
4)Lending Stream explained that the agency acted on its behalf. The agency set up the 
repayment plan in line with what  she had requested.  So, I think  that it did what  she asked. 
Ref: DRN001363795)Lending Stream has not limited  Miss Bs ability to negotiate  directly as Miss B says in her 
complaint form.  From  December 2017 Lending Stream  has provided to Miss B the bank 
account details and methods  of payment  plus telephone numbers to make it easy for Miss B 
to finalise  this repayment plan. I have read 618 pages  of emails and I can see that this has 
been offered to Miss B on more than one occasion. So, I think  that Lending Stream  complied  
with Miss Bs request  in December  2017 and since then as well;
6)Miss B is mistaken that she owes a reduced sum. I have  explained this in detail in the section 
above and unless I receive additional and fresh  information to show me something different,  
then my provisional conclusion is that Miss B still owes Lending Stream  £134.80.
provisional decision 
My provisional  decision  is that I am planning not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
I will review the complaint  in two weeks.
end of provisional decision 
Ref: DRN0013637