K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc unfairly  restricted his access to and then closed a 
business current account he held with them. He would  like compensation for the financial 
loss, distress and upset this caused.
Background
Mr M held a number of different accounts  with HSBC, some of which  he held as a consumer 
and some he held as a sole trader.  He also held a joint current  account with his wife and had 
mandate over accounts in the name  of a limited company for which he acts as director.
This decision pertains  to a sole trader account  Mr M held. HSBC associate the account with 
three different businesses  he runs which arent  incorporated. Mr M also holds two other sole 
trader accounts in relation  to one of these  businesses. These held significantly higher 
balances and are the subject  of another complaint.
In early March 2019 HSBC decided to review all the accounts Mr M held or had mandate  
over, including the sole trader account. It placed  a block on all the accounts at the same 
time, preventing further transactions and access to the funds held in them.  Again, this 
included the sole trader account.
Mr M complained to HSBC shortly  after this. He said HSBCs actions and policy  were  
discriminatory and illegal, unfairly targeting him and his family because  of their nationality.  
HSBC said it was reviewing the accounts in view of its sanctions policy,  and it was entitled to 
restrict them in line with its regulatory and legal obligations and the account  terms. 
Mr M brought this complaint to us in early April 2019. He says HSBCs actions amount to a 
serious crime and are unjustifiable.  HSBC wrote to him in mid-April  and said it had 
completed its review. The letter said the sole trader account would be closed and gave two 
months notice to make alternative arrangements.
HSBC closed the account in June 2019, and in July 2019 the account  balance was set off 
against the balance of the commercial mortgage account he holds. 
An investigator at our service decided  not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. In summary they 
found: 
-HSBC were entitled to review  the account  in line with its regulatory and legal 
obligations. It could  also freeze  the account while  it conducted the review. Although 
the investigator had no reason  to doubt the impact this had on Mr M and the 
businesses for which  the account was used, this didnt  mean  HSBC  had done 
anything wrong.
-HSBC had applied  the terms of the account correctly when it decided to close the 
account. There was nothing to indicate it had unfairly based its decision on Mr Ms 
nationality. The funds  in the account no longer  remained as HSBC  had used them to 
offset the balance of the commercial mortgage  Mr M holds.
Mr M strongly disagreed  with these findings.  He said the investigator had made an error of 
fact, as the account in question held much  more in funds than the investigator had quoted. 
And it was clear these  funds had not been used to reduce  his mortgage balance. Indeed, at 
Ref: DRN04341922that time,  the funds were  still in accounts  he had no access to. He found the investigators 
answer to his complaint wholly unfair,  and reiterated he was the victim  of a crime.
The investigator clarified that their opinion was related  to a different account to the accounts 
to which  Mr M referred. There was likely some confusion because one of the businesses    
Mr M runs is associated  with more than one sole trader account.  The account the 
investigator had looked  at held a much smaller balance, and HSBC had provided evidence  
to show it had been used to reduce his mortgage. The other  accounts containing the 
balances he was referring to would be the subject of a new complaint.
Mr M again strongly disagreed with his complaint not being upheld. As a result.  hes asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision on this complaint, so the complaint has been  
passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so Ive decided  not to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as those given by the investigator.
I understand Mr M is frustrated that weve considered his complaints  separately.  I appreciate  
the decision of HSBC to freeze his accounts and the accounts he had mandate  over is to 
him one issue, deserving of one answer. But the accounts he held were separate  and were  
used for different purposes,  so do require separate investigations, answers  and final 
decisions if needed. 
Of course,  this doesnt mean I havent  recognised the brunt  of his argument and that this 
pertains to all of his complaints. Indeed, as I have made a final decision on another  of his 
related complaints, some of my findings are the same, as they are not account specific.  But I 
must consider his argument as it relates to the account this decision regards.
Our role
Mr M has said several times that HSBC have committed a crime and should be found 
criminally liable. I appreciate Mr M holds fast in his opinion  on this, so I think  its important to 
clarify what our role is in terms  of answering  the complaint he has brought  to us.
Only a court of law can decide criminal  liability. We have no such  power; nor were  we set up 
to consider whether a crime was committed as a matter of law. We are set up as an informal  
alternative to the courts. And as an ombudsman, it is incumbent on me to decide on an 
outcome which  Im satisfied is fair and reasonable in all the individual circumstances of a 
complaint. Part of this requires me to consider relevant law, rules  and regulations and 
industry practice when  reaching my decision.  
Its not possible for me to fine or penalise a business  for something  I consider its done 
wrong. This is the remit  of regulators,  who set many of the rules firms must follow  and who 
monitor firms  conduct. The regulators are the Financial Conduct Authority and the 
Prudential Regulation  Authority.
Could HSBC review  and restrict access to Mr Ms account?
Ref: DRN04341923HSBC has a wide variety of legal and regulatory  obligations it must  follow  when providing 
accounts to its customers. These obligations are ongoing and are not only relevant  to when 
an account is opened. In Mr Ms case, HSBC informed him it was reviewing the account in 
line with its sanctions  policy.
Sanctions can be very broad  and relate  to countries,  individuals,  trade and transactions. 
HSBC is expected to take measures to comply  with current  sanctions, which  means it has 
extensive things  it needs to be aware of and monitor. 
Sanctions are also just one of the many things HSBC must consider  to ensure its doing 
what it should. And if it didnt review  accounts and the activity taking place on them, it could 
risk serious penalties. So, having a sanctions  policy or other policies to mitigate against 
potential risks isnt by itself wrong.
I understand Mr M wants to know the exact  reasons  behind his account being  looked into. 
But I find that HSBC  isnt under an obligation to disclose those reasons, so I wont  be asking  
it to do so.
Mr M thinks HSBCs motives were discriminatory  and based  on his nationality. And I dont 
doubt he believes he was targeted unfairly, or that he was caused a great deal of upset and 
embarrassment. And its true HSBC should ensure its reasons for taking any action arent  
discriminatory - the relevant legislation here being the Equality  Act 2010, which HSBC 
should consider  when  making decisions that affect  individual customers. 
But, after considering the relevance  of the Equality Act 2010, alongside the importance of 
what HSBC needs  to do to ensure it complies with its obligations,  Im satisfied it restricting 
access to the account was for a legitimate purpose. And I dont find that purpose was based 
on Mr Ms nationality.
The length  of time the review took
Although HSBC is entitled to conduct a review, it should do so within  a reasonable period of 
time. So, it should still ensure it doesnt  cause  unnecessary delays.
I can see HSBC finished its review of the account  in mid-April 2019, almost one month and a 
half after the account first froze. Ive considered what it was doing  during this time and Im 
satisfied it followed the correct process  and didnt cause any unnecessary delays.  So, I find 
the review completed  within a reasonable time.
I appreciate Mr Ms inability to access the account during that time may have caused 
financial loss, a lot of embarrassment and inconvenience. But as I find HSBCs  actions  were  
legitimate and proportionate, Im not asking it to compensate him for losses  he or the 
businesses associated with this account experienced.
The account  closure and transfer of funds
HSBC gave notice  to Mr M  that  it would close this account in April 2019. Its letter indicated 
he had two months to make alternative  banking arrangements,  which is in line with the 
account terms. And, irrespective of those terms, I find this was enough time to open another  
account if he needed. It appears  he did open another  business  account with another bank.
Ref: DRN04341924Mr M couldnt however  access  the funds in his account after the notice period expired. In 
circumstances like this only certain  account terms apply. But having  considered  those terms. 
I think they were reasonably applied when considering the broader circumstances of this 
complaint.
The balance in the account  was also used to off-set the balance Mr M owed HSBC  under a 
commercial mortgage account he also holds with it. Ive looked into the terms of his account, 
and they are clear  that HSBC were  able to take this action. So, I dont think HSBC acted 
inappropriately by exercising its contractual right.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0434192