1Complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the way China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd has offered to
settle a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
When I refer to China Taiping,  Im also referring  to any of its agents  or representatives.
Mrs L has dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ive referred to her throughout my decision.
Background
Mrs L made a claim to China Taiping under her home insurance  policy  when she noticed 
damage to her ring. I understand the emerald stone  was chipped.  China Taiping accepted 
the damage was covered by the policy. Mrs L provided two quotes for replacing the emerald, 
with the lowest  at £9,500.
After China Taiping  received the quotes  it asked Mrs L to send the ring to its own jeweller for 
inspection and valuation,  which  she did. Mrs L became  concerned about the way China 
Taiping was handling the claim. She made a number of points. In summary  she said:
she was told the ring would be returned to her in up to ten days, but it had been over 
a month
the jeweller had removed  the stone from the ring without her permission
the jeweller wouldnt return the ring until a repair had been  completed  but she 
hadnt given permission for the jeweller  to carry out a repair
the jeweller said the claws holding the stone were likely to have been damaged whilst 
removing the stone
China Taiping said its jeweller had valued  the stone at £2,000. Taking into account the policy 
excess of £150,  it put forward  four options to Mrs L for how it would settle the claim:
1. Replace the stone with a similar  emerald and Mrs L would pay the excess;
2. Return the ring without the stone  and pay Mrs L £1,850;
3. Return the ring including  the stone  and pay Mrs L £1,600;
4. Replace the emerald with a different type of stone, with a value  of up to £1,850.
Mrs L didnt think any of the options  were  fair. She didnt think  China Taipings valuations 
were reasonable as they were significantly lower  than the quotes she had received.  And she 
didnt feel shed been given enough  information  about the emerald  China Taiping were  
suggesting under option  1 to be satisfied it was equivalent to the damaged  one. She 
complained.
Mrs L received the ring back  in March and said she thought it had been damaged whilst with 
the jewellers.
China Taiping said all four options  remained open to Mrs L. But it would increase the value 
from £1,850 to £2,000. It said Mrs L should  provide photographic evidence of the damage 
she thought was caused by the jeweller.
Unhappy with this response,  Mrs L referred  her complaint to this service  and our investigator 
considered it. He didnt  think  there was evidence to show  China Taiping had damaged  the 
ring or acted unfairly  when removing the stone from the ring to assess  it. But he said the 
settlement offer was unfair because Mrs L hadnt  been provided with specifications for the 
Ref: DRN06144552potential replacement stones. As a result she wouldnt be able to tell if the replacement 
stone was similar to the damaged one.
To settle  the claim fairly he suggested China Taiping offer to replace the damaged  stone 
with another of the same specification  and provide evidence of that to Mrs L. He said she 
could then accept  that or take a cash settlement  based  on the cost of the replacement  stone. 
And if China Taiping was unable to do that, it should  settle the claim to the value of the 
quotes Mrs L had provided, noting  a policy limit of £6,500 for the ring.
China Taiping didnt agree with our investigator. It said it was confident in the valuation it had 
given because its jewellers were qualified experts.  And it didnt agree the claim should be 
settled at the policy limit.
Mrs L didnt think it was fair that China Taiping should be given another opportunity  to 
consider the claim, given how long it had already  gone on for. She also questioned  what  
would happen  about the claw damage she reported after the ring was returned to her.
As an agreement wasnt reached, its been  passed  to me to make  a decision.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that China  Taiping hasnt offered a fair settlement for the claim,  so I intend to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its accepted the original  damage to the stone is covered by the policy.  The main dispute is
about how to settle the claim for that damage  fairly.
The policy sets out how contents claim will be settled. It says:
We can choose to settle  your claim by:
 Replacing;  or
 Reinstating; or
 Repairing; or
 Cash  payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest  equivalent  available in 
the current market.
China Taiping has offered to replace the damaged stone. But Im not satisfied its done so on 
a like-for-like or nearest equivalent basis as the policy terms require.
Mrs L has provided a copy of the original valuation document  setting out the specification of 
the ring, including the emerald stone. It gives a detailed description  of the stone,  including  
that its 0.98 carats.  The only information  Ive seen from China Taipings jeweller  about  the 
potential replacement emerald is that its 0.90 carats. That aspect alone  means  its not like-
for-like. It hasnt provided any other details to show what the specification of a replacement 
stone might be. So I cant tell whether the other  characteristics of the replacement are like-
Ref: DRN06144553for-like or broadly equivalent. Because of that Im not satisfied China Taipings suggested 
replacement is the nearest  equivalent to the damaged stone.
That means China Taiping  hasnt offered a reasonable replacement in line with its own 
policy terms. And because its valuation is based  on the cost of the unreasonable 
replacement, the cash settlement  options are also unreasonable.
One of the quotes Mrs L provided  was for the replacement of a 1.25 carat  emerald at 
£15,000-£22,000. As thats not like-for-like either,  Im not satisfied it would be fair to settle  
the claim based on this quote.
The other quote, at £9,500, seems to be like-for-like as the assessment is based on 
replacing an emerald  thats 0.98ct as described  in valuation.
China Taiping has pointed out that the ring, which also includes  platinum and diamonds, is 
insured for a total of £6,500. And valuation documents for the ring  the original from 2011 
and an updated  one in 2019   both value the entire  ring at around £6,000-£6,500. That 
same valuer estimated the emerald alone was worth  around £4,000.
Taking into account all the information  available to me about the value of the emerald,  I note 
a wide range of opinions.  The role of this service  isnt to provide  expert  valuations.  Its to 
consider the evidence available  in order to fairly resolve a dispute between  the parties.
One option to settle the claim is the one the investigator proposed. Essentially that China 
Taiping return to its jeweller  to complete a valuation that is based on a like-for-like 
replacement and provide evidence to Mrs L of the specification used. It could  then update 
the values in the four options given above  and she could choose one to settle  the claim.
However, Mrs L considers  China  Taiping  has had enough time to complete such an exercise  
and it shouldnt be given  more time.  Considering the claim was made two years ago, I can 
understand her point  of view. And when the investigator asked China Taiping to reconsider 
the valuation along these  lines recently,  it maintained its valuation  was fair. So, Im not 
persuaded that taking this option is likely  to bring  about a resolution.
Ive explained  above why Im not satisfied  China Taipings offer is reasonable based on the 
policy terms, so it wouldnt be fair to settle  the claim based on that. I find the valuation  
carried out by the valuer who sold the ring the most persuasive of the others. They gave a 
detailed description  of the ring when they sold it in 2011  and used that same description in 
2019 to value the entire ring, as well as the emerald stone alone. After deducting the £150 
excess, that means China  Taiping should  pay £3,850 in order to settle the claim.
Ref: DRN0614455Geismar v Sun Alliance and London Insurance Ltd [1978] QB 383
K821x#15Since the complaint has been  with this service, Mrs L has provided photos of the claws  she 
thinks China  Taipings jeweller damaged. It maintains its jeweller  didnt cause any damage.  
But after reviewing the photos it has made an offer of £180 to settle this part of the dispute.
This offer was put to Mrs L but I understand she hasnt accepted it.
Theres limited  evidence  about how the damage may have happened.  I havent seen any 
evidence to show it would cost more than £180 to repair the damage.  So Im satisfied  this is 
a reasonable offer.
Ive considered the other points Mrs L made about  the claim. Overall  Im satisfied it wasnt 
handled as well as it should have been. At the time of its response to Mrs Ls complaint, 
China Taiping had been handling the claim for around seven months  and the offer it made 
then wasnt a fair one. There  were  avoidable  delays up to this point.
I dont think it was unreasonable  to remove the stone to assess it or to take around a month 
to do so. But better communication with Mrs L about  what would be involved in assessing 
the ring and the time it would  take would have meant none of it came as an unwelcome 
surprise to her later on. Because  of these avoidable problems, Im satisfied China Taiping 
should pay Mrs L £100 compensation to reflect the unnecessary distress  caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs L responded to say she accepted  my provisional decision.
China Taiping also responded. It said Mrs L would have been obliged to declare the ring 
when bringing  it into the UK, and to pay the appropriate customs duty, in order  for the item to 
be a legal good. It asked for evidence to show the duty had been paid to ensure it wouldnt 
come into possession of an illegal  good, citing the case of Geismar  v Sun Alliance. 
Alternatively, it said it could make a deduction from the claim settlement value for salvage.
The investigator said he thought the item would only become an illegal good if Mrs L had 
knowingly avoided paying the relevant duty  and the responsibility  was on China Taiping to 
show this. Similarly,  if China  Taiping thought Mrs L would benefit  from the claim settlement 
as a result  of not paying duty, China Taiping was responsible for showing this. And lastly,  if 
China Taiping wished to suggest a settlement which differed  from that set out in my 
provisional decision, it should explain what that is and why its being  proposed.
China Taiping said all goods over a certain  value  brought into the UK must have the 
appropriate duty paid. And if theyre not, the goods  become illegal. So Mrs L should 
evidence the relevant  duty was paid.  Or China Taiping could reduce the settlement value by 
£300. It also said that if the taxes  hadnt  been paid, the claim settlement would see Mrs L 
profit from the claim.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Neither party has challenged  my provisional decision to base the claim settlement on the 
valuation provided  by the jeweller who originally sold the ring and then deduct  the excess. 
Ref: DRN06144555But China Taiping has questioned whether  further steps should be taken  to reach  a fair claim 
settlement.
It seems  to consider that because Ive asked  it to pay the full value of the emerald, it is 
entitled to possession of the emerald  in which case it wishes to ensure the emerald  is a 
legal good. Alternatively, it suggests  Mrs L can keep the emerald and £300 be deducted 
from the claim settlement  to reflect the value of the damaged stone.
In its response,  China Taiping hasnt  said why its entitled to possession  of the emerald or to 
deduct the salvage value  from the claim settlement. So Ive checked the policy  document  
and thought about the general  principles of insurance.
China Taiping hasnt explained  whether  it thinks any policy  term(s) give it this right.  Ive 
checked the settling claims part of the contents conditions section of the policy. Various 
limits and deductions are mentioned  but nothing which  is relevant  to this claim. Similarly, 
the general terms and conditions  section  includes duties which Mrs L must carry out and 
China Taipings rights  but none  of it mentions an entitlement to possession  of an item or to 
deduct an amount  for salvage.
I understand that as a general  principle of insurance, if an insurer pays  for a total loss of all, 
or a specific  part, of an item, it may become entitled to ownership of the item or part it has 
paid for. In this case, theres a total loss of the emerald stone, as China Taiping is paying 
cash for its full replacement. A related principle is that for the insurer  to become the owner, it 
must be prepared for the item or part to be abandoned to it by the insured party. In the 
section of the policy setting out China Taipings rights,  it says Mrs L cannot abandon 
property to it.
Taking into account the policy  document and the general principles of insurance,  Im not 
satisfied China Taiping is entitled to possession of the emerald  or to make a deduction  
from the settlement  value  in lieu of possession. So Im not persuaded it would be fair for 
either of these things  to be factored  into the settlement.
China Taiping has raised the case of Geismar  vs Sun Alliance. Ive considered the case  and 
what China  Taiping has said about it.
My understanding is the case concerned a deliberate non-payment of the relevant customs 
duty. And in those  circumstances  the court found it was against  public interest  for an 
insurance claim to succeed. Thats because knowingly avoiding tax on imported goods is a 
criminal offence. China  Taiping hasnt provided  any evidence to suggest Mrs L has 
deliberately avoided paying  the relevant duty. So Im not satisfied the approach  taken by the 
court in the Geismar vs Sun Alliance case is relevant to Mrs Ls claim.
China Taiping has said Mrs L will profit from the claim if the relevant duty hasnt  been  paid. I 
understand the ring, including the emerald stone, was purchased abroad in 2011 and 
brought into the UK soon  afterwards. China Taiping hasnt  provided any evidence  to show  
what customs rules were  in place at the time  or what  duty it thinks Mrs L ought to have 
paid. Nor has it investigated  with Mrs L whether  she paid any duty.  Because of this, Im not 
satisfied China Taiping has shown Mrs L will profit from the claim.
Having considered China Taipings response  to my provisional decision, Im satisfied my 
proposal to settle  the claim by paying  £3,850  is a fair one.
Ref: DRN06144556None of the other parts of the award I proposed in my provisional decision have been 
commented on by either  party. So my view on them remains the same.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  For the reasons above, I require China Taiping Insurance  (UK) Co 
Ltd to:
pay £3,850  to settle the claim for the emerald (which is £4,000 minus the £150 
excess);
pay simple  interest*  at 8% a year, from the date the claim was made until the date 
the claim is settled;
pay £180 for the claw damage;
pay £100 compensation.
*If China Taiping considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs L how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs L a tax deduction certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 January 2021.
James Neville
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0614455