K822xcomplaint
The executor (Mr J) of the late Mrs Js estate complains about the fees Dooneen  Ltd has 
charged for successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claims.
background 
Mrs J had instructed Dooneen  to submit claims to her lenders for mis-sold PPI. Several 
claims were  successful  and Dooneens success fee was paid.  After  Mrs J passed  away, 
Dooneen were  notified of another successful claim.  Mr J, as executor of Mrs Js estate, 
complained. He said, in summary:
 Mrs J didnt authorise the claims:
 the success fee was unfairly high:
 Dooneen liaised with a third party without  proper authority and
 Mr J hadnt been  treated  fairly  during the process.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He explained that there  were  big differences  in 
the signatures on the signed instruction to Dooneen  and other  documents  signed by Mrs J. 
But that there were  a number of successful claims prior to Mrs J passing away and there  
were call notes showing  she authorised the complaint.  He also explained that he felt it was 
likely, as Mrs J had paid the previous  invoices, that she was aware of the fees associated 
with the claims.  Our investigator  asked Dooneen  if it would consider reducing  the latest 
invoice to the statutory fee cap of 20% plus VAT and Dooneen agreed to offer this as a 
resolution. Dooneen also offered Mr J £100  for the issues he experienced during  his 
complaint. Our investigator felt Dooneen  had acted fairly and didnt ask it to offer anything 
more.
Mr J disagreed. He felt the reduced fee should be applied to all successful claims Dooneen 
had made  for Mrs J. So hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I believe the offer 
Dooneen has made is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Authority to submit claims
Ive seen the authority that Mrs J signed  giving Dooneen permission to submit claims on her 
behalf. I agree with Mr J that the signature on this form is different to other signatures from 
Mrs J. I cant be sure who signed  this form, but I do think its likely Mrs J gave authority  for 
Dooneen to submit the claims. I say this because there are multiple  call notes which suggest 
that Mrs J wanted to proceed with claims, as well as a note to say she wished for Dooneen 
to liaise  with a third party on her behalf.
Dooneen also wouldve needed to understand Mrs Js circumstances to be able to submit 
claims on her behalf. So I think its likely  that Mrs J did authorise Dooneen to submit claims 
for her, and gave them the information about  her circumstances to  enable them do to so.
Success fee
Ref: DRN02069322When Mrs J instructed Dooneen, its success fee was 36% of the compensation award. This 
was set out in the terms of the agreement and it was what was used when sending Mrs J the 
invoices for her claims.  It appears these  were reduced following some  discussion with 
Mrs Js representative before she passed  away. But Im satisfied that the success  fee has 
been charged in line with the terms Mrs J accepted.
Mr J has explained he feels the fees should  be reduced to the fee cap which  came  into force 
in July 2018. But Mrs J instructed  Dooneen before this date, and Dooneen is under no 
obligation to reduce its fee to this amount.  I appreciate that Mr J has explained that this fee 
now needs to be taken from the estate,  and he feels that its unfair  to charge more than the 
fee cap  as this had been imposed for a reason. But the fee cap wasnt  retrospective   so 
doesnt apply  to agreements entered into months  before it came into force  which is the 
case here. So I dont  agree  that Dooneen should  be applying a decreased  fee to all of the 
invoices.
Dooneen has offered to reduce the recent invoice to the estate to 20% plus VAT (which is 
the amount of the fee cap).  I think this is reasonable based on the circumstances  so I wont  
be recommending  it does anything further in relation to the fees.
I do note that Mr J doesnt feel the fees reflect the amount  of work done, but this agreement  
was taken out on a no win no fee basis. So any work completed for unsuccessful claims 
would be for free. And any successful  claims would have the fee applied  to them  
regardless of how much work had been  done. This is a risk that both parties agree to when 
entering in this sort of complaint. I do note that without  the work  of Dooneen, Mrs J (and her 
estate) wouldnt have  benefitted  from the compensation awarded. So I do think its 
reasonable for Dooneen to charge a success fee.
Consent to talk to a third party
Mr J has said Dooneen hasnt offered evidence to show Mrs J consented to it liaising with a 
third party on her behalf. But I can see call notes which suggest that she asked  the third 
party to handle the correspondence  for her as she was hard of hearing. I appreciate that 
Mr J, as the executor,  may no longer wish for Dooneen to liaise with this third party,  and he 
can insist on correspondence  about the estate to only go to him. But Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Dooneen  did anything wrong in liaising with this third party  whilst  dealing with 
Mrs Js claims.
Customer service
Mr J has complained about the way Dooneen has treated  him during this complaints 
process. I can see that Dooneen has recognised  that it could have done better and has 
offered him compensation of £100. As complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity,  it isnt 
something that I can consider as part of this complaint. And it is rare for us to consider the 
impact on an executor when looking at complaints.  So I wont comment on whether this offer 
is fair and reasonable, I shall leave it to Mr J to accept if he so wishes.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, the offer Dooneen Ltd has made to the estate of Mrs J is fair 
and reasonable.  It is up to Mr J, as the executor of the estate,  to decide whether to accept  
this.
Ref: DRN02069323Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J, as executor 
of the estate of Mrs J, to accept or reject  my decision before 23 September 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0206932