K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Mr H (father and son) have complained that Aviva  Insurance  Limited unfairly 
cancelled their motor  policy as if it never existed following an accident.
I shall call the father  Mr (F)H and the son Mr (S)H in order to distinguish between  them.
References to Aviva  include its agents.
background
Mr (S)H is a named driver  on his fathers  policy and was added  mid-term from 18 May 2017. 
The policy year ran from 20 March 2017 to 20 March 2018. 
On 17 March 2018, Mr (S)H had an accident  in the snow and hit two other cars. He informed 
Aviva who asked him to send in the relevant documents including the V5 and copy  licences 
for everyone  insured to drive the car. 
In its investigations,  Aviva said it believed Mr (S)H was the main driver of the car and not the 
policyholder, Mr (F)H. So it refused  to deal with the claim and cancelled the policy  as if it 
never existed, keeping the premium that had been paid.
Mr (S)H complained on his own behalf  and that of his father Mr (F)H.  Aviva didnt change its 
mind so he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator thought Aviva  hadnt done  anything  wrong  in cancelling the policy  as if it 
never existed, but she thought it should  have only done that from the date Mr (S)H was 
added to the policy as a named driver.
Neither Mr (S)H nor Aviva agreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint, but for the change of date of the cancellation of the policy,  Ill now explain why.
Our role is to assess  whether or not Aviva  came to a reasonable decision in this case.  That 
means given the evidence  it obtained,  was its decision then reasonable. Were an alternative  
dispute resolution service,  so we are different to the courts and this decision isnt binding  on 
either party unless  Mr (F)H and Mr (S)H accept it.
In Avivas initial investigations needed to ensure  Mr (F)H was the main  driver of his car. This 
is because this policy requires the policyholder to be the main  driver and it asks for this 
confirmation in the application, which Mr (F)H purportedly gave at the time. Its suspicions 
that this might not be the case, was caused by the number of quotes done  at the time of the 
application. Various  addresses were used and the main driver was changed  between  Mr 
(F)H and Mr (S)H and Mr (F)Hs daughter  who was originally the named driver on this policy.  
This is clear evidence that its likely  Mr (F)H wasnt always intended to be main driver of the 
car from the start. 
Ref: DRN07637642So it phoned  Mr (F)H on 19 March 2018. That call recording  is very informative in my view, 
as it was shortly after the accident and at this stage neither Mr (F)H nor Mr (S)H were aware 
Aviva might not cover their claim. Therefore,  Im of the view thats what said here is more 
likely to be the truth. 
Mr (F)H confirmed Mr (S)H used the car for just work, just locally,  and then sometimes  we 
need another driver  to pick up or drop off a family  member. Aviva  then asked Mr (F)H if he 
used the car often? Mr (F)H said No, Ive got my daughters  Weve got two cars in the 
family, were insured on all of them.
Aviva thought this meant that Mr (S)H was indeed the main driver. I dont think  given what 
Mr (F)H said in this call that Avivas conclusions were unreasonable. And I think Avivas 
conclusion that this was deliberate misrepresentation also is not unreasonable.
Mr (S)H understandably was very upset when Aviva  wouldnt  deal with the claim and 
cancelled the insurance as if it never  existed. He protested he wasnt  the main driver and 
didnt use it for work. But later he said he did use it for his second job.
The investigator also talked to Mr (F)H but he said he didnt use his daughters  car whereas  
initially he said he did.
There is a level of inconsistency in these further explanations, which I consider further show  
Avivas initial  conclusions  were not, on the balance of probability,  unreasonable.
Aviva did incorrectly say the policy didnt provide a hire car to Mr (S)H after the accident. But 
given I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to have  cancelled the policy  as if it never  
existed, it actually benefits Mr (S)H that no hire car was provided. As then, he would then 
have to refund the costs of such a hire car to Aviva following its cancellation of the policy.
Aviva cancelled the policy as if it never existed because it believed  Mr (S)H was the main  
driver and not the policyholder Mr (F)H.  But Mr (S)H was not added  to the policy  until 18 May 
2018. So before  this he wasnt  insured to drive this car. 
Aviva has not given us any evidence to show prior to Mr (S)H being added on to the policy, 
that Mr (F)H was not the main driver. Its merely surmised this is the case. I do appreciate 
his daughter was on the policy as a named driver at the start but theres no evidence  to 
show me she was the main driver. Therefore, I agree with the investigator  that the 
cancellation of this policy can only be from the date Mr (S)H was added to the policy.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint  but for the date 
of the cancellation should be changed  to the date Mr (S)H was added  to the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0763764