K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy because  he says National  Westminster Bank Plc havent acted responsibly 
by lending him money and letting him use his bank accounts for gambling. 
background
Mr H has explained he has a gambling  addiction. Hes unhappy Nat West allowed him to use 
his accounts to gamble and loaned him money.  He also said hed not received a response to 
his complaint from Nat West. 
Nat West provided a copy of their final response letter  in which  they said theyd assessed  
the loan applications in line with their lending criteria. They  explained they couldnt stop 
future transactions or take responsibility  for the activity  on the account. They referred  Mr H to 
the life moments section  of their website and offered him a personalised review  of his 
financial circumstances as well as suggesting  other  options which  might help him manage 
the accounts.   
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said that she thought  Nat West had 
taken reasonable  steps to check whether Mr H could afford the loans. She noted that the 
loan applications  stated the purpose  of the two loans were for personal  expenditure and a 
holiday. She also reviewed both of Mr Hs bank accounts. On the first account  she could see 
that the account had been  used for gambling but Mr H had generally  stayed within  his 
agreed overdraft limit. In relation to the second  account she said Mr H had gone into an 
unauthorised overdraft on a few occasions  but hed brought  the account  up to date within a 
relatively short period.  She also couldnt see any evidence Mr H had made Nat West aware 
of his addiction  or that he was experiencing financial difficulties. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree. In summary, he explained  he thought Nat West should have noticed there 
was a problem,  because of arrears and charges. He said hed had over £500 in charges in 
one year and had been late with his loan repayments. And he mentioned  not having 
received the final response letter. 
Our investigator asked  for more information from Nat West who confirmed there had been  
no charges on one of the bank accounts and that the majority of charges on the other 
account were packaged  bank account  fees,  which  had been refunded as a result  of a 
complaint made in 2015. And they said they had already refunded fees when the account 
had gone overdrawn. They said Mr H had told them he wasnt struggling financially. So this 
further information didnt change the investigators  mind about the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr H asked an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H has been through a very difficult time. Hes explained that hes been 
diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and hes been accessing help for his 
gambling addiction,  such as utilising government based gambling blocking schemes. 
Ref: DRN02862102Nat West has a responsibility to carry out proportionate checks when its lending  money  to a 
customer. There are no set checks but they should  be reasonable and proportionate. And, if 
they are aware  a customer  is experiencing financial difficulties,  they ought  to act positively 
and sympathetically. Whilst I have a lot of empathy for Mr Hs position Im not upholding his 
complaint. I say that because: 
In 2016 Mr H took out a loan for £7500.  The repayments were around £195 per 
month. Mr H took out a further loan for £1600 in 2018. The repayments were around 
£54 per month. Bearing in mind the amount of money Nat West were lending  I think  
theyve evidenced  that the checks were proportionate and included information  about 
the account history  and checks with credit reference agencies. The loans werent  
taken out in rapid succession. And I can also see the purpose of the borrowing was 
recorded as personal  expenditure for both loans, and included a holiday.  So taking 
into account the available information I dont think there would have been any 
obvious indicators  the loans were for gambling;  
Mr H did contact Nat West to say hed miss a loan repayment. The contact notes say 
this was due to his boss not being paid and Mr H confirmed  he wasnt  struggling 
financially. Nat West offered to go through an income and expenditure check  but 
Mr H said he didnt want to do this as he didnt have the information to hand.  So Im 
satisfied Nat West did act positively when Mr H missed a payment. And they did 
check to see if he was struggling  financially which is what Id expect them  to do. 
Other contact notes  indicate that on another occasion Mr H missed a payment due to 
confusion about the bank  holiday  and the situation was quickly  rectified within  a 
matter of days. But this wasnt  a regular  pattern on Mr Hs accounts;
I appreciate Mr Hs accounts show evidence of gambling. But thats  a legitimate 
activity and theres no evidence showing he made Nat West aware  of his addiction 
prior to raising this complaint. I dont think its reasonable to say Nat West should 
have done more in relation to the transactions on Mr Hs account, especially when 
they didnt know  he had a gambling addiction;
Mr H says he received a number of charges  on the account. However, he didnt 
receive any charges  on one of his current accounts and whilst he had a few charges 
for being over his agreed limit on the other one they werent  extensive  or frequent. 
He did accrue monthly fees because he had a packaged bank account  which  is 
where customers get certain  benefits in reward for paying a fee  but those were  
standard monthly charges  and didnt relate to specific  activity on the account. And 
Nat West refunded some  of those charges. So I dont think  Nat West acted 
unreasonably in this case;
Nat West has written  to Mr H to explain some of the things he can do to help manage 
his account and the ways  in which they can help.  For example, theyve offered him a 
personalised review  and suggested he changes his account to one which  is fee free. 
So Im satisfied theyve acted positively and sympathetically when they became 
aware of the gambling addiction; 
Im satisfied  Nat West did respond to Mr Hs complaint. They  issued a final response 
letter in October 2018  which was correctly  addressed. So Im satisfied it was sent to 
him in response  to the complaint. 
Ref: DRN02862103my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0286210