K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr W says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 1998 when  he applied for a credit card. Our adjudicator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because:
Mr Ws signed credit card application form shows a tick in a box confirming that he 
wanted the PPI. Ive seen what Mr W has said about this having been  done by someone 
from Lloyds after hed already signed  the form. And I accept that some of the form 
mightve been completed by someone from Lloyds  - especially its common  practice for 
this to happen. But I havent  seen  enough here to be able to safely say this was done  
after Mr W had already signed the form and without his knowledge or consent. 
I say this as other boxes  to request other  products such  as card protection werent  
ticked. And Id have  expected all of the boxes to have been ticked  if Lloyds was looking 
to add insurance without Mr Ws knowledge  or consent. So overall and having carefully 
thought about everything,  I dont  have enough here to say that the policy  was added 
without Mr Ws permission. Instead  I think its more  likely than not Lloyds made it clear 
that Mr W didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he instead chose to take it out.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that it was right for him. Based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example, he 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. I also think that its more likely  than not Mr W had a need for the cover  bearing 
in mind what hes told us about his existing  provisions should ha have had to stop 
working suddenly.   
Im open  to the possibility the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think its more likely than not he chose to take it out - so 
it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have  been  useful for 
him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover in the first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said. But these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN08966602my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
`*
Ref: DRN0896660