K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that a loan from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, was mis-sold to 
her. Shes being helped with her complaint by her daughter-in-law who has a power  of 
attorney to deal with her affairs.
background
Mrs H and her late husband entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Halifax  in March 
2014. The loan was to repay their debts on two credit  cards.  Mrs Hs husband has since 
passed away and Mrs H suffers from health issues. A complaint was made to Halifax  in 
October 2018 that the loan was mis-sold  to Mrs H and her late husband.
Halifax said that it had no evidence that itd been informed, or was aware, that either Mrs H 
or her late husband had any relevant  health  issues when they applied for their loan. And it 
said that they appeared to have  made  a rational and sensible decision to take out the loan 
and it was affordable  for them. But itd referred the management of the loan to its customer  
priority team which had frozen  the interest  payable on the loan. And it paid £96 to Mrs H to 
reimburse her for the £90 cost of a medical  report and £6 of travel costs.  Mrs H wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that: Halifax wasnt aware of Mrs Hs situation  when the loan was made  to her; the loan was 
affordable; the correct  procedure was followed; and Mrs H had benefitted from the loan. And 
he said that Halifax had responded fairly  and reasonably to the complaint.
Mrs Hs daughter-in-law (on her behalf) has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mrs H for the loss of her 
husband and for the health issues from which shes suffering.
Mrs H and her late husband approached  Halifax in March  2014 for a loan to repay  debts on 
two credit cards that theyd taken out in May 2007 and July 2008  and on which they owed 
£6,911.16. They were only making  the minimum monthly repayment of about  £130 to those 
debts. Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show  that Halifax  knew   or ought 
to have known   about any health  issues from which they were  suffering and that would 
have affected  their ability to take out the loan.
The loan was for £7,000  repayable  by 72 monthly payments of £115.31 and the interest  rate 
was 5.9%  APR. So the loan was for less than £90 more than the debts that they were 
consolidating, the monthly  repayment was about  £15 less than the minimum monthly 
repayment that they were making to their credit card debts and the interest  rate of 5.9% was 
likely to be less than they were paying  on those debts.
Halifax says that Mrs H and her late husband were  receiving income averaging  just over 
£1,400 into their account each month  and didnt appear to be making any rent or mortgage 
payments. So they had more than £1,280 for their monthly living costs after making  the loan 
repayment. And it says that they made all of their monthly loan repayments on time for over 
Ref: DRN09592442four and a half years.  And Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  to show  that the 
monthly loan repayment has caused  the account  to become regularly overdrawn or that 
Mrs H is suffering financial difficulties.
When a complaint was made to Halifax that the loan had been mis-sold,  it passed the loan to 
its customer priority  team which  suspended  interest  on the loan and it paid £96 to Mrs H to 
reimburse her for the £90 cost of a medical  report and £6 of travel costs.  And I understand 
that no interest has been applied to the loan since October 2018,  that all of the monthly  
repayments have  been made and that the outstanding balance of the loan is now only £278 
 so the loan will soon be fully repaid.
Im not persuaded that Halifax mis-sold the loan to Mrs H and her late husband or that the 
loan was unaffordable for them at the time that it was made  to them.  Nor am I persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that Halifax  has acted incorrectly.  I consider that it has 
responded to the complaint about  the loan fairly and reasonably  and it has suspended  
interest on the loan since October 2018   when I dont consider  that it was required to do so. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Halifax to refund to Mrs H any of the interest  that shes paid for the loan, to pay her any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0959244