K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Barclays Bank UK PLC was responsible for them falling victim to a 
banking payment scam. They  also believe  Barclays didnt do enough to recover their money  
and that it should reimburse  them for their loss.
background
At around 13:52  on 18 April 2018, Mr and Mrs N authorised an online payment of £1,950  on 
the instruction  of who they believed was someone  from Barclays fraud team.  Other, 
unsuccessful, attempts to transfer  money  were  made both before and after the payment in 
question. Barclays  fraud  team tried to call Mrs N regarding the transactions  but couldnt get 
through. As a result, Barclays suspended Mr and Mrs Ns online banking  services.
Mr and Mrs N contacted  Barclays  at around 14:32 to confirm  theyd been the victim of a 
scam  theyd been tricked into thinking their bank account was no longer secure and that 
they needed to transfer  their money  to another account to keep it safe. 
At around 15:45  Barclays contacted the beneficiary bank to see if any funds could be 
recovered from the scammers account. £118.19 was recovered  and eventually paid to 
Mr and Mrs N in October 2018. The remainder of the funds had been used by the scammer 
and Barclays said it was unable to refund this. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs N complained to us. Our adjudicator thought 
Barclays had done as much as it could to help, so they didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case was passed 
to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And Ive 
taken that into account  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Ref: DRN06147352Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs N when they transferred £1,950 , or whether it should have done  more than 
it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mr and Mrs N lost most  of this money. But, having  looked at the 
circumstances, I do think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the money to leave 
Mr and Mrs Ns account. And I dont think the steps it took to try and recover  funds from the 
beneficiary bank  account  caused  them any financial  loss. So, I dont believe it should 
reimburse Mr and Mrs N for the money  they lost. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs N accept they authorised the transfer themselves. Because of this, Barclays  had 
an obligation  to follow Mr and Mrs Ns instruction. But there are some situations  in which  it 
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  I can see from Barclays records  of Mr and Mrs Ns account 
activity in the six months leading up to the payment  that they didnt normally  transfer funds 
out of their account  online, so the payment type wasnt  usual for them. But I dont  think that 
this on its own is enough to say the payment of £1,950 should have been treated as 
suspicious. It appears there was an attempted payment just before this one that according to 
Barclays was unsuccessful due to it being over the transfer limit of £2,000.  Again,  I dont 
think this would mean the payment of £1,950  should  have  been  picked up for additional 
checks at that stage. 
Ref: DRN06147353Barclays fraud team did try to get in touch with Mr and Mrs N following their failed attempt to 
transfer a further  £3,850 which I think was reasonable given that Mr and Mrs N were 
attempting to make  a number of payments in quick succession. Mr and Mrs N didnt answer 
the phone  and I gather thats because  the scammers warned Mr and Mrs N not to speak to 
anyone about  their account. So, I think it also follows  that even if Barclays  had tried to speak 
to Mr and Mrs N when they made  the successful payment, Ive no reason to believe theyd 
have taken a call then.
Mr and Mrs N query  how the scammers  had access to so much  information about them and 
conclude that Barclays systems must have been breached. Theyve  also referred to a media 
report of a scammer operating in their area that was convicted for cheating Barclays 
customers out of their money.  
Barclays has confirmed Mr and Mrs Ns account  wasnt breached  and Ive not seen anything  
to suggest otherwise. Ultimately, there are a number of ways in which scammers are able to 
obtain the personal information of individuals and it isnt possible to know for certain  exactly 
what happened.
Mr and Mrs N quickly contacted Barclays when  they became aware  that theyd been the 
victims of a scam  within  around 40 minutes of authorising the payment. Barclays  contacted 
the beneficiary bank  just over an hour after that. The beneficiary bank confirmed only 
£118.19 remained in the account. Ive checked the transactions on the beneficiary account,  
and I can see most  of Mr and Mrs Ns funds were removed around the same time that they 
telephoned Barclays to warn them of the scam.  So, I dont think  Barclays  could reasonably  
have recovered  Mr and Mrs Ns funds.     
That said,  and following our involvement,  Barclays has acknowledged that it delayed passing 
on the recovered funds to Mr and Mrs N for around  five months.  For that, its now apologised 
and offered to pay them  compensation of £100, which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances. Barclays should  arrange to pay Mr and Mrs N the £100 compensation 
directly. 
This experience has clearly been very upsetting for Mr and Mrs N. And Im aware  the award 
offered is scant  consolation considering everything  theyve lost. But, in the circumstances, I 
cant fairly say that Barclays  caused  them to lose their money. And I dont think theyve lost 
out financially  because  of how Barclays dealt with things after being  notified of the scam.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0614735