K820x#14complaint
Ms M and Mr J complain about a letter Lloyds Bank  Plc sent to an incorrect  address when 
they took out a personal loan. 
background
In May 2018, Ms M and Mr J took out a personal loan with Lloyds. Following this, Lloyds 
sent out a letter thanking  them for taking out the loan and offering a welcome gift.
Unfortunately, the letter  was sent to Ms Ms ex-husbands address in error.  As a result, Ms 
Ms ex-husband became aware that she and Mr J had taken out a loan. Ms M and Mr J say 
that her ex-husband then shared this information  with Ms Ms son and they believe he 
wouldve also shared  this information  with his new partner. Ms M and Mr J say this was 
embarrassing and humiliating.
Lloyds accepted an error had been  made in the address that was used to send the letter and 
welcome gift to Ms Ms ex-husbands address. They say this happened  because there was 
another correspondence address on the system  held for Ms M which  was used by mistake.  
They apologised and offered £150  compensation in for this error. Lloyds then increased the 
compensation to £175. Ms M and Mr J didnt accept this as they felt that Lloyds should clear  
the outstanding loan amount instead. Lloyds say the incorrect  address has been removed 
from Ms Ms file.
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. He explained that the content of the letter didnt  
disclose specific details  about the loan and he felt the compensation of £175 was fair and 
reasonable. Ms M and Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider their 
complaint. They say that its unacceptable Ms Ms ex-husband  and son to have been  made  
aware of their loan,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms M and Mr J remain very unhappy  about what  has happened and I 
understand that they feel strongly  about this. Ive read everything  Ms M and Mr J have told 
us about why they didnt  want Ms Ms ex-husband to know about the loan and Ive thought  
about the effect its had on Ms M and Mr J.
Its important  to explain that this services  role isnt to decide if a business  has breached data 
protection laws.  This is for the Information  Commissioners Office to decide.  But, where a 
business has acknowledged they sent a letter to the wrong address, I can consider what 
impact this had on a consumer. And, whether the business should pay compensation for the 
trouble and upset  their actions have caused as a result. 
Lloyds accept that the letter and welcome  gift were  sent to the incorrect  address  in error and 
as Lloyds have  explained how this mistake  happened,  I wont go into any more detail about 
what led to the mistake. Whats left for me to decide  is whether the compensation offered by 
Lloyds is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN07944512Ive looked at the letter in question and I can see that it was addressed to Ms M - I dont think 
Lloyds could have  foreseen that her ex-husband would open it. But the fact remains that it 
was sent to an incorrect address.
Having looked  at the content of the letter, it says We want  to say thank  you for taking out a 
personal loan with us, so heres a treat from us to you, the letter  then goes on to explain the 
gift options as part of the welcome.  I can understand why Ms M and Mr J are frustrated and 
upset as the letter confirms a loan has been taken out. However,  no further details  were  
disclosed such as the loan amount, term of the loan or the monthly  repayments  - only limited 
information was shared  in the letter. 
Ms M and Mr J ask for the loan balance  to be written off due to this error. But Ms M and Mr J 
dont dispute they took out the loan and theyve had the benefit  of these funds, so I dont 
think it would  be fair for me to tell Lloyds to write off the outstanding balance on the loan.
Whilst I acknowledge there was some impact  on Ms M and Mr J, I think  the offer of £175  is 
fair in the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons Ive explained above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that Lloyds  Bank  plc have made  a fair offer of 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0794451