K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that a default marker should  have  been put on her credit file when she was
issued with a default notice in 2008.  She says this means the default  wouldnt now show  on
her file as more than six years have passed since it should have  been  added.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 20 November 2018-  a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Lowell Financial Ltd didnt want to provide any further information for me to consider and 
said it accepted  the provisional decision.  But Mrs H hasnt responded and therefore  hasnt  
provided anything  further for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint against  Lowell Financial Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06632562copy of provisional decision
complaint 
Mrs H complains that a default marker should have been put on her credit file when she was issued  
with a default notice in 2008. She says this means the default wouldnt  now show on her file as more  
than six years have passed since it should have been added.
background
Mrs H had a credit card which went into arrears in 2008.  The credit card provider  issued her with a 
default notice but eventually worked with Mrs H to accept a debt repayment plan. So it didnt put a 
default marker on her credit file.
In April 2016  Lowell Financial Limited (Lowell) wrote to Mrs H informing her that it had purchased her 
debt from the original credit card provider and would  be managing the account moving forwards. It 
said that it required  the debt management company  to continue to make payments directly to Lowells  
until the debt was repaid.
In April 2018  Mrs H wrote  to Lowell about her outstanding debt.  She said shed now become aware 
that this debt would remain on her credit  file for six years following the date she settles it. She said 
that the original  credit  card provider should have added a default  on her file back  in 2008.  And, had it 
done so, all records  of this debt wouldve  been deleted from her credit file in 2014.
Lowell didnt uphold the complaint. It said the debt had been  sold to them  on a non-default basis and 
that was how it had continued to report it to the credit reference  agencies. Lowell said it would  only 
look to put a default marker  on Mrs Hs credit file if her relationship with it had broken  down, which it 
hadnt.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt  be upheld. She said that 
Mrs Hs credit file was currently a true reflection of her relationship with lenders and as her 
relationship with the original  credit card provider  hadnt broken down  she began  a debt 
management plan with its agreement - it was right not to apply a default marker.
The investigator went  on to explain that even if a default marker had been applied to Mrs Hs credit 
file then the debt would have  still been outstanding after six years and further demands for payment 
could have been made.
Mrs H provided evidence to show that, in her opinion, the relationship with the credit card provider 
had broken down in 2008 because it had issued her with four separate  default notices.  She believed 
this should have  led to it adding a default marker to her credit file at the time.  And if it had, that record 
would no longer  appear on her credit file. No resolution could be found so the complaints  been 
passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has complained about  the original credit card providers actions in not applying  a default  
marker to her credit file in 2008 when  she said their relationship had broken down. And Ive seen 
evidence from Mrs H to show why she believed  that to be the case. But this complaint is about 
Lowells actions, and how its dealt with Mrs Hs account and its only managed her debt since  2016. 
So Im not going to look at what should or should not have happened from 2008 to 2016.
Ref: DRN06632563The information commissioners office (ICO)  has issued principles  for the reporting of arrears, 
arrangements and defaults  at credit reference agencies which gives lenders guidance  on what to do 
in such  situations. The first principle is that data reported on a credit file must  be fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date, and further that should your account be sold or referred  to 
another lending organisation or a debt collection  agency, the records provided .must  still be 
accurate and up to date. I think that when  Lowell wrote to Mrs H in 2016 and explained that it 
required the debt management agency to continue making payments to it, this reflected an accurate 
and up to date summary of Mrs Hs credit  status.
As far as Lowell was concerned  the debt was sold to it on a non-default basis.  I dont think there was 
a requirement for it to confirm whether  any defaults should  have been recorded  in
2008 just that the repayment  arrangement was being maintained and was up to date. The evidence 
that Ive seen shows that the arrangement was up to date. Ive already  stated that I wont be looking 
at the events  of 2008 as Lowell wouldnt  have been involved  in that decision. So, Ive gone on to 
consider what  Lowells responsibility was and how I think it should have acted.
The ICO guidance also stated If you are subject to a debt management programme managed  by a 
third party (such as StepChange) this will be shown on your credit file so that lenders know you are 
subject to this type of arrangement  and also If an arrangement is agreed, a default  would  not 
normally be registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken..A default  should  not be 
filed: if jointly  with the lender  an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you keep to the terms 
of that agreement.
So I think its clear that Lowells had a duty to record up to date and accurate credit information, and in 
Mrs Hs case  that was to record  that payments were made according to the arrangement with the debt 
management company unless that arrangement  was stopped and Mrs Hs relationship with Lowell 
broke down.
The evidence  Ive seen  showed that only one payment was missed  after Lowell took over the debt. 
But I dont think that was sufficient to bring  about  a default notice.  Indeed Ive seen that the month 
after that missed payment  Mrs H asked Lowell if she could make personal  payments on top of the 
ones the debt management company was making for her.
So, I cant say that Lowell has done  anything  wrong here as its followed the ICO guidance about  debt 
and from what I can see it has only ever recorded accurate information about Mrs Hs account on her 
credit file. I dont think Lowell  had any reason to add a default  onto her account and I dont think 
Lowell can be held responsible for what should have happened eight years before it took over the 
management of Mrs Hs account. I know Mrs H will be disappointed with this provisional decision  
because shes concerned  that a record of the arrangement will remain on her file for many years until 
after shes been able to pay off the debt. But Lowell  has a duty to record the credit information  
accurately to reflect Mrs Hs true circumstances. And based on what Ive seen I think it has accurately 
represented her situation  in line with whats happened since 2016.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint against Lowell Financial  Ltd.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0663256