K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V have  complained that Fisher Investments Europe Limited 
(Fisher Investments)  delayed  selling  their investment portfolio, which  caused them to lose 
out financially. 
background
In 2016 Mr and Mrs V signed up to Fisher Investments discretionary investment 
management service  for their investment portfolio.  This meant the Investment Manager  had 
the discretion  to make all investment  decisions, including whether  to buy, sell or hold assets. 
On 24 May 2018 Mr V emailed Fisher Investments to say he wished to sell his whole 
investment portfolio. In a phone  call later that day Fisher Investments explained 
Mr and Mrs V would need to complete and sign a form as part of the sales  process. The 
form had to be created  so Fisher Investments wasnt able to provide it that day.  
Mr V chased  Fisher Investments for the form the following day, and it was later emailed  to 
him. The form included  a value for Mr Vs investment  portfolio.  Mr and Mrs V signed and 
returned the form on Saturday 26 May 2018.  
Fisher Investments received the form on 29 May 2018, which  was the first working day 
following a UK bank holiday. It completed the sale of Mr and Mrs Vs portfolio on 
30 May 2018, and paid them the proceeds  (less  fees and charges). 
Mr and Mrs V complained that the value of their investment portfolio had dropped in the time 
it had taken Fisher  Investments  to sell the shares. They said this caused them  to lose out on 
approximately eight  thousand euros.  Mr and Mrs V think Fisher Investments should honour  
the value that was stated on the form theyd  signed. 
Fisher Investments acknowledged that it had made some mistakes  in processing the sale of 
Mr and Mrs Vs portfolio. It said it shouldnt have  included  a quoted value for the portfolio  on 
the form it asked them  to sign, as the eventual value couldnt  be known at the time the form 
was created. It explained the value would only be determined at the point the portfolio was 
sold and the relevant fees and charges were deducted. It referred to clause 3(b) within the 
Confidential Client Agreement signed by Mr and Mrs V:
Client Instructions. The Investment Manager  will work with the Client(s)  in an effort to 
accommodate special  requests as to specific Account transactions All such  Account 
instructions must  be in writing in a form acceptable to the Investment Manager  with a 
valid signature(s) (oral or email instructions are not acceptable).  However  the 
Investment Manager is not a custodian or broker and cannot  provide assurances as to the 
timing or price  terms of special requests for the purchase or sale of particular securities. Any 
instruction (including  buy, sell and liquidation instructions) may not be initiated  and 
completed until one or more business  days after receipt.
It also referred to clause 4(a) which says:
The Investment Manager cannot guarantee the future performance  of the Account(s)  or any 
specific level of performance.  
Ref: DRN09488242Fisher Investments accepted it couldve sold the portfolio  sooner  than it did. It said the sale 
could have been completed  on 29 May 2018,  instead of 30 May 2018. So it offered to pay 
Mr and Mrs V the difference in the value theyd have received had the sale been completed 
the day before (€235.94). 
Mr and Mrs V rejected Fisher Investments offer and referred their complaint to our service. 
They said Fisher Investments hadnt clearly  explained the process  involved in selling their 
portfolio. They explained  theyd given  their instructions to sell the shares on 24 May 2018 
and Fisher Investments  was responsible  for the delay in actually selling them. In particular 
they pointed to the fact that Fisher  Investments  had been unable to provide them  with the 
necessary form when first requested. They said it shouldve paid them  the portfolio value 
that was quoted on the form.  They were also unhappy Fisher  Investments had deducted 
fees from the sales proceeds. Mr V said hed spent so much time resolving the issue he felt 
his personal costs matched the fees charged  by Fisher Investments.  He asked that 
Fisher Investments improve its selling procedures in the future. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that 
Fisher Investments had processed Mr and Mrs Vs instructions within  a reasonable period of 
time. Under  the terms of the agreement Mr and Mrs V had signed,  he also felt 
Fisher Investments was entitled to charge a fee for its services. 
Mr and Mrs V didnt  agree and asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman. They 
maintained that Fisher  Investments should honour  the portfolio value that was stated on the 
form they signed. They also disputed that the clauses Fisher Investments had relied on 
applied in their circumstances. They noted the clause referred to special  requests, whereas 
their request  was a straightforward request to sell the whole portfolio. 
As theres  been  no agreement, the case has been  passed to me to reach a final decision. 
In light of Mr Vs comments, I asked  Fisher Investment to comment on the relevance of the 
clauses it was relying on from the Client  Agreement.  I also asked it if it could  provide  a 
recording of the call where Mr V had instructed  Fisher Investments to sell the portfolio.  
Fisher Investment explained it had no recording of the call where Mr V had asked to sell his 
portfolio. In terms of the clauses it has relied  on, it explained that Mr and Mrs V had 
authorised its Investment  Manager to act as discretionary investment adviser. This meant 
the Investment  Manager would make all decisions regarding the investment account  
including decisions to buy, hold and sell securities. It explained that any transaction  that is 
not directed by the sole discretion of the Investment Manager is a special request  this 
included Mr and Mrs Vs instruction to sell the investment portfolio. 
In view of Fisher Investments comments, I contacted Mr and Mrs V to explain that I was 
minded to accept  that clause 3(b) from the client agreement applied to their instruction to sell 
their portfolio. 
Mr V responded, raising a number of points. He said Fisher Investments:
was a hard selling company and had never explained how Mr and Mrs V could sell 
their portfolio;
had delayed the sale as it had been unable to provide the necessary form when he 
first asked  to sell his portfolio on 24 May 2018;
Ref: DRN09488243sent a form confirming the amount  Mr and Mrs V would receive for selling their 
portfolio, but didnt  explain the amount was subject to returning the form the same 
day;
didnt do its utmost to complete the sale of Mr and Mrs Vs portfolio as requested, 
as it said it would  within  its client agreement; and
didnt follow their procedures and made  mistakes which resulted in Mr and Mrs V 
losing out. 
Mr V also noted that Fisher Investments has now changed its selling  procedures.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied that 
Fisher Investments offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So 
I wont be asking it to do anything more. I know this is going  to come as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs V, so Id like to explain my reasons for reaching this conclusion.  
I should explain at the outset that Im only considering Fisher Investments advice and 
actions after it received Mr Vs request to sell the portfolio on 24 May 2018. In his most 
recent response to me, Mr V seems  to raise concerns  with how the discretionary investment 
management service  was initially explained to him. Hes said he was never told how he 
could sell his portfolio. This falls outside  the scope of this complaint, so I wont be 
commenting on this. If Mr V has ongoing concerns  he may be able to raise this as a new 
complaint with Fisher  Investments. 
delays
Having carefully considered the Client Agreement, along with Fisher Investments 
explanation detailed above, Im satisfied clause 3(b) applies in this case.  
By signing the client agreement, Mr and Mrs V authorised Fisher Investments to make all 
decisions regarding their investment account. This is explained within Clause 2 of the 
agreement which says:
the Investment  Manager  agrees to act as a discretionary  investment  adviser  by making  all 
investment decisions  regarding the assets in the Account(s). Such investment decisions will 
include decisions to buy, hold and sell securities. All authority given to the Investment 
Manager under this Agreement will remain in effect  with respect to each Account until 
changed or terminated by the applicable  Client(s)  with respect  to such Account in writing 
with a valid signature.
The composition, construction and asset allocation of the Account(s) are entirely within the 
discretion of the Investment   Manager,  except as otherwise instructed by the applicable 
Client(s) in a written  and signed  request to the Investment Manager in accordance with 
Clause 3(b) below.
So I accept  Fisher Investments explanation that any instruction that wasnt at the discretion 
of the Investment Manager is a special  request and so Clause 3 (b) applies. I also note the 
clause specifically refers  to buy, sell and liquidation instructions, which  further supports that 
this clause applies to the type of instruction Mr V gave to Fisher Investments. 
Ref: DRN09488244As detailed  above,  clause  3(b) specifically states that instructions  must be received in 
writing, in a form acceptable to the Investment Manager, and with a valid signature. As such, 
I cant say Fisher Investment acted  unreasonably  by requiring Mr and Mrs V to sign and 
return a form before  it would act on Mr Vs verbal instruction. 
I understand Mr V believes there was an unreasonable delay in Fisher  Investment providing 
him with a copy of the form he needed to complete.  But this form wasnt generic. It had to be 
created specifically for Mr and Mrs V. In the circumstances I dont consider sending  the form 
the following  day (25 May 2018) was an unreasonable  delay. 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs V returned the form on a weekend immediately before a 
public holiday (28 May 2018), which undoubtedly  led to a short  delay before the form could 
be processed. But I cant hold Fisher Investment responsible for this. Given the nature of the 
public holiday,  I wouldnt expect any investment services to be operating  over the weekend 
or during a public holiday. So the transaction wouldnt  have  been  completed until 
29 May 2018 at the earliest. 
Although clause 3 (b) states that instructions to sell may not be initiated and completed  until 
one or more business days after receipt, Fisher  Investments accepts it could  have 
processed the sale a day earlier than it did. Its offered  Mr and Mrs V compensation which  
equates to the difference in the portfolio value between 29 and 30 May 2018. I consider this 
a fair offer and I wouldnt expect Fisher Investment to offer anything  more.  
value of the portfolio
I understand Mr and Mrs V are primarily concerned that they didnt receive  as much for the 
sale of their investment  portfolio as theyd been quoted on the form they signed  to initiate the 
sale.
Fisher Investments has acknowledged,  and I agree, it shouldnt  have quoted a price  on the 
form it sent to Mr and Mrs V, as the actual price  couldnt be determined  on that date. But as 
the investigator said, I wouldnt expect the business  to honour the mistake. Instead  Id 
expect Fisher Investments to return Mr and Mrs V to the position they wouldve been in had 
the mistake not happened.  In this case that would  mean Fisher Investments would have sent 
a form without an indicative price.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr and Mrs Vs decision  to sell their investment  portfolio was 
dependant on its specific value at the time of the sale.  I say this because Mr and Mrs V have 
explained that the reason  for liquidating the account  was to enable them to purchase  and 
renovate a property. Its also significant  that Mr V had already asked Fisher Investments to 
sell the portfolio before hed been given a specific value for it. 
So while I can see it could potentially have been  misleading to receive paperwork that 
suggested Mr and Mrs V would receive  a set price for their portfolio, Im not persuaded that 
this induced them to do anything they wouldnt have otherwise  done.  
I may have  considered  awarding a small  sum of compensation for the trouble caused to 
Mr and Mrs V for receiving potentially misleading paperwork. But considering  the case  as a 
whole, I think Fisher  Investments has already made a fair offer of compensation in respect of 
all of its mistakes  
Ref: DRN09488245Ive taken into consideration the compensation Fisher Investments has already offered  in 
respect of the minor delay  in completing  the sale. I didnt  consider there  was an 
unreasonable delay in selling the portfolio. And as the client agreement set out that 
Fisher Investments may take a day or more to process any request to sell, I didnt think  it 
needed to make up the difference in value between 29 and 30 May 2019. Had Fisher 
Investments not already offered any compensation, its likely  Id have awarded a similar sum 
as compensation  for the misleading paperwork. But I dont think Fisher Investments error 
were sufficiently serious, or caused  sufficient trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs V, to justify  a 
further sum of compensation.  So Im not asking  it to do anything  more to put things right.
fees
I understand Mr and Mrs V are also unhappy that Fisher Investments has deducted  a 
number of fees and charges from the final settlement value they received from the sale of 
their investment. 
As Fisher Investments were offering professional investment services to Mr and Mrs V, 
I cant say it was unreasonable  for them to charge for their services.  Its also set out within 
the client agreement  (clause 7 (d)) that the client will be responsible  for any expenses  
properly incurred under  the agreement,  including  all fees and expenses  incurred when 
selling an investment. I havent  seen any evidence to suggest the fees Fisher Investments 
charged were unreasonable. 
I dont agree that Fisher Investments fees should be offset  against  Mr and Mrs Vs expenses 
in bringing this complaint. It is to be expected that it will take some time to bring  a complaint, 
but I wouldnt usually  expect a business to reimburse a consumer for this time. 
sales procedure
I know Mr and Mrs V would like us to advise Fisher Investments to improve their sales  
procedures going  forward. But its not within the remit  of this service  to ask a business to 
change its internal processes or procedures.  This is a matter for the financial regulator. I can 
only consider if a business has applied  its processes  and procedures  fairly and reasonably  in 
the circumstances. In this case, Im satisfied Fisher  Investments has generally treated 
Mr and Mrs V fairly, so I wont  be asking it to do anything else. 
I understand from Mr V that Fisher Investments has now changed its processes when selling 
portfolios, which  its entitled to do. The fact that it has now changed  its processes doesnt  
change my view on how it processed  Mr and Mrs Vs request to sell their portfolio in 
May 2018. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Fisher Investments should  now arrange  to pay Mr and Mrs V the compensation it previously 
offered, unless it has already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Ref: DRN09488246Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0948824