K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection policy (PPI).
It was sold alongside  a loan in 1996  and was a regular premium policy. It is unclear if it was 
a single or a joint policy.
Mr and Mrs F say Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs F say the policy was sold during a meeting. Nationwide is unable  to tell us how 
the policy was sold. I havent seen anything  which makes  me think it wasnt  sold during a 
meeting. So Im satisfied  to say it was. 
When selling  the policy to Mr and Mrs F, Nationwide shouldve  made them  aware they had a 
choice about buying the policy.  Mr and Mrs F say they werent  made aware the PPI had 
been added  to their loan.  
I dont know what was said about the PPI in any discussions Mr and Mrs F had with 
Nationwide. And Nationwide hasnt been  able to provide any paperwork from the sale  
which isnt unusual given  how long ago this all happened.  So Ive thought about Mr and    
Mrs Fs comments,  alongside sample  copies of the loan agreement,  which Nationwide  has 
provided. Ive also thought about what we know about how Nationwide sold this type of PPI 
to decide what  is more likely to have happened. 
From what  we know, Nationwide  normally made  it clear to its customers they had a choice 
about buying PPI and got their agreement  to it. Looking at the sample documents, this 
includes a sample  loan agreement and it has information about PPI such as the cost  listed  
separately to the loan itself. It also describes the cover as optional. I think this wouldve 
made applicants  aware they had a choice  in taking out the policy. 
So I think its more likely  Nationwide wouldve made  Mr and Mrs F aware  they had a choice 
about buying the PPI and  at the time - they chose to take it. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. So it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to give them enough clear  information so that they could 
decide whether  or not to take it. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Nationwide gave Mr and 
Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI 
- so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
Although its not clear  if the policy was in joint names or not, based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look they were affected by any of the exclusions to or 
Ref: DRN08903142limits on the PPI cover.  Mr and Mrs F say Mrs F had sick pay and redundancy benefits from 
her employer. But the PPI wouldve covered their loan repayments for a period of time if she 
lost her job or was too unwell to work. This would have paid out on top of any employee 
benefits she was entitled to. 
Mr and Mrs F says the policy wasnt any use to them because Mr F was self-employed,  but 
having carefully reviewed  the policy terms, I dont think  being  self-employed  would have 
made it any more difficult for him to claim. 
From what  Mr and Mrs F have told me, it doesnt look like they had any other means  of 
meeting their loan repayments  such as savings,  so I think  it would  have been  useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put off Mr and Mrs F taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs F have lost out from anything Nationwide mightve done 
wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0890314