K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2002 Mr H took out PPI at the same time as applying for a new mortgage during a branch 
meeting.
The policy provided  protection for Mr Hs mortgage payments in the event he couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out for up to 24 
months per claim and it cost around  £38 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr H was employed and he said he was entitled to 16 weeks sick 
pay. He said he had several thousand  pounds in savings and some shares he couldve used 
to make his repayments,  and he was in good  health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr H chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him. 
Because Mr H disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr H was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr H have a choice about PPI?  
Mr H says his understanding was that PPI came  with and formed part of the mortgage 
application  he had no choice. He says that, had he been given a choice he wouldve opted 
out. 
BoS hasnt got all of the paperwork from the time of the sale  and this isnt surprising given 
things happened  around 17 years ago. But it has provided a declaration  Mr H signed  a 
separate document from the mortgage application   in relation  to the PPI.
Im mindful too that, based on what we know of how sales of this nature were  conducted  by 
BoS around this time, it wouldve been clear  that PPI was a separate and optional  product 
and that it did not form part of the mortgage application itself.
Ref: DRN08729182So, in light of the limited evidence about  an event which  happened  many years ago, and in 
the absence of persuasive  evidence that something very different happened  from our 
understanding of things  in Mr Hs case  I note Mr H has said it is impossible to remember  
the sales conversation  from 17 years  ago  I think more likely than not BoS made it clear 
that Mr H didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this.
the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr H. This means BoS had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr H  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he was eligible for the cover; he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual  
employment circumstances; and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Mr H says he was in a secure  job and so he didnt need PPI. Hes also said he was in a 
position to secure  his payments through  his existing means. 
But I still think Mr H wouldve  benefitted  from the policy had the insured risks become a 
reality for him. The policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Hs sick pay and for longer if 
necessary  up to 24 months per claim. So, if Mr H found himself  unable to work for an 
extended period,  I think it couldve  helped him out at what would likely be a difficult  and 
perhaps uncertain time. After 16 weeks Mr Hs sick pay wouldve stopped, so his savings  
wouldve quickly been used up meeting  his overall  household expenditure  I think  he 
mightve come under  some financial pressure.
Mr H says his job was secure. But in my view, this can only be said with real confidence in 
hindsight. Insurance  is taken out to provide protection  in the event of the unexpected  
happening  not in anticipation of it happening. Mr H was taking on a not insignificant 
amount of debt secured against  his home. And in these circumstances I dont  think it was 
wrong for BoS to have recommended  PPI to Mr H.
the information   
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr H 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But as I found above, I think he likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  And as I also said above  it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr H off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about his previous 
mortgage PPI policy  being upheld and that mis-selling was rife at the time he took out this 
particular policy. But these points  dont change my decision.
I cant comment on why BoS chose to uphold Mr Hs earlier  PPI policy   this decision is only 
about the policy Mr H took out in 2002.  
It is well documented that PPI was widely mis-sold.  But not all PPI was mis-sold.  And for the 
reasons Ive set out in detail above, I dont think this particular PPI policy Mr H took out in 
connection with his mortgage was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN08729183This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr H paid for it. But BoS has already 
offered to give Mr H back some of the cost of the PPI  and I understand BoS has already 
paid this to Mr H. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0872918