K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W has complained about a series of home-collected credit  loans provided to her by 
Provident Personal Credit Limited  (Provident). She says she doesnt think that Provident 
treated her fairly as it continued  giving her loan after loan even though she was struggling 
financially. She also says that she was even offered loans when she was in arrears  and she 
wasnt told that paying off one loan with another meant she was paying double the interest.
Background
The Statement of Account  provided  shows that Mrs Ws first loan was taken in August 2009  
and the last one, which  was repaid in March 2019, was provided in October 2015. Provident 
gave Mrs W 12 loans over this period  and on some occasions Mrs W had more  than one 
outstanding loan. Mrs Ws loan history with Provident is:
Loan Provided Amount Interest APR Payment* Term* RepaidLoans outstanding**
1 17/08/2009 £300.00 £225.00 254.50% £10.50 50 10/08/2010  
2 27/11/2009 £300.00 £225.00 254.50% £10.50 50 23/11/2010 1
3 08/10/2010 £600.00 £672.00 133.60% £12.00 106 01/05/2012 2
4 27/05/2011 £500.00 £560.00 160.90% £10.00 106 20/11/2012 3
5 26/08/2011 £300.00 £225.00 254.50% £10.50 50 01/05/2012 3 and 4
6 30/04/2012 £800.00 £896.00 133.60% £16.00 106 04/07/2013 4
7 16/11/2012 £700.00 £840.00 137.80% £14.00 110 19/08/2014 6
8 01/07/2013 £1,100.00 £1,320.00 137.80% £22.00 110 10/02/2015 7
9 18/08/2014 £1,500.00 £1,800.00 137.80% £30.00 110 12/10/2015 8
10 06/02/2015 £1,500.00 £1,800.00 137.80% £30.00 110 26/08/2017 9
11 11/05/2015 £500.00 £600.00 137.80% £10.00 110 28/06/2017 9 and 10
12 12/10/2015 £2,000.00 £2,400.00 137.80% £40.00 110 06/03/2019 10 and 11
*weeks 
**identifies by its number  each loan that hadnt  been  fully repaid at the time this loan taken 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mrs Ws complaint and concluded that Provident  hadnt 
done anything  wrong in relation to loans 1 to 3. But he also thought  that Provident shouldnt  
have provided  Mrs W with loans 4  12 as it ought  to have seen that these loans were 
unsustainable for her. Provident  disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
On 23 October 2019, I issued a provisional  decision setting out my initial  findings  on Mrs Ws 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
Firstly, I summarised  the regulatory  framework,  relevant law and what  I considered to be 
relevant publications at the time (this is copied  in full in the appendix to this decision and I 
ask Provident  and Mrs W to read this again  in order to give proper context to this final 
decision).
Ref: DRN03623152In light of the relevant rules, law and publications, I explained that there  were  three  
overarching questions I needed to consider in order to decide  what was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  These were:
1.Did Provident, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  
itself that Mrs W would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mrs W wouldve been able to do so?
2.Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Provident ought reasonably  to have realised it was increasing  Mrs Ws 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further loans?
3.Did Provident act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other  way?
 
In considering the first overarching question  whether Provident completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs W would  be able to repay her loans in a 
sustainable way  I explained  that the rules  and regulations throughout the time Provident  
lent to Mrs W required  it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate  assessment of whether 
she could afford to repay any loan. 
I explained that the OFTs  Irresponsible Lending Guidance (March  2010) said that checks 
had to be both borrower-focused and proportionate. So Provident  had to think  more  
widely than simply whether it would get its money back  from   Mrs W. What Provident 
needed to do was think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties 
or adverse consequences for Mrs W. 
In practice this meant that Provident had to find out enough about  Mrs W such that it could 
reasonably conclude that making the payments  to these  loans  wouldnt cause Mrs W undue 
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  
I also explained that what constitutes a proportionate affordability  check was dependent 
upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular  circumstances of the 
borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Even for the same customer,  a proportionate check could  look different for different loan 
applications.
In light of this, I provisionally found that a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
Ref: DRN03623153the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I explained that there may also be other factors which could influence  how detailed a 
proportionate check should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and, any foreseeable changes  in future circumstances.  
I then proceeded  to look at the checks that Provident carried out at the time of the loans and 
considered whether they were proportionate. Provident said that similar checks  were carried 
out for loans  1 to 3; loans  4 to 11 and loan 12. So I looked at the checks  carried out for the 
loans in these  groupings.   
loans 1 to 3
I started  by explaining  that it was unclear what checks, if any, Provident carried out before it 
provided loans  1 to 3. Provident hadnt told me that it did complete any particular affordability 
checks for these loans. Instead  Providents final response said that the agreements detailed  
the full costings of the loans, including the interest, weekly  repayment  rate and term of loan. 
It also says that the agreements included a section which said: 
I have thought  about my finances  and I can afford to repay the loan at the weekly  payments 
level (i.e. rate) set out in this agreement. I confirm that I am not in receipt of, nor seeking,  nor
thinking about seeking advice or assistance regarding  debt restructuring  from anybody,  
business or agency in the provision of debt management advice.  
I also pointed out that Providents  final response  to Mrs Ws complaint stated:
At the point of issue, this was an adequate  approach  to assessing affordability.  The fact you 
repaid each of your three  loans  in full and on time would  suggest  this guideline was 
followed.
Having considered this, I thought that Provident  appeared  to have taken no information at all 
regarding Mrs Ws income or expenditure before providing these loans to her. Indeed  it was 
my view that Provident appeared to be suggesting  that the onus was entirely on Mrs W to 
assess whether loans 1 to 3 were affordable for her because it asked her to confirm that this 
was the case  and she proceeded with the applications. 
I didnt see how Provident could reasonably have concluded that loans 1 to 3 were 
affordable for Mrs W when it appears to have sought  no information at all about her income  
and expenditure.  Equally I didnt see how what Provident did could reasonably be seen as 
constituting any sort of assessment of Mrs Ws ability to repay these loans. 
Having taken all of that into account, I strongly  disagreed with Providents  assertion that 
what it did before providing  these  loans to Mrs W was consistent with an adequate 
approach to assessing affordability as such a conclusion would have ignored Providents 
obligations to assess whether Mrs W could afford the loans. As I pointed  out, assessing  
affordability requires  an assessment  of whether the borrowing is sustainable without the 
borrower incurring  new financial difficulties or experiencing  other adverse consequences. So 
Ref: DRN03623154I also didnt think that Mrs W having repaid these loans was in itself indicative of them  having 
been affordable  for her in the first place.
Bearing in mind all of this, I was satisfied that Providents checks  before providing loans 1 to 
3 werent borrower-focussed or adequate. And as this was the case,  I intended to conclude 
that Provident didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before providing loans 1 
to 3 to Mrs W. 
loans 4 to 11
Provident said that it carried out a full affordability  assessment before providing loans 4 to 
11. It said that a Customer Details Form  (CDF)  was completed before each application. It 
said that these  forms contained details of Mrs Ws personal circumstances and information  
about Mrs Ws income and expenditure. Provident  also said that Mrs W signed  to confirm the 
information obtained was accurate and that she declared an adequate  level of disposable 
income to cover the proposed  repayments on each occasion.
Having thought about what  Provident  said and considered the copies of the CDFs provided, I 
had a number  of observations.
The main  information  Provident relied on was contained in Sections E, F and G of each 
CDF.  I started by looking  at the CDF completed before loan 4 was provided and said that I 
had significant  concerns  about the rigour  applied  to the responses  provided to the questions 
asked. Section E asked Mrs W for a number  of personal details such  as her marital  status,  
her employment status and how long shed been employed for. Mrs W confirmed that she 
was married, had two dependents, was a self-employed mobile  hairdresser and shed been 
in this role for 14 years.
Section F confirmed information about  the loan itself. The purpose of the loan was recorded  
as family, that the amount of the loan was £500  and the weekly payment would increase 
from £12 to £22. Finally, section G went on to ask Mrs W some  questions about her 
expenditure. She was asked about the type of credit she already had and confirmed she 
already had home credit, at least one personal loan, a mortgage  and a mail order account.  
Section G then recorded a weekly income of £450.  But the sections to indicate whether this 
was her sole income or her income together with her husbands werent filled in. So I was 
unclear on what Provident  took into account when establishing Mrs W had a weekly  income  
of £450, or what this was made  up of.
A mortgage payment of £200 a week, together with a weekly  loan payment of £12 
(presumably for loan 3) and other regular weekly expenditure of £60 was also recorded.  I 
thought that, at first glance, this weekly payment towards loans already in existence 
appeared to be inaccurate given it looked like this only took into account Mrs Ws existing 
Provident loan.  This was despite her having  ticked the boxes to confirm she had, at least  
one, other  personal  loan and a mail order account.  
Even then I also thought  that it was unclear whether this was Mrs Ws weekly expenditure or 
that of her and her husband. By introducing the possibility of Mrs Ws husbands income 
being included,  I would  have expected the expenditure section to have stated whether his 
expenditure was included  and if it wasnt I would have expected an explanation on why this 
wasnt necessary. It was my view that the CDF possibly including  Mrs Ws husband 
introduced unnecessary confusion when he clearly wasnt a party to this agreement.  
Ref: DRN03623155I was also concerned that Providents agent  appeared  to have simply accepted that Mrs W 
had non-credit  related  regular outgoings of only £60 a week   especially in light of that fact 
that the CDF also recorded that Mrs W had two dependants. I couldnt see how Providents 
agent could reasonably have believed that Mrs W could have had regular non-credit 
outgoings of just £60 per week   covering food, energy, travel,  clothing, insurance,  council 
tax etc.  bearing  in mind she had two dependants. 
I thought that if Providents agent had received  a plausible  explanation in this regard,  I would 
have expected this to have been  recorded  on the CDF itself. It was my view,  that the 
information on the CDF  which  suggested Mrs W had a weekly  disposable income of £178 
(or over £700 per month)  posed more questions than it answered. 
I also thought  that the number of inconsistencies  and unanswered questions increased as 
and when further CDFs were completed for Mrs Ws later loans. The CDF completed for loan 
5  which was provided only three months after loan 4  had no record of the personal loan 
and mail order account that had been  declared on the CDF for loan 4. This was despite the 
assessment for loan 4 having made no provision for these debts. Mrs Ws regular outgoings 
were also recorded  as having doubled  from £60 to £130 a week  and the purpose of this loan 
was also recorded  as family.
For loan 6, which was provided only 11 months after loan 4, once again Mrs W was recorded 
as having no other  credit  commitments  other than her mortgage and existing home credit 
loans. But her regular  non-credit related outgoings had reduced to £80 a week   even 
though she still needed to borrow a further £800 for family related expenditure.
Loan 7 was taken out seven months after loan 6. The mail order  account made a re-
appearance in the declared credit commitments. And this time it did appear as though  the 
assessment budgeted for payments of £44 a week going towards other  credit  
commitments. However, Mrs Ws income was recorded as having increased  to £500 and 
her disposable  income  was also recorded as having  increased to £170  a week  the highest 
it had been since  loan 4. Yet she still needed to take a fourth loan in succession to cover 
family expenditure. 
By loan 8, in July 2013, Mrs Ws income  was recorded as having  once again dropped  to 
£450 a week.  The mail order account  once again  wasnt recorded as an existing credit  
commitment. This time the purpose of the loan was recorded  as a holiday.  And Mrs W was 
recorded as having a lower weekly disposable income of £130 a week  because  her non-
credit related  outgoings had increased  to £100 a week.
Loan 9 was taken in August 2014.  Mrs W was recorded as having an increased weekly  
income of £500.  And the mail order  account  reappeared as a declared  credit commitment.  
Although once again there didnt appear  to be any provision for this in Mrs Ws declared 
expenditure  only the payments to Mrs Ws existing  Provident loan were  included. And the 
loan purpose was once again  recorded as holiday.
I thought that the information  recorded  on the CDF for loan 10 was even more extraordinary. 
I noted that the format of this form was slightly different to the ones used for loans 4 to 9  
nonetheless the questions  and sections were similar.  On the form for loan 10 Mrs Ws 
income was now recorded  as £160  a week  a reduction of almost £300 from the previous 
lowest declared weekly income of £450  a week. And a reduction of £340 a week from what 
was declared for loan 9 only six months  earlier. 
Ref: DRN03623156Mrs W was once again recorded as having  a mail order account. But again  no payment 
towards this was accounted for her expenditure. And despite  being still recorded as having 
two dependents, Mrs Ws other non-credit related outgoings were only recorded as being  
£40 a week. The purpose of this loan was recorded as household goods.   And  as far as I 
could see Providents  agent didnt take any additional care when completing this assessment 
despite the substantially lower income  figure recorded. 
Finally I set out that the CDF for loan 11 contained similar information to that recorded  for 
loan 10. The only difference was that the CDF for loan 11 recorded  Mrs W having £10 less in 
disposable income to account for the higher payment going to Mrs Ws existing Provident 
commitments.       
In considering this information, I thought that it was important to start by explaining that 
Provident already  had an established lending history with Mrs W by the time it provided loan 
4. And, in these circumstances, I thought  that Providents checks for loan 4 (as well as the 
subsequent ones) ought to have built upon what it already knew  about  Miss W from her 
earlier borrowing. 
In my view, this meant  that, to remain proportionate,  Providents  affordability checks needed 
to evolve and take into account  what it was learning as a result of earlier loans. But it 
seemed to me that Provident appears to have viewed each application in isolation and 
proceeded even  when  its agent was provided  with information that was wholly inconsistent 
with what theyd been told previously and with Mrs Ws pattern of credit  use. 
Provident placed great weight on the fact that its loans were  only provided after a face-to-
face assessment  of income and expenditure,  rather  than through information having been 
gathered in a quick online  process   such as the process carried  out by payday lenders. So, 
in these circumstances, especially  where Provident itself is suggesting  that its face-to-face 
process enables  some  extra safeguards or additional degree of rigour,  I didnt consider it 
unreasonable to have  expected Providents  agent to have taken steps to have clarified these 
discrepancies. 
Furthermore, leaving aside my significant  concerns  about the lack of curiosity applied to 
information recorded on the CDFs,  I also thought that Mrs Ws borrowing history itself 
suggested there was a reasonable prospect  the information provided  on the CDF was 
inaccurate. And, in these circumstances, I thought that Provident ought to have taken steps 
to verify the accuracy of the information  on the CDFs. 
I set out that Provident ought  to have been aware  that while Mrs W did sign the declarations,  
it shouldnt have proceeded  with loan applications  where it ought reasonably to have 
suspected that the information  provided  was inaccurate. And, in this case, I thought  that 
Provident also ought to have questioned just why it was Mrs W wanted or needed fourth, 
fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh loans  at very high interest rates  - if 
she genuinely had the levels of disposable  income  disclosed  on the CDFs.  
I accepted that it was possible for a borrower to have the levels of disposable income  
suggested and yet choose  to borrow in this way and at these  rates  perhaps  because of the 
convenience of having payments collected at their home. But given Providents obligations, I 
considered it fair, reasonable and proportionate for it to have taken further steps to have 
ascertained that this genuinely was the case,  by the time of loan 4 and for the subsequent 
ones.  
Ref: DRN03623157In these circumstances, I thought that it would have been  reasonable and proportionate  for 
Provident to have taken steps to verify the income and expenditure information provided  
especially in light of what, bearing  in mind the circumstances,  appears to have been the, at 
first glance,  low and  fluctuating amounts  disclosed for Mrs Ws non-credit  related regular 
expenditure. Provident could have done  this in a number of ways, for example by asking for 
evidence such as bank  statements, utility statements or copies of other bills. 
I thought that, in any event, whatever Provident  did it needed to get to the crux of why      
Mrs Ws developing borrowing history was at odds  with the income and expenditure 
information that was being  provided. And it shouldnt have simply relied on what, at face 
value, appears to have  been obviously over-optimistic declarations of Mrs Ws disposable  
income. 
I said this while also mindful  of the fact that the various rules  and regulations in place 
throughout the time Provident lent to Mrs W made it clear that where income  and 
expenditure was used  in an affordability  assessment,  it may not be proportionate to rely 
solely on a statement of these matters made  by the borrower.       
I was also concerned that this wasnt done  even though the purpose of a number  of these 
loans was stated  to be family. I was unclear  what exactly  this purpose was. But I thought  
that this might have  implied regular day-to-day family expenditure rather  than spreading  the 
cost of a one-off expense.  And I stated that it was my view that borrowing to make ends 
meet  especially where such expensive credit was concerned - was in itself an indication  
that a borrower  was developing or indeed  may already have developed an unsustainable 
dependence on credit. This was also more  of a concern where a borrower only appeared to 
be paying off earlier loans by taking further  ones out.
For all of the above reasons, having carefully  considered what  Provident told me about the 
checks it performed before providing Mrs W with loans 4 to 11, I reached the conclusion that 
Provident failed  to conduct reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
providing Mrs W with loans  4 to 11.
loan 12
Provident said that it used a system known as Lending App in order  to complete the 
affordability assessment  for loan 12. It says that similar details to those collected for loans  4 
to 11, were recorded.  But instead of this being  done on a paper-based application form this 
was inputted into an electronic device, which automatically declined an application where  a 
loan was deemed unaffordable. It also said that to protect against any understating of 
expenditure Lending App makes use of modelled outgoings based on data obtained from 
the Office of National Statistics when assessing affordability.
I then thought about what Provident said and the data it provided. 
I started  by saying that Provident provided a number of different spreadsheets and it wasnt 
exactly clear to me what they purported to demonstrate. I thought this was the case  as 
Provident appears to have provided the output of credit checks it carried out on Mrs W. I was 
concerned because some of these appeared to be for loans taken prior to loan 12. But 
Providents explanation (about the checks  it carried out at the time of the various 
applications) didnt say anything about  credit checks having  been carried  out, or anything  
about what this coded information  meant.   
Ref: DRN03623158I pointed out that considering that this was information that Provident itself had collected  and 
which it appears to have used to inform its lending decisions, it was disappointing that 
Provident was unable to tell me what the data revealed about  Mrs Ws circumstances when 
she applied  for her loans.  I made it clear that this service couldnt be expected  to comb 
through coded information looking for evidence to support Providents defence of Mrs Ws 
complaint. If Provident couldnt describe what the data it provided showed about  Mrs W, then 
I couldnt place  any weight on it.
I also thought  that Provident appeared to be relying  heavily  on the decision reached by its 
Lending App. For the avoidance of doubt,  I wanted to be clear in saying that Provident was 
responsible for any lending approved  by its own system. Given  that Provident insisted that 
loan 12 was responsibly lent, it ought to have known   and have explained  not only what 
information its Lending App obtained,  but also how it used and interpreted this information to 
make a fair, reasonable  and responsible  lending decision. Without this explanation from 
Provident, I couldnt and wouldnt take it as read that this automated decision was fair. 
Indeed I had significant concerns even about what some of the clearer  information  indicated. 
I thought this because the information  provided  about the loan created in October 2015 (I 
referred to it in this way because the application number didnt match  the agreement  number 
for loan 12) appeared to indicate that Mrs Ws monthly outgoings  were  almost £200 more  
than her monthly income.  And even  then it seems to have been decided that no further  
evidence was required to verify that the loan was affordable.
By this stage Id already explained  why I thought that Providents  failure  to obtain information 
from Mrs W to support  and verify the income and expenditure declarations meant  that the 
checks carried out for loans 4 to 11 werent reasonable and proportionate. So it followed that 
similar failings  in the checks  before providing  loan 12 even further on in Providents lending 
relationship with Mrs W also meant the checks it carried out before providing this loan 
werent fair, reasonable and proportionate either.      
As I didnt  think that the checks Provident had carried out before providing any of Mrs Ws 
loans were sound, proper or proportionate,  I then went on to consider whether she lost out 
as a result  of Providents shortcomings  in other  words, I considered  whether reasonable 
and proportionate checks would more likely than not have indicated to Provident  that Mrs W 
wouldnt have been able to repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
Id already explained that I thought a proportionate check  for loans 1 to 3 wouldve involved 
finding out  for example   about  Mrs Ws normal monthly outgoings and regular financial 
commitments. And to help me understand for myself what Provident would more likely than 
not have discovered  if it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks before  
providing these  loans, Mrs W was asked to provide us with a number of bank statements. 
But Mrs W was unable to provide these.
As Provident hadnt carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 3 and I didnt have  
enough information from Mrs W either, I couldnt say what proportionate checks  would more 
likely than not have  shown. 
So while I had concerns about  the increasing  proportion of Mrs Ws income that was going 
towards repaying these  loans (loan  2 looked to have been  provided when loan 1 was 
outstanding and loan 3 while loan 2 was outstanding), I didnt have enough to make  the 
finding that proportionate checks  would more likely than not have shown Provident that 
Ref: DRN03623159these payments for these loans were  unaffordable either individually or cumulatively. As this 
was the case,  I didnt  find that Provident unfairly and unreasonably provided loans 1 to 3 to 
Mrs W.
I didnt recreate individual, proportionate  affordability  checks  for loans 4 to 12 because  
I didnt consider it necessary to do so. I considered this to be the case  because  in addition  to 
assessing the circumstances behind each  individual loan provided to Mrs W, Provident  
ought to have regard to the overall pattern  of lending and what  unfolded during the course of 
its lending history with Mrs W. 
I was mindful here that the relevant  rules  and guidance made it clear that a lender  shouldnt 
continue lending where the loans  were unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and/or it was 
apparent that the customer may be experiencing financial  difficulties. And it seemed to me 
that there  may come  a point at which a responsible lender ought fairly  and reasonably to 
question whether continuing  to offer further lending to a customer  who appeared to be 
persistently and repeatedly reliant  upon  them was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.  As a 
result, I considered  whether  that point had been reached in this case.
I then thought about the first few loans provided to Mrs W to try to identify whether and when 
there were indications that the lending had become  (or was becoming unsustainable).
I thought that it would be useful to start by setting out some examples  of the kind of 
indicators that were  particularly important when deciding this matter. Some  examples of the 
kind of indicators included:
the number  of times that Provident had lent to Mrs W in total
the number  of loans outstanding (as well as the total amount Mrs W owed  
Provident) at a particular  time 
the time period over which Mrs W had been  in debt to Provident (particularly in 
light of the high-interest rate applying to these loans) 
the amounts  that Provident was lending to Mrs W, including any general trends
the time between Mrs W repaying one loan and Provident providing the next,  if 
any
Having considered everything, I thought that there were some  early warning signs that loans 
2 and 3 might have  been starting to become unsustainable  for Mrs W. I said this because 
Mrs W approached  Provident for loan 2 before loan 1 was repaid. And she then applied for 
loan 3 before loan 2 was repaid. Loan  3 was also for substantially more  than the first two 
provided.  
But even though I thought  that there were some clear warning signs  that Provident ought  to 
have been alert to, I didnt  think that Provident ought  to have concluded that the pattern of 
lending had, in itself, become demonstrably unsustainable or harmful   such  that I could 
reasonably say that the facts spoke  for themselves  before loan 4. So I didnt find that 
Provident ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that it was increasing  Mrs Ws in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful when it provided  loans 1  3.
Looking beyond loan 3, though, I thought  that Provident ought  fairly and reasonably  to have 
realised that these loans had become demonstrably unsustainable. From this perspective,  
having considered everything, I thought the point at which  this borrowing became 
unsustainable and harmful  is from loan 4. 
Ref: DRN036231510I explained that I thought  that there was an emerging  pattern,  between loans 1 to 3, of       
Mrs W taking  out new loans before repaying  previous ones. And I thought that, by loan 4 
Provident ought to have  regarded that pattern as established. When Mrs W applied for loan 
4 her total indebtedness  (when loan 3 was taken into account)  was for substantially  more 
than before - Mrs W was borrowing a further  £500 only 7 months  after shed borrowed £600. 
In my view, the pattern  that had been established by loan four is borne out by Mrs Ws 
ongoing borrowing. This showed  that she was never able to recover and get herself on an 
even financial keel from this point  onwards.  I said this for a number of reasons.  
Firstly, Mrs Ws loan history showed  that only one (loan 5) was for less than the amount of 
loan 4  and even then when Mrs W was provided with loan 5 she still had outstanding 
balances on loans 3 and 4. So the total amount she owed at this stage was substantially 
more. Six of the eight loans Mrs W was provided  with after loan 4 were  for significantly more 
than the £500 advanced for this loan. And four of the six loans were  for more than double  
this amount.
I was also particularly concerned by the fact that loans 3 and 5 were settled the day after 
loan 6 was provided.  In these circumstances, I thought it was likely that Mrs W only repaid 
loans 3 and 5 by taking  a further loan from Provident (loan 6). The rules  and regulations  in 
place throughout  the period I was looking at all made it clear  that a borrower  should  be able 
to repay  a loan without  needing to borrow further.  So to start with Mrs Ws repayment  history 
in itself was arguably  an indication  that the borrowing was unsustainable  and harmful.
In any event, what I was most  concerned about  was the effect  that Mrs W borrowing  to 
repay, in this way, had on her overall  indebtedness. At the time of settlement, Mrs W had 
£314 remaining  to repay on loan 3 and £168  to repay on loan 5 of the total amounts payable 
on these loans had they run to term. By repaying early she avoided interest of £48.32 on 
loan 3 and £21.34 on loan 5, meaning that she made net payments  of £265.68 and £146.66  
towards those loans respectively from the proceeds  of loan 6. And so together,  these loans  
made up £412.34 of the £800  lent for loan 6. The total interest  payable  on loan 6 was £896. 
So, allocating this interest charge on a pro-rata  basis to the earlier loans, the interest liability  
that Mrs W assumed on the portion borrowed to repay  loan 3 was £297.56 and the interest  
on the portion  borrowed  for loan 5 was £164.24. 
Mrs W taking  loan 6 to repay loan 3 in this way meant that she had to pay £563.24   some 
£250 more than the £314 that had been  outstanding at the date of settlement. And taking 
loan 6 to repay loan 5 meant  that Mrs W had to pay £310.90  some £140  more than the 
£168 outstanding at settlement. This was made even worse by the fact that loan 6 didnt run 
to term either. Mrs W repaid loan 6 by taking loan 8 so this process repeated  itself again. 
Mrs W owed £739 on loan 6 at the time of settlement. The proportion  of loan 6 that had been 
made up by the settlement amounts for loans 3 and 5 was 51.5%. So £380.58 of the £739 
outstanding on loan 6 when it was settled could be attributed to the unpaid part of the 
settlement for loans  3 and 5. Mrs W received a settlement rebate of £198.80 when she 
settled loan 6 early. 
This meant that £278.20  of the £1,100.00 advanced  for loan 8 consisted of the settlement for 
sums originally advanced under loans 3 and 5. This was around 25.3% of the amount 
advanced by loan 8 and this proportion of the total interest due was £278.301. All of this 
1 The figure quoted in my provisional decision should have read £333.96, which is 25.3% of the total 
Ref: DRN036231511meant that instead  of paying  the £380.58 that she would have paid in respect of outstanding 
liabilities originating  from loans 3 and 5, as she would  have  needed to do without taking   
loan 8, Mrs W was now due to repay  £556.50.      
As far as I could see, most of Mrs Ws loans were repaid  in this way. Loan 4 was repaid by 
taking loan 7, loan 7 itself was repaid when loan 9 was provided and loan 8 (which  Id 
already explained, in some detail, had rolled-over  amounts from loans 3, 5 and 6) was repaid 
by loan 10. And finally loan 9, which itself included settlement amounts for loans 4 and 7, 
was settled by loan 12. Provident allowing (and in Mrs Ws words even encouraging) Mrs W 
to take out these loans in this way meant  that interest was being  capitalised  into later loans. 
This made the total cost of these loans much  more expensive and, in my view, made them 
unsustainable.   
In its submissions, in advance of my provisional  decision, Provident had referred to the 
FCAs High-cost Credit Review  update (HCR update)  which was published in January 
2018. I pointed  out in my provisional decision that Provident quoted  selected  extracts from 
this document  (which  I put in bold font):
at paragraph 3.13 Repeat  borrowing and multiple borrowing is clearly  a prevalent 
feature of home- collected credit use. We do not consider that this in itself is harmful.  
Providing creditworthiness assessments are carried out effectively,  weekly 
repayments should be affordable and sustainable. Repeat  borrowing can be a useful 
means of managing  cyclical income shortfalls.
Paragraph 3.21 states that it recognise[s] that there is value for consumers in having 
continuing access to home collected  credit  and maintain additional weekly 
repayments on separate loans may not be affordable. The FCA therefore recognise that 
repeat borrowing may serve a useful purpose depending on the customers  individual  
circumstances and that they are only looking at if repeating borrowing could work better 
for consumers .  
That paper also states at paragraph 3.7 that in their view provision  of credit can 
nevertheless have a socially valuable function.  Consumers can benefit from using 
high-cost credit where repayments  are sustainable and appropriate forbearance  is 
shown if they have temporary repayment problems .
I thought about  what  Provident  said and the content of FCA publications it referred to. 
I started  by saying that I thought Provident  had referred to sections from more  than one FCA 
publication. The paragraph 3.13 it referred  to was from Consultation  Paper 18/12 High-cost 
Credit Review:  Consultation on rent-to-own, home-collected credit, catalogue  credit  and 
store cards, and alternatives to high-cost credit Discussion on rent-to-own pricing 
(CP18/12). Not the HCR update. CP18/12 was published in May 2018.
I also thought  that Provident was overlooking the fact that paragraph 3.13 of CP 18/12 says 
that repeat borrowing  can be a useful means of managing cyclical income shortfalls  where 
creditworthiness assessments are carried out effectively.  And Ive already explained, in 
some detail why I thought  that Providents creditworthiness  assessments werent  fair, 
reasonable and proportionate and therefore, in my view, werent  effective. 
interest of £1,320.00  for loan 8. I instead quoted a figure (£278) which was 25.3% of the £1,100.00 
advanced for loan eight.  
Ref: DRN036231512Moreover, paragraph 3.14 of CP18/12 also states:  
we are concerned  that there is a small core of customers who are using home- collected  
credit over an extended period and that some customers are being unduly influenced by 
firms representatives to keep borrowing.
Mrs W owed Provident for a period approaching ten years.  And so I thought that Mrs W may 
well have fallen into this category. I invited Providents thoughts on this matter. 
I also thought  about paragraphs 3.7 and 3.21 of the HCR update,  which I thought made  clear  
the FCAs view that high cost credit  users had low credit scores and may have needed credit 
to make ends meet.  And, in my view, this meant  that there was a need to ensure that 
payments were affordable and sustainable  in line with the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice. I also didnt agree with Providents  suggestion  that the FCAs publications 
state that repeat lending (where home-collected  credit was concerned) would always be fair 
reasonable and proportionate in all circumstances. 
Indeed I thought that Provident appeared to have either overlooked or ignored paragraph 
3.20 of the HCR update  which stated:
We are focusing our evidence gathering  on repeat borrowing  and refinancing, including  
where consumers take out additional borrowing with the outstanding amount from the 
previous loan incorporated into the new loan. We are concerned  that when consumers 
refinance their loans in this way, it may result in them paying significantly more  interest  on 
the amounts originally  borrowed  than they would had they maintained  separate  loans.
In any event, while I didnt  consider  that my findings were inconsistent  with the content of the 
FCAs publications, I was required to decide what I thought was fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances  of Mrs Ws case.  
I thought that in this particular case,  Mrs W was in debt to Provident for an unbroken period 
of approaching ten years. This lack of any break  in Mrs Ws indebtedness led me to think  
that it ought to have  been apparent to Provident  that Mrs W was unlikely to have been using 
these loans as a useful means of managing cyclical income shortfalls  especially as the 
loan amounts increased substantially and were in large part used to discharge the debts 
arising as a result of earlier  Provident loans. 
These loans were very expensive - all of them had an APR of in excess  of 100% and some 
of them  an APR of in excess of 200%. And where the loans were refinancing  outstanding  
debts to Provident, this led to interest  being  paid on interest and so the APRs (which  related 
to the principal of each  loan in isolation) high as they were  didnt capture the compounding  
effect that such refinancing had on the interest  paid by Mrs W.
Indeed the Handycash  Product Explanation leaflet Provident says it provided with Mrs Ws 
agreements said: 
Borrowing small sums  over short terms is more expensive than larger  sums over a longer 
term. Handycash loans  are intended  to meet short-term, immediate needs. These are not 
suitable if you are looking  for a long term, high value loan.
Ref: DRN036231513So it seemed to me that Provident itself recognised the harm of borrowers  taking such  loans 
and paying these interest rates over the longer term. In these circumstances, I couldnt see 
how it was fair and reasonable for Provident  to have given Mrs W all of these loans in the 
way that it did. It was my view that the effect of Provident allowing Mrs W to enter into 
sequential loan agreements, which it itself said were for short-term  use, some  of which were 
concurrent, over this extended  period  had the effect of unfairly  prolonging and increasing her 
indebtedness. 
On almost every occasion Mrs W agreed to pay far more interest than the amount  she 
borrowed, and because of her refinancing early  loans, she then ended  up paying  interest  (at 
similar very high rates)  upon the unpaid interest,  resulting  in what  I considered to be truly 
enormous costs  over a long-term period. I thought that Provident  could and should have 
identified, from the way   Mrs W sought to use its loans, that her debts were problematic and 
taken steps other than continuing to provide more and more expensive loans.
Instead, I thought  its actions meant  that Mrs W was paying Provident high amounts of 
interest for the privilege of it allowing her to delay dealing with her unsustainable debt. I 
didnt think that offering  further expensive loans to repay previous ones was exercising 
forbearance. It wasnt in dispute that Provident wouldnt have provided a single loan, 
encompassing the entire period of borrowing, with a similar APR to even the lowest one    
Mrs W was charged. This is because it was and still is widely  recognised that such  interest 
rates are unsuitable  for longer term borrowing because the required repayments would be 
unsustainable (I mentioned that Providents  own product literature appears to accept this). 
So I didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Provident to provide Mrs W with a series  of 
these loans over a six-year period when the effect was the same  (or worse, given the 
compounding effect  of the multiple  refinances) and in circumstances where Provident ought 
to have seen that Mrs W was already struggling financially. 
I also considered what  Provident had said about  our adjudicator  referring to loans  outside  
our jurisdiction to inform his decision on the ones within our jurisdiction. But I didnt think that  
Mrs W was provided  with any loans that we couldnt consider a complaint  about. All of             
Mrs Ws loans  were provided  after 6 April 2007 and so after our Consumer Credit jurisdiction 
started. And Provident accepted that Mrs W complained in time.  So I couldnt see how our 
adjudicator did comment on loans that were  outside  of the jurisdiction of this Service and 
Providents arguments on this point didnt  persuade  me that it was fair and reasonable for it 
to have provided loans 4 to 12 to Mrs W.     
 
Providents obligations together with what I thought was fair and reasonable taking into 
account the circumstances and everything I covered led me to find that Provident  ought fairly 
and reasonably to have  realised it was increasing Mrs Ws indebtedness  in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided loans 4 to 12.
Finally I considered the third of the overarching questions that I thought  were  relevant to my 
determination of Mrs Ws complaint. And having  done so, I hadnt seen anything  that led me 
to conclude Provident acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mrs W in some  other  way.
All of this led me to find that:
Provident didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs W to satisfy  
itself that she was able to repay  any of her loans; 
Ref: DRN036231514there wasnt enough  to conclude  reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have  individually  shown Mrs W was unable to sustainably  make the 
repayments for loans  1 to 3;
Provident ought to have realised that the loans from loans 4 onwards were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mrs W and were unfairly  and excessively 
increasing her overall indebtedness;  
So overall my provisional decision  found  that Provident had not acted fairly and reasonably 
to Mrs W when providing her with the loans from loan four onwards. 
I then found that Mrs W lost out as a result of having unfairly and unreasonably  been 
provided with loans 4 to 12 in two key ways.  
Firstly, these loans  had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness  to 
Provident by allowing  her to take very expensive  credit over an unbroken  and 
extended period of time. And I thought that the financial loss arising  (by way of 
interest and charges  on loans she shouldnt have been given) unfairly exacerbated 
what was already an adverse and precarious financial position for Mrs W.
Secondly, the sheer number of loans is likely to have had implications for Mrs Ws 
ability to access  mainstream  credit. The greater the presence of these loans on     
Mrs Ws credit file the less likely Mrs W was able to rehabilitate her finances and 
regain access to mainstream credit. 
In my view, Provident giving Mrs W this many  loans over such  an extended period of 
time, unfairly  placed her in a position  where she was trapped  into taking very 
expensive high-cost loans over an extended period as no-one  else (other than similar  
providers) would lend to her. In these  circumstances, I thought  that Mrs W had little 
choice other  than to keep  turning to Provident  for further loans, because  it, as well 
other similar providers, was the only one prepared to lend to her bearing  in mind 
everything that had gone on previously.
I finally set out a method of putting  things right for Mrs W, which I found addressed 
Providents failings  and Mrs Ws resulting loss.
 
Providents response to my provisional decision
Provident responded to my provisional  decision. Its response was split into two sections. 
Section 1 intended to provide more clarity about  Provident as a business.  And section 2 
addressed my provisional findings regarding Mrs W herself. 
In summary,  section 1 of the response:
covered Providents background  as a company; 
provided a summary of home  credit  as a product; 
detailed  Providents approach to assessing  affordability and how it has evolved  over 
time; 
Ref: DRN036231515referred to the role of Providents agents,  their responsibilities, method of 
remuneration and training; 
explained  how forbearance and arrears  was and is approached in home credit  and 
the training provided to agents in respect  of this.
And, in summary,  section  2 of the response:
confirmed that as all of Mrs Ws loans  were provided before July 2017, they were 
issued by self-employed agents;
apologised for the format that the Credit Bureau  data had been provided  in and gave 
some context  and clarity regarding this information.  Provident  said that there were a 
few positive indicators  in the information,  such as:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
othere being a long period of time since Mrs Ws last recorded default  (ranging 
from 23 months to 58 months at the point of application);
oMrs W not having taken on any other  credit  commitments  in the three  months 
prior to any of her Provident loans being taken;
oMrs Ws worst recorded  status  on her other commitments was 3 missed 
payments but this didnt happen until after her final Provident loan was 
provided.
addressed some  of the specific points raised in my provisional  decision by saying:
oMrs Ws income only fluctuated once between loans 4 to 9 when an amount 
of £50 more was recorded for loan 7. As Mrs W was a self-employed  mobile 
hairdresser this fluctuation doesnt seem excessive;
owhile the concerns  I raised about  the amount recorded for Mrs Ws non-
financial regular outgoings  not being plausible for a family  of four are 
acknowledged, the minimum  monthly  disposable income recorded (of 
between £284  and £675)  were  sufficient to cover any unforeseen costs      
Mrs W may have  had;
oduring the period that loans 4 to 9 were provided the agent could accept 
applications supported by partner  or spousal income where their knowledge 
of the customer satisfied them that these  funds would be available  to support 
the loan repayments. But where this income was included the partner or 
spousal expenditure also needed  to be included in the affordability 
assessment;
othe assessment  process was changed  in September 2014  and affordability 
assessments had to be based solely on the applicants income and 
expenditure. This is evidenced by the fact that application for loan 10 
(completed after September  2014) didnt  have an amount  for rent/mortgage 
as Mrs Ws partner paid for this and it also saw a significant reduction  in 
income as Mrs Ws husbands wages were stripped out;
Ref: DRN036231516oProvident considers  that family  is a broad category relating to non-essential 
spending such as birthdays, Christmas  and leisure  etc. So family  related 
expenditure is not a need but more of a luxury item a customer  may wish to 
purchase. The loan purpose recorded  for loans 8 and 9 was holiday  and 
given the amounts  of the loans  and the fact that they were taken out in the 
summer, this isnt unreasonable;
oMrs W repaid  the capital and interest  on all loans and the credit bureau data 
suggests that she wasnt borrowing from other  lenders to do so. So Mrs W 
used the product as intended for loans 4-9;
oAccording to credit bureau data at the time of loans  9,10,  11 and 12, a 
balance for a running account credit agreement  ran at an average  
outstanding value of £4,233, carrying an associated  weekly repayment of 
£52.91, and this appears to have been  left off the CDFs for those loans. 
When the cost of repaying this facility is added to Mrs Ws other commitments 
she still had enough left over to be able to make the repayments for loan 9. 
However, she wouldnt have had enough left over to repay loans  10, 11 and 
12;
obearing in mind all of the above,  it disagreed with my provisional conclusions  
on loans 4 to 9. But it accepted that it shouldnt have provided loans 10 to 12 
to Mrs W and agreed to pay compensation for these loans in the way set out 
in my provisional decision.
Mrs Ws response to my provisional decision   
Mrs W responded confirming that she accepted that my provisional decision and that she 
had no further  points to make.
My findings
I thank the parties  for their further  comments and I also want to say that I was pleased to see 
that Provident paid compensation for loans 10 to 12 as soon as it provided its response to 
my provisional decision. As Provident has accepted my provisional findings that loans 10 to 
12 should not have been lent to Mrs W, the findings I set out below relate  to loans 4 to 9 as 
they are the only ones  that remain in dispute.    
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  in order to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account  the relevant law and regulations;  relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; and relevant  codes of practice.  Ive set out all of 
this in the appendix to this decision.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  law and publications, I remain of the view that the 
three overarching  questions that I set out in my provisional decision are what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. These 
are:
Ref: DRN0362315171.Did Provident, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  
itself that Mrs W would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mrs W wouldve been able to do so?
2.Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Provident ought reasonably  to have realised it was increasing  Mrs Ws 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further loans?
3.Did Provident act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other  way?
Provident hasnt  challenged my conclusion that these overarching questions  are relevant to 
me deciding  this complaint. Indeed, Providents response to my provisional  decision appears 
to accept that these  are the relevant questions. The content of Providents response 
suggests it is my findings on these  matters that it disagrees with.
As I set out on page 14 of this decision,  Providents response was split into two sections. I 
thank Provident  for the clarity  it has provided about its business.  And I have kept this in mind 
whilst reviewing all of the points that it has made in relation to Mrs Ws loans. For ease of 
reference, Ill address  Providents points thematically.
The disposable income recorded
Provident has made a number  of arguments  regarding the disposable  income recorded on 
the CDFs for loans  4 to 9. Provident has argued  that the fluctuation recorded in Mrs Ws 
declared income for loans 4 to 9 wasnt excessive. 
I want to start by saying  that it wasnt solely the fluctuation  in Mrs Ws recorded income that I 
was concerned about. My main concern in relation to the income recorded for Mrs W was 
that it wasnt clear from the CDF whether the income recorded was Mrs Ws alone or that of 
Mrs W and her husband. 
Provident has stated  that Mrs Ws weekly income fell from an average of £479  during loans 
4 to 9 to £169 during  loans 10 to 12 and has explained that this reflects  a change  in its 
processes that occurred  when spousal income  stopped being taken into account. 
I welcome the clarity that Provident has provided  in relation to this and do accept that the 
information recorded on the CDF for loan 10 does appear to support that the affordability 
assessment completed  for loans 4 to 9 was, at least, intended to be based on Mrs Ws total 
household income and expenditure  including Mrs W and her husband. That said, I still 
have concerns about the scrutiny that Provident  should have  applied  to the information used 
on the expenditure side of the assessment. 
To explain, as I set out in my provisional  decision,  it isnt unreasonable to expect Provident 
to have included  all of Mrs Ws husbands (who for the sake  of simplicity Ill refer to as       
Mr W from here onwards) regular expenditure in its affordability assessment should his 
income have been taken  into consideration.  But the clarification Provident  has provided and 
the arguments it has made in relation to the credit  bureau data, suggests to me that its only   
Mrs Ws existing  credit commitments that were included on the expenditure side of the 
assessment.    
Ref: DRN036231518I accept that its possible  Mr W didnt have  any existing credit commitments  and so it doesnt 
automatically follow that not including any expenditure for credit  means  that any assessment 
was inaccurate.  But given  Mr W appears  to have been the party in receipt of a large 
proportion of the declared income,  this would  be unusual.  
I also have to question  the reasonableness and proportionality of only completing a credit 
check on Mrs W, when  the affordability assessment was based on the household income 
and expenditure.  Indeed I havent  seen anything to indicate that Mr W was even present at 
the time of these  applications and so any declaration may well have been based on Mrs Ws 
knowledge of her husbands  commitments, rather than Mr Ws knowledge and so, in any 
event, may well have been  incomplete.     
Im also mindful that paragraph 1.3.3 of Providents response to my provisional  decision 
says:
Home  Credit customers typically have little leeway  in their day to day finances and little or 
no savings. As a result, these consumers can be disproportionately affected by income or 
expenditure shocks. Home Credit is used by customers to smooth  the ups and downs in 
both income and expenditure. Many users  of Home Credit may not receive the same income 
each month  due to the nature of their employment.
Given the proportion  of the joint income that was made up of Mr Ws wage, the fact that 
Provident felt the need  to carry out a credit search on Mrs W, and the fact that (by 
Providents own admission) home  credit  users typically have  little leeway in their finances,  I 
would have expected Provident  to have asked about Mr Ws circumstances and 
commitments and to have taken steps to verify the accuracy of whatever  was declared as  
Mr Ws existing  credit commitments.
Furthermore, Providents submission that its agent recorded in the CDF Mrs and Mr Ws joint 
expenditure leaves me even less persuaded about  the plausibility of the figure recorded for 
non-credit related  regular  outgoings. In my provisional decision,  I couldnt see how 
Providents agent could reasonably have believed that Mrs W could have had non-financial 
regular outgoings  of just £60 per week  covering food, energy,  travel,  clothing, insurance,  
council tax etc.  bearing in mind she had two dependants. 
I said this while open to the possibility  that this was Mrs Ws contribution to these costs  
thinking that Mr W might have been  responsible  for meeting the remainder. Now that 
Provident has confirmed  that CDF actually recorded  Mrs and Mr Ws joint expenditure I find 
the amount recorded  for a family of four - to be even more implausible. 
Ive seen what Provident has said about  Mrs W having sufficient disposable income  during 
loans 4 to 9 to cover  unforeseen  costs and that the disposable income recorded met 
reasonable standards for the customers it served.  But I think  that this somewhat misses the 
point here.  Costs such as food, energy,  travel, clothing, insurance, council tax etc arent 
unforeseen expenses. Mr and Mrs W will have had to pay these costs. And given the 
implausibility of the figure for the familys expenditure,  their recorded disposable income 
strikes me as equally implausible and I think that, most probably,  it was significantly 
inaccurate and should  have been  probed. 
So the fact that the CDFs  for loans 4 to 9 recorded  a disposable income  which might have 
met Providents standards doesnt persuade  me that those disposable  income calculations 
are accurate, nor that Mrs W could sustainably repay these loans.  And for the sake of 
Ref: DRN036231519completeness, Id also add that my concerns about the veracity and rigour applied to the 
income and expenditure information obtained  mean  that Im not persuaded simply adding an 
amount to reflect the missing revolving credit payments  of £52 per week (i.e. the 
repayments attributable  to the additional debt which Provident has now highlighted) is a 
sufficient adjustment  for Provident now to judge that it was fair and reasonable for it to have  
provided loan 9 to Mrs W either.      
    
Providents arguments regarding Mrs Ws loans having  been  fully repaid
Provident has argued that Mrs W ultimately  paid down the capital and interest on all its loans 
and that an analysis of the credit bureau  data provided indicates that she wasnt  running into 
difficulty on other credit or relying on loans from other providers to repay her Provident  ones.  
And it says these factors indicate that loans 4 to 9 were provided responsibly.
Provident has also said that its agents were  self-employed  prior to September 2017 and that 
the commission its agents received was principally derived from the amount collected from 
customers  rather than the amount lent to them  and that this disincentivised poor lending  
decisions.
Whilst considering Providents arguments, Ive borne in mind what it has said in section 1.4 
of its response entitled Home Credit: Assessing Credit Worthiness and Affordability in 
general: the 3 Cs and what  it has said in section 1.8 entitled No Incentive to Make Poor  
Lending Decisions. And having done  all of this, I think that Providents arguments in relation 
to Mrs Ws loans having been repaid are somewhat misguided. Id like to explain why. 
Its interesting to note that Provident  considers Character, which it says is the customers 
willingness to repay a debt, to be the most important of its 3 Cs. And I think  that this is 
reflected in how it has viewed Mrs Ws repayment history.
I say this because  whilst  I accept that all of Mrs Ws loans  (apart from loan 12) were  repaid, 
Provident is overlooking the fact that loans 3,4,5,6,7,8  and 9 were all settled with funds  from 
later Provident loans. So while Mrs W might  have shown a willingness to repay  her debt and 
her credit file might not show that she was borrowing from other lenders to repay Provident, I 
dont think its reasonable to say that loans  4 to 9 were repaid in full without Mrs W borrowing 
further. 
Equally while I can see why a borrower having  shown willingness to repay  previous loans 
(what Provident terms a borrowers  character)  might have provided Provident with 
increased confidence that it would get back what it was lending and so might  be the most 
important aspect from  the point of view of its own credit risk, Im not persuaded that is a key 
factor to assessing  affordability for Mrs W.      
In my view, its the second of Providents 3 Cs Capacity (which  Provident says refers  to a 
customers ability to meet their repayments) which is by far the most important aspect of any 
affordability assessment  and is of paramount importance to ensuring that a fair lending  
decision is made. 
After all a customer may be willing to make repayments or even have an overwhelming 
desire to avoid defaulting.  But  they may end up doing so by using unsustainable methods  
such as borrowing further (either from the same lender or an alternative one) or cutting back  
on basic living expenses or other  commitments. -. And my experience  of irresponsible and/or 
unaffordable lending  cases  has shown  me that it is precisely this determination  to avoid 
Ref: DRN036231520defaulting which often  leads to a customer borrowing  further even at the expense  of 
worsening their situation by incurring still greater liabilities.
In this case, I set out, in some  detail, in my provisional decision what effect Mrs W settling 
her loans in the way that she did had on her overall borrowing costs  she paid enormous 
amounts of interest,  far exceeding the amount borrowed, which unsustainably increased her 
debt until she finally ended up defaulting on loan 12. And while Providents response has 
focused on its loans  having been repaid  it hasnt  engaged on the costs Mrs W incurred as a 
result of her repaying her loans in this way, or explained why it was fair and reasonable to 
continue lending to Mrs W notwithstanding  this. 
I can see that one of the arguments Provident  has advanced in favour of its home lending 
model and the high interest rates charged  within it, is that borrowers are permitted to delay 
repayments without  penalty. This is because there are no late payment or arrears  charges 
so this doesnt add to the interest  burden and, in its view,  ensures that a borrower  never 
pays more than the original contracted amount. 
But in circumstances  where an agent  refinances  a loan with another larger  one  as 
happened in this case - any potential benefits  of this system - in terms of an interest amount 
that isnt added to and the ability to delay payments, are lost. In my view,  repaying loans in 
this way clearly results in the interest compounding  and new (usually  significantly) higher 
payments falling due on pretty much the same dates  as the original lower  payments would  
have.
Provident has also sought to persuade me that its general business model provides no 
incentive for agents to make poor lending decisions. I have considered  this argument. But it 
hasnt persuaded  me to alter my conclusions about its lending  to Mrs W.
Whilst I make no findings about  what motivated the agent in this case,  I think  that it is 
possible that agents could just as easily have advanced loans - without  having  proper regard 
to whether or not they were affordable  in the knowledge that they could still receive  their 
commission by arranging  a further  loan to repay  an initial  one should  a customer  encounter 
any difficulty repaying. Indeed one of Mrs Ws main  arguments, in this case,  is that she was 
offered further  loans  when in arrears without  being  told that this would be much  more 
expensive. 
So, I have no reason not to accept that Providents agents might  well have received the 
majority of their commission  on loan repayments  rather than loan approvals. But this case  
shows how prior loans can be repaid by subsequent loans.  And  I can see nothing  in 
Providents submission  that this method  of repayment would deprive an agent  of 
commission. Overall  Im not persuaded that Mrs Ws loans having  been repaid or 
Providents lending  model in themselves, or taken together,  mean that Provident reached fair 
lending outcomes on loans 4 to 9. 
Loan Purpose, purpose of home  credit and repeat lending  in this context
Provident also responded to my comments regarding the loan purpose  recorded for each of 
Mrs Ws loans.  
In my provisional decision,  I queried the meaning of the family category, which was the 
purpose selected for loans 4 to 7, and asked whether a loan taken for this purpose meant 
that the loan was being taken to cover day-to-day family spending. Provident has said that 
Ref: DRN036231521family related expenditure wasnt  a need  but more of a luxury  item such  as a birthday, 
Christmas or leisure item that a customer wished to purchase.
In relation to loans  8 and 9, Provident  has said the purpose recorded was holiday.  It says 
these loans were taken in the summer  holidays and a year apart and the amounts are 
reasonable and proportionate to a budget family holiday  for four people.  As I understand it 
Provident is of the view that these arguments  point to these loans  being  taken out for 
separate, discrete and distinct needs rather than because  Mrs W was struggling financially.  
And this means  that loans 4 to 9 were utilised  in the way home credits intended use.
Ive thought about what Provident has said. But Im not in agreement with its view on these 
matters. While Provident suggests that loans  4 to 7 may have been taken to cover  a luxury 
item  such  as a birthday, Christmas or leisure item - there isnt anything, at all, to 
corroborate this being the case here.  
For example, only one of these loans (loan  7, on 16 November  2012) was taken anywhere 
near Christmas. And even  then more than a third of the £700 advanced went towards paying 
loan 4. Loans 4 to 6 were all taken much earlier in the year and as I explained  in my 
provisional decision more  than half the £800 advanced went towards settling loans 3 and 5. I 
accept that its possible  that when viewed  individually  loans 4 and 5 might have been  taken 
to purchase luxury items given Mrs W appears  to have received all of the funds advanced. 
But Mrs Ws increasing indebtedness  by the time of loan 4, doesnt  persuade  me that this is 
more likely than not the case.
Id also add that while the circumstances  at the time of loans 8 and 9 (the timing  and the 
amounts) when taken  in isolation may,  at first glance, support Providents argument that 
these loans were taken for family  holidays,  Providents argument is far less plausible when 
the broader circumstances at the time of the applications and the overall  context of Mrs Ws 
borrowing history is considered.       
To explain, as I understand it Provident argues that loan 8 being taken in July 2013 (in the 
summer holidays) for an amount of £1,100.00  is reasonable  grounds  for concluding that this 
loan was used  for the recorded  purpose  of a holiday. In its view, the amount is reasonable 
and proportionate to a budget family holiday for four people at that time. I dont agree with 
this for two reasons.
Firstly, Im not entirely persuaded by the notion that £1,100 would  be enough for a family  
holiday for four people   whether budget  or not  in the peak holiday season. That said,  
even if I leave my concerns about this to one side, I think that Provident  is overlooking  the 
fact that Mrs W didnt  receive anywhere near £1,100 when loan 8 was approved in July 
2013. This was because  almost half of the funds advanced (£540.02) went  towards  repaying  
loan 6. 
So Mrs W only received £559.98. And while there is an argument for saying that £1,100  
could be enough  for a budget holiday for four people in the peak season (which Im not 
entirely persuaded by), I think  that it would be stretching the bounds  of credulity to 
reasonably conclude that £559.98 would be enough  for this. I say this while especially 
mindful of the fact that its difficult to have  much confidence at all in the reason recorded  
given the very brief description and the fact that no record at all was made of the definite 
purpose of almost half the funds  settling the balance on loan 6. 
Ref: DRN036231522Im also mindful that Mrs W had been borrowing from Provident for an unbroken period of 
approaching five years by the time she was provided with loan 9. And while  Ive thought 
about the points Provident made  in section 1.3 of its response (regarding  the users  of home 
credit and the FCAs High Cost Credit  review),  I had considered much of this in my 
provisional decision, and Id like to once  again  refer to the FCAs comments in paragraph 
3.14 of CP18/12, which states: 
we are concerned  that there is a small core of customers who are using home- collected  
credit over an extended period and that some customers are being unduly influenced by 
firms representatives to keep borrowing.
In my provisional decision,  I invited Providents comments  on this paragraph as I was of the 
view that Mrs Ws borrowing  circumstances and lending history  (in terms of having  a 
significant number  of refinanced loans) suggested  that she may have been one of the 
customers in this category. And while I acknowledge that the FCA has said that repeat 
lending wont always lead to an unfair  outcome for consumers, I think it would  be helpful for 
me to restate why I thought the loans provided from loan four onwards were unsustainable 
for Mrs W given the circumstances of this case.  
The conclusion that I reached in my provisional  decision has not changed  as a result of 
anything Provident  has told me. Mrs Ws pattern of consistently settling loans with funds 
from later ones was indicative of a customer whose debt had become unsustainable. And 
Provident continuing to provide Mrs W with loans in this way, meant that she was paying  
Provident high amounts  of interest  for the privilege of it allowing her to continue  to delay 
dealing with her unsustainable debt. Providents  own literature from the time (which I 
referred to in my provisional decision) suggests  that it knew  that home  credit  was unsuitable 
for longer term borrowing. 
I accept that providing  a consumer with more than one home  credit  loan and/or a consumer 
being lent to for longer than the originally agreed term, wont, in itself, always  produce an 
unfair outcome for a consumer. And for the avoidance of doubt I want to be clear in saying 
that isnt the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision or this decision.
What Im doing in this case  is deciding whether it was fair and reasonable for Provident to 
have provided  this many loans to Mrs W, for these amounts,  in the way that it did for this 
extended period  of time. And I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Provident to 
provide Mrs W with this series of loans  over this extended period when the effect was the 
same (indeed worse, given the compounding  effect  of the multiple refinances) as it providing 
a single loan encompassing this period whilst  knowing that itd never provide a single loan 
on these terms. 
And, in my view, Provident did this in circumstances  where it ought  to have seen that Mrs W 
was already struggling financially. This together with Providents failure to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks, is the primary reason  why I think that Provident also 
unfairly provided loans  4 to 9 (as well as loans 10 to 12) to Mrs W.
Having carefully thought  about all of Providents  further points, I remain of the view that    
Mrs Ws complaint  about loans 4 to 9 (as well as loans 10 to 12) should  be upheld.  So I think  
that Provident should put things right for Mrs W. And Ill now set out what I think  Provident 
should do.
Ref: DRN036231523Fair compensation  what  Provident needs  to do to put things right  for Mrs W
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Provident putting Mrs W 
in the position shed  now be in if she hadnt  been  given  the loans from loan 4 onwards.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mrs W 
was given the loans in question and she used the funds   albeit shes used some  of the 
funds to repay previous ones. So, in these  circumstances,  I cant  undo whats already been 
done. And its simply not possible  to put Mrs W back in the position she would be in if she 
hadnt been given these  loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Provident  to put things right in the 
following way.
Interest and charges on the loans Mrs W shouldnt  have  been provided with
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, Provident continually  lending to Mrs W left her in 
a position where  she wasnt  able to properly settle  her debt.  This was because Mrs W kept 
having to find additional funds to pay the (increasing) interest and charges on her Provident 
loans. 
Mrs W then had to borrow  again from Provident  to either  make  payments to earlier loans or 
cover the hole in her finances and she incurred  more  interest  and charges when she did this. 
After my provisional decision,  Provident refunded the interest and charges (plus interest at 
8% simple  per annum) paid on loans  10 to 12. As I still think that Provident shouldnt  have 
provided loans  4 to 9 either, it should now also refund the interest and charges Mrs W paid 
on loans 4 to 9.
Im also mindful that Mrs W lost the use of the funds she used to pay the interest  and 
charges. As Mrs W lost the use of these funds,  I think  that she should be compensated for 
this. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on the interest and charges  that were  paid, 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So Provident  should pay Mrs W 8% per year simple  interest on the interest and charges she 
paid from the dates those charges were paid to the date it settles  Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN036231524Mrs Ws credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
But Im upholding  Mrs Ws complaint about loans 4 to 12 because I think the overall  pattern 
of lending increased Mrs Ws indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or harmful  in 
some other way. 
Ive also explained  that there were two main  adverse consequences  of Provident having 
given Mrs W so many loans. Firstly  it caused  her to pay an excessive amount of interest  and 
charges. And Ive already  explained how Mrs W should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the number of loans and the period Provident lent to Mrs W is likely to 
have had implications  for her ability to access mainstream credit. The greater the presence 
of these loans  on Mrs Ws credit  file (and the longer the period of time this spanned)  the less 
likely Mrs W was able to rehabilitate her finances and regain access to mainstream credit.  
And I think my direction in relation to Mrs Ws credit file needs to reflect this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mrs Ws credit 
history and creditworthiness  in order to enable a lender to make an informed decision on 
whether to lend to her, I think that the mere presence of this level of lending  for this period of 
time on Mrs Ws credit file, in itself, constitutes  adverse information. I think  that the 
impression that is likely  to be generated from Mrs Ws credit file is unfair  to her and 
potentially misleading  to prospective  lenders,  because if Provident had behaved fairly and 
reasonably towards  her, loans  4 to 12 would not have  been provided in the first place.
I think that this many  home-collected  credit loans over the period of time they were  taken 
appearing on Mrs Ws credit file is likely to continue unfairly adversely affecting Mrs W going 
forwards. In these circumstances,  I think that it is fair and reasonable for Provident to 
remove all reference to loans 4 to 12 from Mrs Ws credit file, as the number of loans (and 
the period of time they cover) in itself is adverse  information.
All of this means  that (in addition to what it has already  paid Mrs W in compensation for 
loans 10 to 12) Provident also now needs  to:
refund  all the interest, fees and charges for loans 4 to 9; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid by Mrs W to the date of settlement;
remove all reference to loans  4 to 12, where  they remain, from Mrs Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident  to take off tax from this interest. Provident 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN036231525My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision  of 23 October 2019, Im 
upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Provident  Personal Credit Limited should pay Mrs W 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN036231526appendix  relevant  considerations  as set out in my provisional  decision
A the legal and regulatory  framework  
B other relevant publications
A the legal and regulatory  framework
Regulation by the Office  of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
Provident gave  Mrs W her first 8 loans in the period up to the end of March 2014. During this 
time it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order  to carry 
out consumer  credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1)In determining whether an applicant for a licence  is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a)the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses,  consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  
businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge and experience  of other  persons who the applicant  
proposes will participate in any business  that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence  is evidence tending to show that the applicant,  or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body  corporate,  any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such  person, has
(a)committed any offence  involving fraud or other  dishonesty or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it 
relates to the consumer  credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other  enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
Ref: DRN036231527(c)contravened any provision in force  in an EEA State  which  corresponds  to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph  (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins  in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e)engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful  
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether  unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis] .
Section 25(2B)  set out a direct example of the type of practice referred  to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful  or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices in the carrying  
on of a consumer  credit business  that appear  to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, as required  by s.25A,  the OFT produced guidance on the test for 
irresponsible lending  for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
And so it issued its guidance  on irresponsible lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central  importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Mrs Ws case.
The foreword to the guidance  set out its purpose  and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business  practices that the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes  of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.  It indicates  types  of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper  business practices  which, if engaged in by a consumer credit  
business, could  call into consideration its fitness  to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance  represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending,  it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive  list of behaviours and practices which  might  constitute irresponsible  
lending.
Section two of the guidance  sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's  view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer  protection and 
fair business practice which  apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising,  selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit  agreement
Ref: DRN036231528make  a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet  
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features  of the credit  agreement to enable  the borrower  to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment  record during the course  of the agreement,  
offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations  of lenders. Amongst  other  things, it says:
In addition to the above  there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted  with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure  selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which  
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable  by virtue of their current indebtedness,  poor 
credit history,  or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted  or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required  to carry out before granting credit. Section  4.1 says:
In the OFT's  view, all assessments  of affordability  should involve  a consideration of the 
potential for the credit  commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account  of information that the creditor  is aware  of at the time the credit is granted.  
The extent  and scope  of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors  (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties  and/or  experiencing  adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN036231529In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance.  And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit  that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings,  without having to realise  security  or assets.
Section 4.4 goes  on to describe undue difficulty  and says:
The OFT would regard  'without undue  difficulty'  in this context as meaning  the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality  principle  set out in section  4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such  as:
the type of credit  product;
the amount  of credit to be provided  and the associated  cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history,  including any indications of the borrower experiencing 
(or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types  and sources of information  that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
Ref: DRN036231530a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Section 4.15 concerns the verification of income and expenditure for the purposes of making 
an appropriate assessment of affordability. It states:
In our view,  creditors who do not require documentary evidence of income and/or 
expenditure as part of their assessment of affordability,  but rather  accept information 
provided by the borrower without any supporting evidence or, in the alternative,  do not seek  
any information on income and/or expenditure at all as part of their assessment, should  
ensure that whatever means  and sources of information they employ  are sufficient  to make 
an appropriate assessment. We do not consider that self-certification  of income would 
generally be sufficient  in respect  of significant  long-term credit agreements, particularly those 
secured on property.
Section 4.16 specifically  touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-term  
credit. It says:
Whilst the OFT accepts, as a general  principle from a proportionality  perspective,  that the 
level of scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be somewhat less than 
for large  sum and/or  long term credit, we consider that creditors should  also take account of 
the fact that the risk of the credit being unsustainable would be directly related to the amount 
of credit granted (and associated  interest / charges etc.) relative to the borrowers financial 
situation
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible  lending  
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  
include where a lender  is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case  or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information  to be able to reasonably assess  affordability,  prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running  account credit agreement)
This could  (but not necessarily)  include for example:

Where applicable,  appropriate and proportionate, failing to verify details of current  income 
and/or expenditure by, for example, checking hard copies  of payslip/contract of employment 
(when a borrower  is in employment),  accountants letters (where  a borrower is self-
employed) or benefit statements (where a borrower is not in employment). 
And Section 4.26 says a business  would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability  assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders  treatment of information  disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice  where a lender:
Ref: DRN036231531fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application  relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application  for credit  under  circumstances in which it is known,  or reasonably  
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards  to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending  practices  relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory  
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes  on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate  actionwhen/if  there are signs of 
apparent / possible  repayment difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation implementing the provisions of the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. At this point the ILG was amended to 
reflect any changes required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional  
requirement on a lender  to carry out an Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in 
section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force  until regulation of 
Consumer Credit providers passed  to the FCA in April 2014.
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making  a regulated consumer credit agreement,  other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the 
debtor.
(2) Before significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided  under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated  consumer credit  
agreement, other than an excluded agreement,  the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness  assessment must  be based  on sufficient information obtained 
from
Ref: DRN036231532(a)the debtor,  where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement  if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes  an article  in pawn..
By the time of loan 9 and for all of Mrs Ws subsequent loans (1 April 2014 onwards) this 
requirement to assess creditworthiness moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the 
rules of the new regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from  1 April 2014)
Provident gave  Mrs W loans 9 to 12 after regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees  had 
transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. 
Provident initially obtained interim  permission to provide consumer credit before it went  on to 
successfully apply for authorisation. Providents interim permission to provide consumer 
credit and its eventual authorisation to do so meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and 
regulations from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like Provident. CONC 
also replaced the requirements  set out in Section  55B. CONC 5 sets out a firms  obligations 
in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer 
has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6 when they were introduced in April 
2014. As is evident  from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and 
refer back to sections  of the OFTs  Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
Ref: DRN036231533(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
Ref: DRN036231534completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
All of Mrs Ws loans  were given to her after Section 140A of the Consumer Credit  Act came 
into force  on 6 April 2007. Section 140A sets out circumstances where the court  may 
determine that the relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
Ref: DRN036231535(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
Ref: DRN036231536B other relevant publications
The FCAs Portfolio Strategy Letter to firms providing high cost lending  products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all 
firms allocated to the High  Cost Lenders  portfolio, which Provident is part of. I accept that 
this letter  was published sometime after Mrs Ws agreements were entered  into. But given 
that this letter didnt include any new rules and deals with how firms  ought  to be handling 
complaints about  whether their previous lending was unaffordable, I do think  that it offers  
some insight on the FCAs perspective  on the rules. So I do consider it to be of some 
relevance in this case.   
The letter set out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers 
and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its view of the 
key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may not be 
able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus  for all firms in the portfolio  on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending:  We have  seen a high volume  of relending across all credit products in the 
portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can better 
understand the motivation  for, and impact  of, relending on both consumers  and firms. This 
work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing journeys, firms 
marketing strategies for offering  additional credit and the costs of relending  for consumers. 
We want to understand  what  harm,  if any, relending may cause consumers. As part of this 
work, we will proactively engage with home-collected credit  firms  to ensure they understand 
our expectations. We will also discuss any changes to their processes as a result  of the new 
rules and guidance on relending which we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement 
on high-cost credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there  is an inherent challenge for these firms  in assessing 
affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost  credit  customers finances  
are often squeezed and they may have  poor credit  histories and low financial  resilience.  
Nevertheless, firms  must ensure that they are complying with all our affordability 
requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the Dear  CEO letter we sent to 
Ref: DRN036231537HCSTC firms  in October 2018. While this letter was aimed at HCSTC firms, the main 
principles are relevant  to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally the section entitled Complaints  it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints about  many 
of the products in this portfolio. Firms should  ensure  that they are handling  complaints 
appropriately. We expect  firms to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing  the root 
causes of complaints  and taking into account the Financial Ombudsman  Services  relevant 
decisions. We gave  further detail about what we expect from firms  complaint-handling 
procedures in the Dear  CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is 
equally relevant  to all firms in the portfolio.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
Ref: DRN0362315