K820x#14Complaint
Mr H doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which  he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
Background
Mr H complained to RBS in 2017  that he had been mis-sold PPI on seven loans.
RBS investigated  and upheld Mr Hs complaint. RBS wrote to Mr H offering compensation. 
The compensation figure was reduced by a successful claim Mr H had made on the PPI 
totalling £6,791.44.
Mr H accepted RBS  offer.
However, in 2010,  Mr H had granted a trust deed  which became a protected trust deed  
for his creditors.
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which
is administered by a trustee.
Mr H was subsequently discharged from his trust deed in 2016.
RBS used the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Mr H hadnt fully 
repaid on the last loan, despite Mr H being discharged  from his protected trust deed.
Mr H, unhappy he hadnt received the compensation, brought  his complaint to our service.
Mr H says it is unfair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which  he 
has been discharged. Mr H said there had been  a court case which  focused  on whom PPI 
compensation should be paid to when a consumer  has been discharged from a protected  
trust deed. Because of this, Mr H says the compensation  should  be paid directly to him. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought RBS had acted fairly in using the
compensation to reduce the borrowing that was left unpaid despite Mr H being discharged 
from his trust deed.
Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services  powers come from.
We were created by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA).  This Act also
created whats now called the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
Section 225 of FSMA explains  that were here to resolve disputes quickly  and with minimum
formality. And section 228 says a complaint is to be determined by reference  to what is, in
the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Alongside FSMA, the FCA sets out, in its handbook, some rules  for us to follow. These rules
are known as the DISP  rules  and they can be found online.
Ref: DRN08846132DISP 3.6.1 R repeats  section 228 of FSMA. DISP 3.6.4 R adds that, when considering what
is fair and reasonable, an ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes  of practice; and
(2) (where  appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good
industry practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that the PPI policies were mis-sold. So I wont  be looking at how
the PPI came to be sold as that is no longer in dispute. And Mr H hasnt raised any concerns 
about the amount of compensation RBS has offered.  Although from looking at what  RBS has 
offered it includes everything  I would  expect to see.
All that is left for me to decide  is whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use the PPI
compensation to reduce the outstanding  amount that Mr H says was written  off after he was 
discharged from his protected trust deed.
Mr H says that as he was discharged from his protected trust deed and in light of relevant 
law (Scots law), all of the compensation should be paid directly  to him.
RBS says it has the right to offset  the compensation against monies Mr H hasnt fully repaid.
Is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed 
despite Mr H being discharged from his protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to whom PPI compensation should  be paid when
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. And this is the law that
Mr H says I should rely on in determining what should happen  to the compensation.
Ill summarise  the relevant  court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Donnelly v Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc [2017]  SAC
(Civ) 1. And this is the case  that is more relevant to Mr Hs situation.
In Donnelly , the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Ref: DRN08846133Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. But Im not bound  to follow  it. And if
I decide to depart from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Hs complaint  as required of me through  
FSMA Section 228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation  to reduce the monies
Mr H borrowed  and didnt fully repay. Ill explain why.
RBS has provided evidence to show that when loan seven was written  off, the loan had an 
outstanding balance of around £12,000. This is money that Mr H wont  now ever have  to 
repay to RBS.
The fact that Mr H entered  into a protected trust deed and was discharged  from his debt 
when his trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation  to Mr H, when Mr H doesnt 
have to pay back the many thousands of pounds he borrowed. So it follows that I think its 
fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the borrowing that was left unpaid  and 
that Mr H wont now ever have repay.
Mr H has commented on the amount of premiums he paid. But he would have only paid the 
amount quoted at the outset of the loans  if the loans had run to term. None of them did, so 
the PPI premiums he actually paid were considerably less. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to
use Mr Hs PPI compensation to reduce the monies  owed and left unpaid when Mr Hs trust 
deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0884613