K822xcomplaint
Miss R complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was wrong  to lend her money that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
Miss R wants  Uncle Buck  to refund the interest  and charges that she paid on the loans and 
remove any negative information  about them from her credit file.
background 
Miss R took out six instalment loans with Uncle Buck between October 2015 and October 
2017. A summary  of her lending is below:
No. Loan start dateScheduled loan 
end dateAmount 
LentTermHighest  month 
Payment
1 01/10/2015 24/12/2015 £300 3 £147.31
2 23/12/2015 24/03/2016 £400 3 £207.31
3 07/11/2016 27/01/2017 £300 3 £139.77
4 01/04/2017 27/06/2017 £300 3 £148.43
5 05/07/2017 27/09/2017 £500 3 £241.33
6 02/10/2017 27/12/2017 £500 3 £245.15
The adjudicator didnt think that it was unreasonable of Uncle  Buck to agree loans one and 
two. The adjudicator thought that Uncle Buck should have turned down Miss Rs applications 
for loans  three to six.
The adjudicator asked Uncle Buck to refund the interest and charges that Miss R had paid 
on loans three to six together with interest on the refund. He asked Uncle  Buck to remove 
any negative information about loan three from Miss Rs credit file. The adjudicator asked 
Uncle Buck  to remove all entries about loans four to six.
Uncle Buck  disagreed with most of what the adjudicator  recommended. Uncle Buck  said that 
it gave Miss R a choice of ranges to include when  she completed her expenditure 
information. Uncle Buck said that it took the highest  value which means  this added in a 
buffer.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree that the pattern of lending indicated a reliance on short  term lending. 
It also highlighted some inconsistencies in the information that Miss R gave about  her 
income and outgoings.
Uncle Buck  said that given the significant gap between  loan two and three,  we should 
consider loan three as the start of a new chain of lending.
Uncle Buck  offered to put things right for loan five. But Miss R wasnt willing  to accept Uncle  
Bucks offer so the complaint came to me.
Ref: DRN03951552my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to uphold this complaint in 
part but as I included some additional information,  I gave Miss R and Uncle Buck  the 
opportunity to respond.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure that 
Miss R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck was required to 
establish whether  Miss R could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) defines sustainable  as being without undue difficulties. 
In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able to make  their make their repayments in a sustainable manner 
if sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ref: DRN03951553I carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all meant  for Miss Rs complaint.
I agreed with the adjudicator that it was reasonable of Uncle Buck  to agree loans one and 
two based on what it knew about  Miss R and the information that she gave about  her 
finances. So I didnt  uphold Miss Rs complaint about loans one and two.
As Uncle Buck had already  agreed  to put things right for loan five, I said I would focus  
instead on loans  three,  four and six.
loan three
Uncle Buck  recorded  Miss Rs net monthly  income  to be £1,381 and she declared monthly 
outgoings including credit commitments of £1,200.
The adjudicator thought  that as Miss R needed  to repay almost £140 each month over three 
months, she was left with about £40 of monthly  disposable income which wasnt  enough to 
say that the loan repayments were sustainable.
Uncle Buck  said that when it recorded  Miss Rs expenditure, it built in a buffer  for each 
category. For example,  if a customer said their rent was £185 each month, Uncle  Buck 
would treat this as being in a band  of £176 to £200  and would therefore take the higher limit 
of £200.
After thinking  carefully about what Uncle Buck said about the buffer  it didnt change  my 
opinion. I looked  at Miss Rs credit  file and could see that her monthly mortgage repayments 
were £493.  By Uncle Buck recording a figure of £500 for this expenditure, it only gave 
Miss R a buffer  of £7. 
Uncle Bucks credit  search also showed  that Miss R had outstanding credit  balances of more  
than £6,900. It seemed likely that this meant Miss R was repaying various credit card and 
loan companies  more than the £100  figure that Uncle  Buck recorded under the store or 
credit card section, even if I added in the £50 for other expenditure. 
Overall, I wasnt persuaded that by taking the higher figure  for each category Miss R was left 
with enough disposable income  to say that loan three was sustainable. It would have only 
needed a relatively small unexpected expense to mean  that Miss R couldnt make  one or all 
of the repayments  on loan three.
I upheld Miss Rs complaint about  loan three.
loans four and six
The adjudicator thought  that by the time of loan four, Uncle  Buck shouldve reasonably seen 
that further lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  so that Uncle Buck should have 
realised that it shouldnt have given Miss R any more loans.
Uncle Buck  made the point that there  was a large  gap between  Miss R settling loan two and 
taking out loan three. And that this gap was significant enough  to break  the chain of lending.  
Ref: DRN03951554Even if I was to agree that the gap in lending broke  the chain, I thought Uncle  Buck had 
enough evidence  to suggest that Miss R couldnt  sustainably afford loan four onwards and 
that her indebtedness was increasing in an unsustainable way. 
Uncle Bucks credit  search showed that at some point between  taking out loan three and 
applying for loan four, the balance on Miss Rs mortgage account had increased by more 
than £10,000.  
It looked as though Miss R took out a second mortgage of just over £11,000 shortly  before 
she applied  for loan four. If Uncle Buck had asked further questions  about this, I considered 
it wouldve  had concerns about  whether Miss R could afford to take on more  debt. 
Uncle Bucks records  indicated that after making her monthly repayments on loan four,   
Miss R was left with £100 of disposable  income. However, the figures  that Uncle  Buck held 
didnt appear to include Miss Rs second  mortgage repayments. Miss R was making monthly 
repayments of £236.  If I added  this figure  to Miss Rs other  mortgage repayment  of just 
under £500,  then she wasnt  left with any disposable  income to be able to afford the 
repayments on loan four.
For all of the above reasons, I thought that Uncle Buck shouldve reasonably seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.  
I thought that Miss R lost out because  Uncle Buck  continued  lend to her from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the sheer number  of loans including the declined  loan applications were likely to have 
had negative implications on Miss Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So as well as upholding loan three, I was minded to uphold Miss Rs complaint about loans 
four to six.
further submissions
Uncle Buck  disagrees  with my provisional decision. It says that it spoke to Miss R to verify 
her income and expenditure so it cant be held responsible if she gave inaccurate 
information about her finances. Uncle Buck questions  why this service  appears to be 
condoning a misrepresentation by omission.
Uncle Buck  says that Miss Rs property was sold in 2015 giving her a sizeable equity in in it.
Uncle Buck  says that Miss Rs credit report shows that a number of her loans had ended 
before she applied for loan four. And that in particular, a 24 month loan ended around the 
time that Miss R took out the second mortgage.
Uncle Buck  says that according to Miss Rs credit report, her monthly spend on mortgage  
and fixed loans was lowers around the time of loan four than it was for loan three.
Ref: DRN03951555Miss R accepts my provisional decision but points out that she has repaid all her loans.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Uncle  Buck says about Miss R confirming  her income and expenditure by 
phone. I dont have much in the way of detail about  this call but regardless of what was 
discussed, I consider  that Uncle Buck already had enough information about Miss Rs credit  
commitments, to know that it was likely that she had more outgoings than had been 
disclosed. And that this meant  the buffer that Uncle Buck appears to have  relied upon wasnt  
sufficient to say that Miss R could sustainably afford loan three.
Even if some of Miss Rs other loans had come to an end by the time of loan four, Uncle  
Buck recorded her monthly expenditure to be £1,200 against  an income of under £1,400. 
This left Miss R with less than £200  from which  to pay the monthly repayment on loan four of 
around £148. And Miss R had also taken out a second mortgage before loan four. So the 
fact that Miss R was asking to take on more  debt from Uncle Buck  indicated  that her 
finances remained under  pressure and that loan four and any subsequent loan in the same 
chain werent sustainable.
Overall, I still consider that its still reasonable to uphold Miss Rs complaint about loans 
three to six. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss R paid on loans three to six;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove all negative entries about loan three from Miss Rs credit  file; and
remove all entries about  loans four to six from Miss Rs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss R a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require  
Uncle Buck  Finances LLP to put things right by taking the steps that Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN03951556Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0395155