K820x#14complaint
Mr W says that JM Independent Financial  Advisers Ltd (JMIFA) did not make  him aware of 
the block (buddy)  transfer system available. Mr W says had he been  made  aware of this 
option hed have taken his benefits  at age 50. Instead he cant until age 55 and hes in a 
very difficult financial situation.
background
A work colleague  referred Mr W to JMIFA in July 2016 and a fact find was completed in 
August 2016.  I understand  that several  of Mr Ws colleagues were looking  into transferring 
their employer/former  employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) at the time.
It was recorded  that Mr W had been made  redundant  and was un-employed  but expecting  to 
find a new job. And that Mr W was looking to take advantage of the new pension freedom 
rules now available  on transfer. It was recorded that Mr W was aged  49, single, owned  his 
own home without a mortgage and his OPS made up the large part of his retirement 
provision.
A recommendation was made to transfer  to a personal pension  and the plan was setup  with 
a transfer value of approximately £545,000 paid in.
Within the scheme  Mr W could retire at age 50 but with large penalties. But on transfer this 
retirement age was lost as the new plan conformed with the personal pension  rules where 
the earliest retirement age allowed is age 55. 
Subsequently Mr Ws circumstances were such that he was unable to take up new 
employment. And this has caused significant  financial difficulties as he cannot take his 
pension benefits  until age 55.
In 2017 Mr W became aware  after speaking to former colleagues that they had been  able to 
retain the protected retirement  age of 50 on transfer.  In August 2017 he raised this with 
JMIFA who said it would look into it. Another meeting took place and Mr W was unhappy 
with JMIFAs response. After talking to former  colleagues and their experiences of the 
transfer process, Mr W was unhappy that his adviser seemingly hadnt been aware of the 
block (buddy) transfer system. And a complaint was raised.
JMIFA didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint and so it was brought to this service.  An adjudicator 
looked into the complaint and concluded  that it shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said the 
legislation wasnt well known at the time.  And Mr W had approached the adviser on his own, 
so the notion of a block or buddy transfer wouldnt have been an automatic consideration.
Mr W wasnt happy with the adjudicators  view on the case. And he and his representative 
made a number of further submissions. In summary  theyve  said:
At the time of advice  Mr W had enquired about  retiring at 50. But the adviser said the 
only way to do this was to stay within  the OPS. But there were would be a significant 
reduction in benefits of around  40%
The adviser was clearly unaware of the buddy  transfer system. Had Mr W been  
made aware of this, regardless of the advisers views, he could and would have  
arranged a transfer on this basis. As Mr W wouldve wanted  to protect this retirement 
of 50.
Ref: DRN07620842Mr W had a number of options in terms of colleagues  who he couldve buddied  up 
with 
Even if the first mention or reference to block or buddy transfers was in March 2015 
as the adjudicator had said. Mr Ws representative, also a financial adviser, was 
aware of this. As were other industry  who were  advising Mr Ws colleagues
Mr W shouldnt  be punished because his adviser  didnt know  about the buddy system
The adviser after being made  aware  of the buddy transfer system was cynical about 
it believing it to be a loophole and controversial.  This shows  that he has a total lack of 
knowledge surrounding the subject
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint has come about  because Mr Ws circumstances  are such  that taking his 
benefits now would be hugely beneficial for him. Im very sorry to hear about  the problems 
Mr W is having and that this has been  made worse by not being  able to retire until 55. 
The block  or buddy transfer  system allows two or more members of an OPS if meeting  
certain criteria  such  as transferring to the same  provider at the same  time, to keep 
guarantees such the protected  retirement  age of an OPS on transfer.
At the time of advice  in mid-2016, I dont think this legislation was well known. And I think  its 
clear that the adviser wasnt aware of it. However, it does seem that other  advisers were. 
Mr W and his representative  have  provided  testimony that buddy transfers were carried  out 
for Mr Ws colleagues  around this time. And other  members of the scheme were able to 
retain their protected retirement age of 50.
I dont think its a simple case to say the adviser made  a mistake because  he wasnt aware  
of buddy transfers.  I accept there  is an argument  to say he shouldve been  aware  as an 
expert in this area. But what I need  to consider is what  the adviser reasonably  shouldve  
done based on the circumstances  then.
As part of our investigation we contacted the trustees of the OPS. And JMIFA has submitted 
evidence about  the information  it was provided  by the trustees and administrators of the 
scheme. The trustees of the OPS told us that essentially it wouldnt make any guarantees 
about the retention of a protected  retirement  age on transfer and that this was for HMRC to 
decide. 
The administrators  confirmed to JMIFA  as part of its investigations that the trustees of the 
OPS only received non-statutory  clearance for buddy transfers in July 2017 and therefore it 
wasnt added to its transfer packs until then. JMIFA  has provided evidence  of this and the 
transfer packs before and after the change.
JMIFA say this shows that the option to buddy  transfer wouldnt have been available for 
Mr W at the time. However, Im not sure I agree, seemingly the trustees  position  is still that 
its for HMRC to decide  whether  the protection is retained.  Which  suggests it allowed buddy 
transfers but with no ultimate guarantee as to what position HMRC  may take on this in the 
future. I dont think this necessarily means they werent allowing buddy transfers before the 
non-statutory clearance was received.  And Mr W and his adviser  have provided testimony 
Ref: DRN07620843that transfers were  taking  place then using the buddy system.  So due to the conflicting 
information here, I havent placed  much weight  on this argument.
However, what this does show is that neither  the trustees nor the administrators wouldve 
made JMIFA aware at the time of the option of a buddy transfer. There  was nothing  in the 
transfer pack to suggest that this was an option. And even if the adviser had been aware of 
buddy transfers prior to this, the fact that it wasnt included  as an option may have led him to 
believe it wouldnt be allowed. I say this because at the time Im aware that many  trustees  of 
OPS wouldnt allow buddy or block transfers  to take place. 
Mr W has said other advisers  were aware  of the scheme allowing buddy transfers to be 
processed prior to it appearing  in the transfer  pack.  Hed spoken to colleagues who had 
buddy transfers arranged at around the same time as him. I think a plausible  explanation for 
this is that it wouldve only taken one occasion  where an adviser or colleague of Mr Ws was 
aware of the possibility  of a buddy  transfer  for this knowledge to have spread quickly  
amongst the group.  They couldve then approached the advisers with this knowledge  and 
the adviser was then aware for future  clients. It seems that this is also what  happened  with 
JMIFA but unfortunately this was obviously  after Mr W had transferred. 
Ive considered whether anything else in the advice process ought to have led to the adviser 
recommending a buddy transfer. Mr W came to the adviser alone,  so even if he had known 
about the buddy transfer option  it may not have been an immediate consideration. And if the 
adviser carried out extra enquiries about Mr Ws options, I dont  think this wouldve have 
necessarily led him to look at or discover  the buddy  transfer option.
At the time of advice  it was recorded that Mr W was looking to retire at age 55 and aiming  to 
find new employment. But sadly, due to events, this hasnt been possible. So it is with 
unfortunate hindsight that its become clear how important retiring  at 50 wouldve been  for 
Mr W. 
I believe that Mr W did ask about retiring at 50 and I recognise that this couldve brought  the 
advisers attention  towards the buddy transfer system. But because  he didnt know  about it 
and the OPS placed significant reductions on early  retirement, this wasnt  discussed or 
documented in any detail.  But theres nothing to suggest from what  was recorded at the time 
that retiring at age 50 was important for Mr W. He was 49 then and had he been in the same  
situation he is now, I think more  attention  wouldve been paid to the options he had at age 
50  such as remaining  in the scheme.  Instead likely because there wasnt the level of 
importance there is now, Mr W was happy  for the discussion  to move onto retiring  at 55. 
I think this is important because hindsight cannot be used when considering this case. I 
understand that Mr Ws financial issues now would be resolved  if he could access  his 
pension benefits   but JMIFA wouldnt have been able to foresee this. And just because 
there was a route to keep the protected retirement  at age 50, I dont think  it follows,  when at 
the time there was no evident need to take benefits  before  55, that not carrying out a buddy  
transfer means that the advice was unsuitable. Had Mr W not suffered  the unfortunate 
events that he has, then in all likelihood  he wouldnt  have required access  to his benefits  
before age 55. 
I note that Mr W says that had he been  told about  the buddy transfer option by JMIFA he 
would have taken  it, even if JMIFA wouldnt have recommended it. But due to the 
circumstances of this complaint, its very hard to separate  this from hindsight because  it isnt 
Ref: DRN07620844supported by Mr Ws circumstances recorded  at the time, so I cannot place much weight on 
this. 
Linked to the above,  had the adviser known about the buddy system, there is still the 
question as to whether  Mr W wouldve likely taken up this option?  I recognise the choice to 
keep an earlier retirement date and the additional flexibility  it gave with no apparent 
downside is an obvious one. But to take this option,  Mr W would need  to find a colleague 
who would  agree to be advised  by the same  adviser and to make the same transfer 
arrangements as him at the same  time.  I think  this would  be quite a big hurdle to overcome. I 
know that Mr B had a lot of colleagues whod  also been made  redundant, but I dont think  
theres any guarantee hed be able to find a colleague  whod  agree.  And the evidence 
doesnt support  that Mr Ws focus on retiring at age 50 was all encompassing at the time.  So 
theres a question as to whether he wouldve been prepared  to put the energy in required to 
finding a buddy then.  
Mr Ws representative raised the point that he hasnt seen any evidence that JMIFA made 
Mr W explicitly aware that he was giving up a valuable guarantee on transfer  as per 
regulatory principles.  As Ive said earlier, I do think retiring at 50 was discussed and that Mr 
W was aware he could retire at 50 within the OPS but with significant penalties.  I think its 
very likely that in discussing this and the talk of retiring  at 55, that Mr W was made aware 
that this would be lost on transfer. And the recommendation  does,  whilst  not specific, say 
that on transfer all guarantees within the scheme would be lost. But in any event, the 
compliance of the advice  is not something this service would focus on, whats  important is 
whether this potential  non-compliance wouldve made a difference  to events. And I dont 
think it would  for the reasons outlined in this decision.
I have thought very carefully about  this case. I accept  that had Mr W gone  to another adviser  
he may well have kept his retirement  age of 50. And I can recognise how unfair that may 
seem, especially given the circumstances Mr W has found himself in.
But to uphold this complaint, Id need  to be satisfied  on the balance  of probabilities and 
without the use of hindsight that the adviser made  an error  attributable to it which caused Mr 
W to lose out. After weighing up all the circumstances  and the evidence provided,  there  are 
many factors  and variables that I think dilute the responsibility that can be placed  on JMIFA 
for Mr Ws situation.  And so, it follows  that I do not uphold  this complaint and make no 
award.
 
I know that Mr W will be very disappointed with my decision. But I have to remain  impartial  
despite my natural sympathy and make my decision irrespective of the impact on the parties 
involved.
Ref: DRN07620845my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0762084