K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  repaired their vehicle to a 
poor standard. 
background 
In October  2018 a road traffic accident left their vehicle damaged, so Mr and Mrs H made  a 
claim through their insurance policy.
Admiral arranged for the vehicle to be repaired through one of its approved repairers, who Ill 
refer to as N. N completed the repair and attempted to return  the vehicle. Mr and Mrs H 
were unhappy  with the quality of the repair  so they rejected the vehicle. Mrs H explained that 
the bumper had been repaired poorly  and that shed noticed scratches on the vehicle that 
werent there  before the repair was carried out. N took the vehicle back to put this right.  The 
vehicle was returned a second time on a few days later. Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy 
with the repair.  They highlighted additional issues and complained to Admiral.
Admiral put the complaint on hold whilst an independent inspection of the vehicle was 
arranged. Before this could be carried out, Mr and Mrs H sold the vehicle. Admiral agreed 
that some  of the repair wasnt carried out to the expected level of quality when the vehicle 
was returned the first time. Admiral  also said that the vehicle wasnt quality checked because 
the quality controller at N was on holiday. It added that it couldnt assess the condition of the 
vehicle after the second repair because the vehicle had been sold. Admiral offered Mr and 
Mrs H £150 to make up for these  issues. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators  upheld the complaint and asked Admiral to pay 
an additional  £150 compensation (a total of £300) to put things right.  
The investigator felt that Admiral shouldve provided a better service especially given an 
earlier complaint  connected  to this claim.  Although the investigator couldnt be certain  about  
whether N was responsible for all the issues with the vehicle, he was satisfied  that the 
quality of repair was poor overall. The investigator  also looked into whether the damage  
resulted in the vehicle being  sold at a lower price. Overall, he was satisfied  that the price 
Mr and Mrs H sold the vehicle for was within the expected valuation.
Mr and Mrs H accepted  the investigators  conclusion but Admiral didnt reply. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this complaint and Ill 
explain why.
As Admiral arranged to repair the vehicle through one of its approved repairers,  it is 
responsible for any problems that are a result of the accident and havent been  repaired, or 
for any problem caused by N. 
Ref: DRN02751922N checked the vehicle before carrying out repairs.  The results  of this check are in a vehicle 
appraisal document and this outlines the damage to the front bumper  which I understand 
was caused by the accident  and a dent on one door. 
It seems  the vehicle was returned twice with additional problems that didnt exist when the 
vehicle was first checked by N. Without  an independent inspection, I cant  say for certain that 
these problems were  caused  by N. 
However, I think Admiral shouldve done more to make sure this was put right the first time 
Mr and Mrs H raised  concerns. Its not for me to say exactly what Admiral couldve done, but 
I dont think it acted  fairly by waiting  until the second failed repair to look into whether N 
carried out proper  quality control. And Admiral couldve arranged an independent  inspection  
sooner, as this may have identified the cause of the problems and exactly  what N needed to 
do complete the repair to the right standard.
Admiral didnt ensure  the repairs were carried out properly and didnt put things right quickly  
enough. As a result  Mr and Mrs H suffered distress  and inconvenience. They had to contact 
Admiral to discuss the failed repairs. And the CCTV footage  they sent to this service from 
when the vehicle was originally returned shows that Mrs H was visibly upset and distressed 
because of the poor condition. I think the distress  and inconvenience due to the poor repair 
was heightened  by the previous poor handling  of the claim (which  I have considered  under a 
different complaint). And, overall, I dont  think  that £150 compensation is a fair way to make 
up for the poor repair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.  
To put things right, I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H £150 
compensation in addition  to the £150 it has already offered  a total of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0275192