K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that a used car he acquired  via a fixed sum loan with Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory  condition. He wishes to reject  the car and cancel the 
agreement.
Background
In March 2016 Mr S entered  into a four year fixed sum loan with Santander for a used car. 
The car was three years  old and had a mileage  around 19,500.
In March 2018 the car broke down and Mr S arranged  for it to go back  to the dealership. He 
had driven the car for some 13,360 miles.  Mr S said he thought  the issue with the engine 
was related to its coolant system  and it overheating, causing damage. He said the particular 
engine in his car was known to have a fault. Mr S said the dealership told him he would have 
to pay for the engine  to be fully stripped and investigated but that the car was likely to 
require a new engine  at a cost of £6,000.
The dealership made contact  with the manufacturer to see if it would make a contribution  to 
the fitting of a new engine. The dealership  said the manufacturer declined saying this was 
due to the cars age and no longer being in warranty.
Mr S complained to Santander about the quality of the car. Santander  didnt uphold  his 
complaint. It said that as Mr S had now had the car for over two years it would need 
independent evidence that there was an inherent  fault with the car that had been  present at 
the point of sale.
Mr S complained to this service. He also sent in a notice that had been  circulated by the 
manufacturer that said it recognised cars of the same model as Mr Ss may have an inherent  
fault with their coolant system and if this was found to be the case it would contribute  100% 
to any repairs. Mr S said he believed this related to the problems with his car.
However, the dealership said that the fault with his engine was actually due to a cracked 
piston and that there was no coolant  leak. The dealership sent its view to the manufacturer 
who said that it wouldnt be able to assist Mr S with getting the car repaired.
Santander said that it appeared Mr S had missed having the car serviced in 2017  and that 
this lack of maintenance may have  contributed  to the fault. It said a piston could crack due to 
a lack of lubrication  and that a service  would have identified if oil levels were low.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.  She said that under 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 a car should  be of satisfactory quality when its supplied. 
Satisfactory quality included durability and when considering  whether  or not the car was of 
satisfactory quality the age, mileage,  condition  and price paid are factors  to consider. Our 
investigator said she didnt think a reasonable person would expect a car of this age and 
mileage to require  a new engine.
Our investigator said that although the service stamp was missing  Mr S had explained the 
car had been  properly  serviced at a local garage  that had since  closed.  Mr S was now 
unable to provide  proof it had taken place  but she thought it was more  likely than not the car 
had been properly maintained. Our investigator said a lack of oil wasnt  raised by the 
Ref: DRN03646122dealership when it had investigated the cracked  piston.  She said there  were  other  reasons  
for this type of fault than lack of lubrication in the engine.
Our investigator said she thought it would be fair for Mr S to be able to now reject  the car 
and for the agreement  to be cancelled. She said that although under the Consumer Rights  
Act 2015 (CRA 2015) the business did have the right to repair the car, due to the length of 
time that passed  since the car had broken down and been  unusable  this was no longer a 
reasonable option.
Our investigator also said that Santander should reimburse any payments  made  under the 
agreement by Mr S from March 2018 to date as hed been unable to use the car since it had 
broken down. And that £450  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
S should also be paid.
Our investigator said that if the dealership was going  to charge storage costs  for the car (it 
hadnt to date but had raised these  as a possibility to Mr S) then Santander should cover  
these.
Santander agreed that the monthly payments, compensation and storage costs  would  be fair 
but disagreed  that the car should  be rejected. It said that it should have the opportunity to 
repair.
Mr S said he wanted to reject the car as it was unfair for him to have to wait any longer for 
repairs to be carried out, that he had no faith in the car any longer and he was concerned  
that he would struggle  to resell it. He said if the car was to be repaired he wanted 
reassurance that it would  be roadworthy and had passed its MOT  due to the length  of time 
that it had now not been  used.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the fixed sum loan, in this case is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander 
is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN03646123Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have some sympathy with the arguments  put forward by Santander, but after due 
deliberation I have  concluded this complaint should  be upheld. I will explain why. 
Mr S originally believed that the fault with the car was due to its coolant system.  There  had 
been some  publicity about this particular engine having this fault and the manufacturer  had 
agreed to cover the costs of any repairs that were required  because of this.
However, looking at the evidence  Im satisfied that the engines  fault is due to a cracked 
piston and not the coolant system. I can understand why Mr S is concerned about the car 
and has lost confidence with it as there appears to have been  discussion in the media about 
this particular engine.  But that wouldnt be a reason for his now rejecting the car.
Santander says the fault with the engine may be due to the car not being properly serviced. 
It says there is no evidence this was undertaken either by a stamp in the service book or an 
invoice. Mr S says a relative took the car to a local garage while he was away  for work  and it 
didnt provide the stamp. He is unable to go back and ask for the paperwork as the garage is 
now closed. I think Mr S has given a plausible explanation for the lack of proof,  I dont think 
its unusual that service book isnt stamped  or that small  businesses can close. I have 
checked the cars online history and see that it passed a MOT on 22 February having done 
27,065 miles. Interestingly the government website says the car has an outstanding recall 
since 19 January 2020.  
I also havent seen  any evidence as to the cause of the piston cracking. The Job Card 
provided by Santander of the dealerships inspection of the car makes no mention about low 
levels of oil or of warning lights being illuminated.  Mr S says the car broke  down without any 
warning and nothing  illuminated on the dashboard to advise him that there was an issue.  He 
also says he regularly  checked the oil levels.
So I cant reasonably  say that Mr S contributed or caused the engine  fault.  And when looking 
at satisfactory quality I think  a reasonable person wouldnt expect a five year old car with a 
mileage around 33,000,  which  I am satisfied was regularly  serviced  to require a new engine.  
The car should have been durable  as set out in consumer law. So I dont think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
I accept that under CRA  2015 the retailer has an opportunity to repair the car and if this fails 
the consumer  has the right to reject. I have taken due note of CRA 2015, but I also have to 
consider my remit is to reach a decision which I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
As such I think  it is fair I take into account the fact that the car has not been useable  since  
March 2018 and has been sitting at the dealership since that date. I think  its possible it will 
require other  repairs  than the new engine  to make it roadworthy. This means any repairs  will 
take time and prolong the time Mr S is without  the car. Ive also seen that the agreement is 
due to end in March 2019 so in reality  Mr S will probably get the car back  shortly  before the 
agreement expires. I understand Mr S may have got a replacement car which  is not 
unreasonable given the time that has passed since his car broke down and I dont consider it 
fair that he take the car back.
Ref: DRN03646124I appreciate that Santander subsequently  accepted  most of the original recommendations 
made by our adjudicator, but wanted the car to be repaired and returned to Mr S. However, 
Im aware that its possible  the cost of any repairs will now exceed the value of the car and 
so it may not make economic sense to fix it.
I think its fair for Mr S to be allowed to reject the car and for the agreement to be cancelled  
with nothing further to pay. The car is to be collected  at no cost to Mr S and any storage 
fees, if applicable, are to be met by Santander. 
As Mr S hasnt  use of the car since March 2018 I think it fair that he be reimbursed any 
payments he made under  the agreement since March 2018  together  with interest. Santander 
must also pay him £450 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused by having 
to deal with the faulty car. I note Mr S cancelled his insurance a few months  after the car 
broke down  and ceased paying road tax in July 2018 and I consider the costs of those  after 
March 2018 are covered in the £450.  Finally any adverse  information  about this agreement  
should be removed  from Mr Ss credit file as Mr S should not suffer any disadvantage  as a 
result of the problems with the car.
So for the reasons given above,  Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision  Consumer (UK) Plc
As set out above Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. Im asking Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr S
Cover any storage costs if requested by the dealership
Reimburse Mr S any payments made under the agreement since  March 2018 with 
interest at the yearly  rate of 8% simple  from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. 
Pay Mr S £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Ensure no adverse information is recorded on Mr Ss credit  file about this agreement 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
*If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr S how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr S tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN0364612