K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that U K Insurance (UKI)  unreasonably refused her claim for medical  
expenses under her travel  policy.
References to UKI include all its agents.
background
Mrs S held an annual  travel policy with UKI to provide  her with cover  when  she visited the 
USA for several months a year when she visited family. 
During her trip over the winter of 2017/2018, Mrs S was seen in the ER department on 24 
January 2018.  She was then admitted as in-patient from 26 January  to 29 January 2018.  
Later she was re-admitted  from 23 February 2018 to 28 February 2018. She then made  a full 
recovery and returned to the UK. The USA hospital said she was suffering an exacerbation 
of COPD plus bronchitis,  given a viral infection.
She made a claim to UKI to cover these medical  expenses. UKI said her GP in the UK said 
she had been  diagnosed  with asthma in 2004,  which it said she hadnt disclosed to UKI. 
Therefore, it believed two conditions  were  linked and consequently  her claim should be 
declined.
Mrs S disagreed and brought her complaint to us. The investigator  didnt think  Mrs S had 
been asked clear questions in the call recording of 2017, so she thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  UKI disagreed. The investigator subsequently saw in the call recordings 
that UKI had always known about  her asthma  but she didnt agree this was related  to any 
exacerbation of COPD. She therefore  remained of the view Mrs S complaint should be 
upheld.
UKI disagreed and so Mrs Ss complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Its clear in the call recording of October  2017 that during the medical screening UKIs  
adviser did ask Mrs S if she had been prescribed any medication. Then he simply didnt ask 
her any questions about which medications  she had been prescribed. Which  does  point to 
the fact, as the investigator made, that Mrs S wasnt given any opportunity  to discuss  her 
asthma or indeed lack of it in this call. Therefore, I agree here UKI didnt give Mrs S any 
chance to talk about her asthma.  
It seems  possible given  the NHS website explains at some  length the difference  between  
asthma and COPD,  that the two arent  as connected as UKI believes, so I also agree with 
the investigator that theres potentially a lack of medical evidence in Mrs S case  correlating 
the two conditions, as UKI or its medical assistance teams appears to have done.  
Notwithstanding this, since UKI does believe theyre connected, I shall deal with UKIs  
contention that it refused Mrs S claim due to the lack of asthma being covered, below. 
Ref: DRN01401682Having reviewed the USA medical  evidence, I think there was possibly  an assumption of 
COPD being  previously  diagnosed in the UK by the USA doctors, but that doesn't appear to 
be the case in reality as theres no mention of Mrs S ever been diagnosed with COPD  
before, given the contents of her GPs  report.  Certainly, within the USA medical evidence, 
there does  appear  to be medical signs of COPD (rather than asthma) following the severe 
infection Mrs S suffered.  That, possibly in my view, points to COPD  only being diagnosed  
then for the first time, and therefore her presentation then was not an exacerbation of it but a 
first sign of it. But UKI never clarified any of this medical evidence in any event. And it ought 
to have done so. 
However, theres further reasons  too, as to why UKIs decision to refuse  to pay Mrs S claim 
is unreasonable.
Starting on the first call recording in October 2015  where Mrs S was renewing  this policy, 
she confirmed her asthma was diagnosed well before she was aged 50. This is further 
corroborated in the medical notes of the USA hospital, as those notes clearly  state  Mrs S 
was first diagnosed with asthma in her teens, specifically aged 14. So I consider  UKIs 
medical assistance team simply jumped to the wrong conclusion  given the UKs  GP report 
and the specific  questions UKI asked Mrs S GP on that form. Had the medical assistance 
team read the USAs medical reports thoroughly they would have seen, like I did, that Mrs S 
always confirmed her asthma was first diagnosed  in her teens. A fact Mrs S also made 
clearly to UKI in her appeal of its decision to refuse to pay her claim.
During this questioning from UKIs  adviser in the call of Oct 2015, Mrs S confirmed she had 
not been prescribed any asthma  medications  for some time. The adviser  clearly  goes on to 
clarify with Mrs S that shes been prescribed no asthma medication in the previous  12 
months, which Mrs S then reconfirms  firmly.  Then it was the adviser  (and certainly not Mrs 
S), who unilaterally decided asthma was to be removed from Mrs Ss policy  as a notified or 
possibly an excluded illness  (its not actually that clear which) based  on this lack of any 
prescribed medications for asthma in the previous 12 months. 
Mrs S never asked for this or appeared to set out to obtain this. Therefore, this cannot be, as 
UKI believes, non-disclosure  of a pre-existing condition. First, asthma was clearly previously 
disclosed and I believe covered, and obviously then paid for by Mrs S in an increased 
premium. And secondly, it was the UKIs adviser  who removed it, not Mrs S. It seems  to me 
the adviser would  not have removed it except for UKIs underwriting  criteria at the time, 
which in turn has to mean its a covered condition [my emphasis] due to the advisers  
removal and the reasons  she gave for removing  it. The adviser in this call recording was 
clear asthma would be covered going forward. That in turn means  its not an undisclosed 
medical condition,  and has never been  such, as UKI have now deemed it to be.
Mrs S never decided she no longer wanted  cover  for asthma.  The removal  of asthma was 
solely decided and carried out by the UKI adviser on the basis  of the answers Mrs S gave on 
the medical screening, Mrs S frankly had little to do with that decision at all. Therefore its 
simply incorrect for UKI to conclude asthma  was never disclosed my Mrs S.
Next UKI asked Mrs S UK GP some questions given her claim, in the usual method of claim 
verification. But I think  UKI has read its own questions incorrectly.  The form first asks the 
GP:
Has the patient  ever [my emphasis] been  diagnosed with the above [previous 
respiratory complaints]  or any related condition?
Ref: DRN01401683The GP answers yes and then details asthma 2004 and then lists salbutamol inhaler, 
fostair inhaler and montflicast 10mgs,  although  the precise spelling of these drugs might be 
different as the GPs  handwriting is slightly difficult to read.
The next question  asks the GP: 
Please list all diagnoses (medical and/or surgical) as well as all meds  prescribed.
However, the GP lists none of the asthma  medications nor indeed  lists it as a present 
condition. This shows me at the time the GP completed this report, Mrs S wasnt  being 
prescribed any medications for asthma  and wasnt suffering from asthma as otherwise the 
GP would have re-listed those medications  here along with the condition of asthma. That in 
turn supports what  UKIs  adviser decided in the 2015 call recording, namely that asthma  
wasnt a condition that was troubling  Mrs S and hadnt been such  a condition for some  time, 
hence that adviser removing asthma  as she did. 
Here UKI wrongly believed that because Mrs S GP listed  asthma as being  diagnosed in 
2004 it was a current condition, but thats  not what the question  says. It clearly asks whether 
Mrs S was ever been diagnosed. Its not asking if she is presently diagnosed and suffering 
from. This is very clear  to me as the GP didnt list it as a current  condition in the question  
which then asks about current conditions. 
In the 2016 call recording where  Mrs S again  renews her policy,   all cardiac related 
conditions were now excluded as UKI would not provide cover for them, Mrs S premium 
then amount decreased. Rhinitis was confirmed as being covered as no medication had 
been prescribed for that in the last 12 months and asthma  was confirmed as being the same, 
as in it was automatically  covered. This is very clear  on the call recording. This shows me 
consequently any issues relating to asthma  were  then covered again, as they were in 2015. 
So theres no reasonable basis  in my view for UKI to now say asthma was a pre-existing 
condition which wasnt covered, as it wasnt disclosed.
In the 2017 call, asthma wasnt mentioned at all, and I consider there was no reason for it be 
mentioned either, given  the contents of the 2016  call recording. But crucially the adviser  in 
this call, confirmed  with the exception  of cardiac conditions,  everything else is covered. And 
I think the adviser was right then, everything else except for cardiac conditions was covered 
for Mrs S, including any asthma  related conditions and indeed rhinitis  conditions.
So to conclude, I think its questionable that theres  sufficient medical evidence  to show any 
correlation between asthma and COPD as its clear from the USA medical notes Mrs S 
wasnt suffering an asthma illness then,  she was suffering potential  COPD and severe  
bronchitis from a viral infection.  
I also dont agree asthma or any issues from asthma arent covered by this policy  given the 
contents of the call recordings of 2015, 2016  and 2017. The adviser essentially readmitting 
asthma as a covered condition in 2015,  on the basis of UKIs own underwriting  criteria at that 
time, given  Mrs S had no prescribed  medications  for it in the previous 12 months.
Therefore its wholly wrong  UKI refused to pay Mrs S claim. So I consider it should now pay 
Mrs S claim subject  to remaining terms and conditions of the policy, adding interest of 8% 
simple per year if Mrs S has paid any of these medical expenses herself. 
Ref: DRN01401684my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs S claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of her policy.
If Mrs S has paid any of these medical  conditions herself, add interest  of 8% simple 
per year from the date she paid them to the date of its reimbursement.
*If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.  
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0140168