K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) originally  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided I dont  think the policy was mis-sold. I know  this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr and Mrs W.  But  I hope that my reasons below will be helpful in explaining why Ive 
come to this outcome.
With a sale from such  a long time ago it is of course difficult  to know what  happened at the 
time. I have to make my decision based on the balance  of probabilities - what  I think  is more  
likely to have happened. To do this I will be taking  into account what  both Mr and Mrs W and 
Nationwide have said - and also anything Nationwide can provide  from the time the PPI was 
sold. 
Nationwide have given  me a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  application.  I can see theres 
a separate section titled UNEMPLOYMENT, ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS PROTECTION. 
Below is the question  Do you want Mortgage  Payment Cover? with Yes  and No boxes. 
The Yes box has been ticked  on Mr and Mrs Ws application - and they have both signed 
the form in agreement with its contents. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs W have said about Nationwides  representative  
completing the application form for them  and accept  that the tick appears to be 
prepopulated. But I think that its likely this was completed as a result of a discussion 
between Mr and Mrs W and Nationwides representative. And in any event, this was an 
important financial commitment, so I think its likely they wouldve read the form before 
signing - and questioned it if its something they didnt want.   
Mr and Mrs W say they were told by Nationwide they had to have the PPI to get the 
mortgage. I accept  that (over 20 years on) this is how Mr and Mrs W might remember  the 
sale. And its possible that Nationwides representative may have said something to make  
Mr and Mrs W think they needed to take the policy. But theres  a difference between  
Nationwide encouraging them to consider taking out PPI to cover their repayments and them  
pressuring to do so.
I can see that their mortgage  offer refers  to PPI, but note it doesnt suggest anywhere that 
its a compulsory product.  And there is nothing else available to support  what  Mr and Mrs W 
are saying. 
Without some stronger evidence Nationwide said or did something to make Mr and Mrs W 
think they had to have the PPI and thats why they completed the application as they did, I 
cant fairly uphold  on this basis.
Ref: DRN02057312Overall, I think its more  likely Nationwide made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out at the time. 
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide recommended the PPI to them.  But Nationwide  says it 
wouldnt have done. And Ive not seen anything to show me clearly  that it did, in fact Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage offer sets out that no advice was given.  So I think  Nationwides probably 
right. Which  means  it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have to 
make sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  its likely  they chose to take out the PPI knowing the employee 
benefits they were  entitled to at the time - and it looks like they still wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong, paying  out on top of anything they would have received 
from their employers and for longer than they would have got their full rate of pay. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. Mr and Mrs W were taking on a large and long term 
financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping  up 
with the repayments could  have  been  serious for them. And I think  having the security that 
their repayments wouldve  been made if they were  unable to work  is likely to have been 
important to them. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put them  off 
taking out the cover  in 1995.  
I can see that in 2002  Mr and Mrs W took some  further borrowing on their mortgage. At this 
time they completed  a separate application to replace their existing  PPI policy.  This suggests  
to me that they saw some value in the cover at the time. I know  that Mr and Mrs W say they 
thought they had to take it as they had PPI with their original mortgage.  But as above,  
without stronger evidence  Nationwide said or did something to make  Mr and Mrs W think 
they had to have the PPI I cant fairly uphold on this basis.
In 2004 an amendment was made to their PPI policy. The circumstances around why this 
amendment was made are unclear and Nationwide  dont have a copy of the call recording  
which I dont find surprising or unusual considering how long ago it happened  and the fact 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. It may have been that as interest 
rates had increased fairly  significantly since 2002  the benefit  level set at the time wouldnt 
have covered their mortgage repayments and other  costs any more.  And I think  its unlikely 
that Nationwide could have made this change without permission to do so from Mr and 
Mrs W. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest to me that in 2002 and 2004 Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances had significantly changed  from when they took out their original policy.  So for 
the same  reasons as above, while I think its possible the information Nationwide  gave 
Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been - I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out/amending the cover.
Mr and Mrs W say that at no time they were told they could cancel the PPI policy or reduce 
the premium they were  paying. But I can see that at least  from 2005 they were being sent 
insurance renewal letters.  These  set out how they could  cancel  their policy  if they no longer 
wanted it. They also set out the amount mortgage  payment and the amount of cover they 
had. It was for Mr and Mrs W to review and amend their protection if they wanted  to. 
Ref: DRN02057313Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs W.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they should receive all the commission  and profit share  back 
because they werent  told that Nationwide would receive any commission. But Nationwide  
has done what the rules  it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs Ws particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Nationwide should do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling them about  the amount of commission and profit  share it 
got. But I dont  think there  is. I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Nationwide to do anything more.   
I can also see that Mrs W has told us about some periods of time she had off work due to ill 
health and that she didnt  claim  on the policy for these as she was receiving pay from her 
employer. This doesnt change  my decision that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But if Mrs W would 
like to make  a retrospective claim under the policy she should  contact  the policy insurer 
directly.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs W any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs W the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Ref: DRN02057314Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205731