K820x#14complaint
Mr J says that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Js complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr J or NatWest sent me any significantly new evidence  to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any significantly  new evidence,  Ive reached the same 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for the same  reasons and Im still satisfied that 
my conclusions about Mr Js eligibility for the PPI are correct.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject 
my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr J says National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Ref: DRN07021042Mr J took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. He paid a monthly amount for the policy  and it 
covered him for accident  and sickness only.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Js case. 
Ive currently not intending to uphold  Mr Js complaint because:
It seems that this policy was sold during a telephone call. No call recording is now available, 
so I dont know what, if anything  was discussed about the PPI. But Ive seen a copy of Mr Js 
signed mortgage application. It seems reasonable to assume that this document  was 
completed by the NatWest adviser during the telephone call and then sent to Mr J to sign.
In section 8 for PPI, the form states Do you want Mortgage Repayments Protector? In this 
section; Yes has been typed. Ive also noted that its been recorded No next to options  for 
other insurances including Buildings  Insurance and contents insurance. 
As Mr J has signed the form and I think that it presented the PPI as optional, I think that its 
more likely  than not that he agreed to take it out understanding that it was optional,  
particularly as it seems  he declined the options to take other insurances. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But 
it did still have to give Mr J good enough information so that he could decide if the PPI was 
right for him and if he wanted to take it out. 
I think  NatWest couldve  explained the cost of the policy  better than it did. But even if 
            it had, I think Mr J would still have bought it.
Its possible  NatWest  didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr J doesnt 
appear to have been  affected by any of those things. 
Ive noted that Mr Js representative has complained that due to working abroad Mr J wasnt 
eligible. But based on the evidence I dont agree with what theyve said. I say this because:
oMr J was solely applying for a UK residential mortgage  on a UK property.  On the 
mortgage application, section 6, there is a question that asks; How is this property to 
be used?  Its been  recorded  Main Home and Mr J has signed the application to 
confirm it was correct;
oMr Js current address  has been recorded as a UK address;
oHis employers address (Mr J was self-employed) has also been recorded  as a UK 
address;
oOn an invoice for 2003 that Mr J has provided as part of his evidence, his contact 
details have  been  recorded  as the UK address. Hes also given details of a UK bank 
account; and
oMr Js representative has said in an email dated 11 February 2019;  .he has 
advised he has always been in and out of the country for the past 30 years.. 
Ref: DRN07021043Although Mr J may have  been abroad for work at certain times due to the nature of 
his work,  I still think that its more likely than not that Mr J was eligible for the PPI and 
would have been able to make a claim  on the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Js comments, including what hes said about being 
self-employed. But this policy  only covered Mr J for accident and sickness cover, so in this particular 
case I dont think that Mr Js employment would have affected him making an accident or sickness 
claim and these points dont currently change my decision.
how NatWest handled Mr Js complaint
Ive also looked at how NatWest handled Mr Js complaint; in particular Mr J has expressed his 
dissatisfaction with having  to prove his identity on a number of occasions. Based on everything Ive 
seen, I dont  think  that NatWest acted unreasonably or caused any avoidable delays when trying to 
see evidence of who Mr J was when investigating his complaint about  the sale of the PPI and I dont 
award any compensation for this part of his complaint. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Js complaint.
If either Mr J or National Westminster Bank Plc have anything further to add, they should do so by 9 
June 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0702104