K822xcomplaint
Mr C says Cash on Go Limited (trading as Peachy.co.uk) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background 
This complaint is about 3 payday loans which Cash On Go provided to Mr C between 
February 2014 and April 2014.  Mr C complained the loans were not affordable or sustainable 
because he was becoming more indebted  and dependent on the next loan. He said the 
debts have affected his physical health.  So he concluded Cash  On Go had lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint saying  loan 3  which is still outstanding - 
had been made irresponsibly. Our adjudicator suggested the following redress to be 
calculated and paid by Cash On Go as follows:
You shouldnt have  given  Mr C loan 3.
If you have sold the outstanding debts  you should  buy these back  if you are able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If you are not able to buy the debts back then you should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A)You should  add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already  refunded.
B)You should  calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made  by
Mr C which  were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr C originally made  
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C)You should remove  all interest,  fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr C as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr C having made 
overpayments then you should refund these overpayments  with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to 
the date the complaint is settled. You should  then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D)If there is still an outstanding balance  then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans [and any principal 
written-off under a redress scheme]. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be 
paid to Mr C. However if there is still an outstanding balance  then you should  try to agree 
an affordable repayment  plan with Mr C.
E)You should  remove any adverse  information  you have recorded on Mr Cs credit  file in 
relation to loan 3. If you have sold any of the loans you should ask the debt purchaser to 
do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  You should give
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax youve deducted, if he asks for one.
Cash On Go agreed with our adjudicators  view.  It said Mr C had borrowed £350 and had 
paid £5.00 towards  loan 3. As loan 3 had already been sold on to a debt collection agency  
(DCA), Cash On Go confirmed it had asked the DCA to reduce the loan balance  to £345 
and to remove any adverse entries about  loan 3 from Mr Cs credit  file. 
Ref: DRN03644342Our adjudicator told Mr C that everything Cash On Go had done about  loan 3 was in line 
with our approach,  so the offer was sent to Mr C as a suggested way to settle this complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with the suggested settlement saying Cash  On Go should  never  have given 
loan 3 to him. He wants the unpaid balance to be written off, he wants a refund of the 
amount he has paid together with interest  and he wants  his credit file cleared.  The complaint 
was then passed to me to look at again.
None of the parties has commented on loans 1 and 2 being rejected. So in my decision, I 
only need to look at loan 3.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I dont need to decide here whether loan 3 was made irresponsibly and was later 
unsustainable for Mr C because our adjudicators view about those issues  has been 
accepted by Cash On Go. Cash  On Go agreed  it should not have made  loan 3 to Mr C and 
has offered a redress calculation - based on our adjudicators  view which  I have set out in 
detail in the background to this decision. I think Cash On Gos redress calculation  is in line 
with our approach.
The key issue then is whether Cash On Go has done enough to address the complaint 
because Mr C wants the unpaid balance of the outstanding loan written  off, he wants  a 
refund of the amount  he has paid together with interest and he wants  his credit file cleared. 
Cash On Go has accepted it should  not have lent loan 3 to Mr C. On receiving our 
adjudicators view, Cash On Go took steps  to contact the debt collector  to reduce the 
balance and to amend  Mr Cs credit  file. 
I have looked  at all the facts very carefully  but, in this case, I will not be asking Cash  On Go 
to write off the unpaid balance. I say this because Mr C has already had the full benefit of the 
loan amount. So it is fair that he should pay it back on terms which  he finds  acceptable in an 
affordable repayment  plan.  So I think Cash On Gos offer is a fair way to settle this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think Cash On Go Limited has suggested a fair way to settle 
this complaint so it should put things  right according  to the terms of the offer it has agreed to 
make. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0364434