K820x#14complaint
Mr L bought an Apple iPhone in October  2018 and he purchased AppleCare+, an extended 
warranty, at the same  time. This included  accidental damage cover  that was underwritten by 
American International Group UK Limited  (AIG). 
Mr Ls complaint mainly centres around  the service he has received  from Apple once his 
phone developed a fault and that Apple had recorded AIGs FCA registration number 
incorrectly on its website. But Mr L also complains that AIG didnt write to him to explain it 
was undergoing a restructure in late 2018.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt think AIG had done anything 
wrong. Mr L disagreed  with this, so the complaint has been passed to be to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  To be clear,  I am only looking at Mr Ls 
complaint about  AIG in this decision.  His complaints about other businesses are being  dealt  
with separately.  
Having done this, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why. 
When I look at a complaint I need to decide  if a business has done something wrong. And if 
something has gone wrong,  I will then go on to consider if the consumer  has lost out as a 
result of this.
Having carefully reviewed everything  Mr L and AIG have  given me, I cannot see that AIG 
has done anything  wrong. 
I appreciate Mr L was unhappy  that AIG didnt tell him personally that it was having  a 
restructure. It looks like the restructure was due to AIG preparing for the UK to leave the EU 
and it doesnt  look like this has directly affected  him in any way. Mr L hasnt tried to claim on 
accidently damage cover and AIG has confirmed that even if he had tried to make a claim 
during the restructure period, this wouldnt have impacted on that claim. 
I note that AIG has confirmed that its FCA registration number was incorrect  on Apples  
website, but this has now been  amended. But from the information Ive seen, I dont think 
there has been an error on AIGs  part or that this has caused Mr L any financial loss.
I know Mr L feels strongly and will be disappointed  by this outcome. Hes put time and effort 
into his complaint and Ive thought  carefully  about all the points hes raised. But for the 
reasons explained above, these points dont change  the outcome of my decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Ref: DRN00409872Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0040987