K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Valour Finance Limited  (trading as Savvy.co.uk) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Valour Finance provided to Mr H between  June 
2016 and July 2018. Mr Hs lending history  is as follows:
Loan one taken on 9 June 2016 for £650  to be repaid  in 12 monthly instalments of 
£108.33. This loan was repaid  early  after three  months.
Loan two taken on 22 September 2016  for £300  to be repaid in 12 monthly  instalments 
of £50. This loan was repaid early  after four months.
Loan three taken  on 11 April 2018  for £750  to be repaid in 12 monthly  instalments of 
£124.99. This loan was repaid  early  after two weeks.
Loan four taken  on 6 July 2018 for £750  to be repaid in 12 monthly  instalments of 
£124.99. From what I can see this loan had a balance outstanding when Mr H brought 
his complaint to us but hes continued to make his repayments since  then. 
The gap between  loans  two and three is significant and so the loans should be treated as 
two chains of borrowing.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan two 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Valour Finance disagreed and the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Valour Finance needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Valour Finance should fairly  and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN06403322the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Valour Finance was required to 
establish whether  Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Valour Finance asked  Mr H for his monthly income,  which he said was between  around 
£2,700 and £3,000.  Mr H said his monthly  outgoings ranged between  £2,400  and £2,500. 
Valour Finance discussed the applications with Mr H. I can see that Mr H told it that the 
purpose of loan one was for car repairs and to consolidate debts for other  short-term  loans. 
It saw that he had two other short-terms at the time. 
So, for loan one, given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at 
the time and his history with Valour Finance, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate to 
ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  There  
wasnt anything in the information  Mr H provided or the information Valour Finance shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  Mr H was 
saying. So I cant say it was wrong  to have approved loan one. 
I can see that Valour  Finance  conducted  detailed affordability checks for the rest of Mr Hs 
loans. But as our adjudicator  explained,  proportionate checks for loans two and three  would 
most likely have shown  there  was significant  evidence that Mr H was having problems 
managing his money:
He had several other active short-term loans when these loans were taken out (at least  
four for loan two and at least  six for loan three) and Valour Finance was, or should have 
been, reasonably  aware of these;
Valour Finance had declined  a further  loan six months before it approved loan three  
because of the extent of Mr Hs credit  activity and so this should have prompted further 
questions for loan three;
Ref: DRN06403323And so it was unlikely  Mr H would have been able to sustainably  repay  loans two and three  
and any subsequent loans. So Im upholding the complaint about loans two to four and 
Valour Finance should put things right.
putting things right  what Valour  Finance  needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans two to four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
if a balance of principal remains outstanding for loan four, then this refund should be 
offset against that and the remainder  paid to Mr H;
remove any negative information  about loans two to four from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Valour Finance to take off tax from this interest. Valour 
Finance must Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Hs complaint. Valour Finance 
Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0640332