K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (MPPI)  policy that 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) sold her in December 1994.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 1st May 2019, where I concluded that I was minded to not 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  
In summary,  I found:
Mrs B applied  for a store card in December 1994. At the same time a PPI policy was 
added. The policy  covered her against  accidents, sickness  and unemployment.
I concluded the PPI policy was more  likely  than not presented as optional to Mrs B. I 
could see from the sales documentation provided including  the application form that it 
was more likely put across as an optional requirement and Mrs B signed for it.
There may have been shortcomings in the way FICL sold the policy. But after careful  
consideration I could  not conclude that these possible shortcomings would have affected 
Mrs Bs decision to take the policy. 
I was unable to conclude that Mrs B would have necessarily declined the policy  if the 
information she had received would  have been any clearer.
Mrs B had a medical condition but I didnt think this would have  put her off from having 
the cover  as she said she hadnt taken time off work for it at that time.
I concluded that I was minded to not uphold her complaint and invited comments  on this 
from both parties.  
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have not provided  any new or additional information  for me to consider. FICL  
did not respond. Mrs B responded on 21st May 2019 and said that she had nothing further 
she could add other than she didnt tick the box on the application form and didnt know what 
PPI was.
I have looked  at what Mrs B has said again, and can see again on the application  form that 
PPI was presented  as optional and she signed the form to agree to have it. Without any 
further information, I can find no reason to depart from my conclusion given within the 
provisional decision. So I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do not uphold    
Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN02550892my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I do not make any award  
against Financial  Insurance  Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0255089