K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint is that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt accept responsibility for dealing  with a 
void under  his house, damage to his underground drainage and drive as part of an existing 
claim.  Mr  S thinks the problems were caused  by the same mains  water leak that caused 
subsidence to the property in 2015  and so should be dealt with as part of that claim.
background
In late 2015 Mr S home suffered  damage that was thought to be linked  to a leak in the water 
main under the road near his home. The escaping water is believed to have caused his 
home to subside.  A claim was made to AXA at the beginning of 2016, which it accepted.  The 
water main  was repaired, and AXA arranged for investigations into the damage  to be done.  
It was established  the property had been built on a former landfill  site and had a piled ring 
foundation. Based on information about  another  property  in the street,  it was believed the 
piles were approximately  20 metres  deep,  which was believed  to be the depth  of the landfill 
pit (a former quarry). 
Mr S provided a copy of the homebuyers survey hed had done before he bought the house 
in early 2015. It detailed  the driveway was very  rutted. The surveyor  recommended Mr S 
should ask a contractor to quote  for work  needed  before exchange of contracts. 
Site investigations were  conducted. It was confirmed  the house  was built on made ground, 
which means soil and other materials that was brought to the site from elsewhere. In the 
case of the left of the property it was found  to be at least  six metres  deep and at the front of 
the house made ground was at least 2.5 metres deep. The drains were inspected  and no 
significant defects  that would  have  allowed water to escape were found.
The assessment of the property concluded  there was rotation  of the two-storey left-hand  
projection. AXA was satisfied the piles supporting the house had moved  slightly, but wasnt 
entirely certain this was due to the escape  of water, especially  given the water leak had been 
downhill from the property. However,  it was thought the water main  leak could have 
saturated the ground at depth below the house, which  had allowed the base of the piles to 
move. It accepted  the claim.
The property was monitored for a period and it was established it was stable by the autumn 
of 2016. Superstructural repairs were completed by the end of 2017.
In 2018 Mr S contacted AXA again because hed noticed the patio at the rear of the house 
was moving away from the house,  the block driveway was dropping and there was a void 
under the house. Investigations were  done  and it was established the drains under and 
around the house were leaking. This was causing  voids to form in the underlying  ground.
Mr S commissioned a report  on the condition of his drains (produced in June 2018). It stated  
there were multiple defects throughout both the foul and rainwater systems. The largest 
problem was that the internal stack  pipe serving the first-floor bathrooms had detached 
under the house and all water and waste was discharging directly into the ground  under the 
house. There were also urgent repairs needed to both rainwater drainage runs,  which again 
were allowing water to discharge  directly  into the ground.
Ref: DRN07993922Initially AXA declined the claim as not something  covered by the policy. Mr S wasnt  happy 
with this conclusion  and AXA reassessed the evidence. It accepted the damage  to the drains  
under the accidental damage to services  section of the policy in July 2018.  A £200 excess 
applied to the claim. 
Mr S wasnt  happy the damage wasnt being  accepted as part of the 2016 subsidence claim. 
He believed the ground movement that had caused  the drainage problems was as a direct 
result of the water main leak, so it should all be the same claim. 
AXA then highlighted that the pre-purchase survey said there were problems with the 
support of the section of foul drainage that had subsequently become damaged due to 
movement of the ground beneath it. It suggested  the drainage system was poorly  designed. 
In addition, it said the pre-purchase survey had highlighted movement in the drive, so it 
wasnt something that would be covered by the policy as it was clearly  not related  to the later 
water main  or drainage escapes  of water. In relation to Mr S believing the drainage problem 
was due to the water  main escape;  AXA confirmed  the drainage survey done  at the time of 
the 2016 claim hadnt identified any significant  problems with the drains, so the subsequently 
identified problems were  not, in its opinion,  linked to the cause of the previous movement in 
the house. Whilst discussing the issue with AXA, Mr S had the worst of the damage to the 
drainage fixed.
Mr S remained unhappy  with AXAs position and complained.  AXA considered  the 
complaint, but didnt  change its conclusion about the damage and that it had to be a 
separate claim. However,  it paid Mr S £100  for the inconvenience  it initially rejecting the 
claim may have caused him. AXA also commented that Mr S might  want to arrange for the 
drainage system to be upgraded  as it was supported by unstable  ground and that made  it 
susceptible to damage.
In January 2019 Mr S provided  a civil engineering  report regarding the damage to his home. 
It confirmed the details of the drainage survey and detailed the drive appeared to have 
dropped relative  to the building, resulting in rucking of the brick sett drive and a step from the 
driveway into the garage.
The engineer thought  there was little doubt  the cause of the foundation movement in 
2015/2016 was the mains leak. This movement had been either  caused  by the opening up of 
voids resulting in loss of support to the pile foundations, or by causing collapse compression 
of some of the fill, resulting in dragdown  on the piles and possible movement  below pile toe 
level. The engineer said he could see no other  reasonable cause for movements significant  
enough to result in the apparent voids around the property.  
He also said he had been involved in the claim for a property slightly further downhill on the 
same street as Mr S home.  He confirmed that property  was still suffering ongoing movement 
more than a year after the water main had burst. Consequently,  the engineer considered  it 
was possible the drainage  under Mr S home  hadnt  been damaged  at the time of the mains 
leak but that ongoing movement (due to that leak) resulted in damage to the drains.  Once 
the drains started leaking, they would have provided a source  of water which  could have 
contributed to further collapse/compression of the made ground.
In relation to the drive,  the engineer said the effective step between it and the garage,  
suggested the ground had settled. He said this would be consistent with the movements  that 
occurred resulting from the mains leak. He commented that the pre-purchase  survey  
referred to the driveway being very rutted;  and that to his mind rutted would imply 
Ref: DRN07993923indentations from vehicle wheels, but not a step.  No doubt there was damage to the 
driveway pre-purchase, but had it been in its current condition, he said he would have 
expected the survey  to be much more specific about the damage.
The engineer said that he thought the mains  leak was the proximate cause of the 
subsidence to the left side of the site and the drive  damage, although  this could have been 
exacerbated by the water  leaking from the drains. He said the drain  damage was also likely  
linked to the mains  leak, because  of the ground  movement it had caused.  
AXA considered Mr S engineers report,  but it didnt change its mind  about the claim. It 
explained the movement the water leak had caused was to the base of the piles some 20 
metres below the property; it wouldnt also have caused surface  movement, which was what 
had caused the drainage problems. It also reiterated the damage to the drive  had started 
before the water  main leak and as such  was likely  due to the poor load bearing capacity of 
the fill beneath it.
Mr S remained unhappy  with AXAs position and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He was 
persuaded by the evidence that the damage to the drains was linked to the escape  of water 
from the water main.  As such,  he recommended the drainage issues be dealt with as part of 
the subsidence claim. He also recommended Mr S be reimbursed  for the cost of the 
engineers report.  
Mr S asked for clarity  that the investigator was recommending AXA accept full liability  for 
all remedial  works hed claimed for. Our investigator  confirmed that was the case and Mr S 
accepted his view.
AXA didnt accept  the investigators  findings  at all. It objected to the investigators statement 
that Mr S engineers  opinion held more merit than its engineers  opinion.  It highlighted its 
engineer had had the benefit  of dealing with the claim  from the start, whereas Mr S engineer 
had only visited the property on one occasion, hadnt undertaken any investigations and 
based his opinion on paperwork and what Mr S had told him. 
In addition, AXA highlighted  that it had made it clear from the outset that the ground below 
Mr S home was poor and susceptible to movement.  A type of movement that is not covered 
under the policy.  The 2016 claim was only accepted under the balance  of probabilities 
because the water main  leak couldnt  be ruled out as the cause of the movement. Monitoring 
had been undertaken  and the property was confirmed as being  stable  by the end of 2016. It 
was a year after this that Mr S raised the claim for new issues. Given  the poor condition  of 
the ground, AXA considered that was plenty of time for it to move  and settle  itself,  purely  due 
to its condition, and nothing to do with the previous episode  of subsidence. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision on 17 December 2020. I set out my conclusions  and reasons  for reaching them  in 
that document. Below is an excerpt.
Mr S has made various comments  about  how AXA has handled a claim made by a nearby 
property owner. Each claim  will be dealt with based on its individual  circumstances and the 
facts of the claim. As such, two claims can be dealt with differently, but that doesnt 
necessarily mean the insurer has done  anything wrong in either case. Given I dont have 
detail of the other claim, it is not the subject  of this complaint and it would be inappropriate 
Ref: DRN07993924for AXA to provide any such information,  I will not be commenting  on the other claim or 
making any comparison with it. I will base my decision on the facts  of the case before me.
As for Mr S concern that AXA hasnt attempted recovery  of its costs and his excess  from the 
water authority, I havent seen anything that indicates AXA has done anything  wrong  by not 
doing so. Making  a decision to pursue recovery through legal means involves costs. It is 
entirely an insurers commercial discretion whether  it pursues legal action for recovery  and 
this will only usually be done  when it thinks  it has the evidence to support its case. Given 
AXA is not entirely sure the movement to Mr S house was caused by the water main  leak, 
and it accepted the claim on the balance of probabilities, it wouldnt appear it has the 
evidence to support  recovery  action.
There is no dispute that the damage to the drains was caused by the ground beneath and 
around the property  moving. What is in dispute  is whether this ground movement was 
caused by the water  main leak or if it is simply because the property is built on made  ground  
that is susceptible  to movement without external influence. 
We have opinions from two engineers  and the outcome of this complaint will depend  on 
which I find more persuasive.  I have thoroughly read everything that has been  said about the 
cause of the ground movement.
AXAs opinion is that the ground  beneath  the property is prone to movement  because  of its 
nature. It is made ground on top of landfill. It wouldnt  be unusual for this type of site to 
suffer movement without  an external influence. This is supported  by the type of foundation 
that was used for the build  a very deep piled foundation would usually be used where the 
ground had little strength and couldnt  support  the weight of the property  if built with more  
traditional strip foundations. It says the property had stopped moving more than a year 
before the new damage was noticed, which is too long for it to be linked.
Mr S engineer has said the mains leak caused  movement and that ongoing movement  
caused the damage to the drains. This was then exacerbated  by the water escaping from the 
drains. This is again an entirely plausible explanation if the property was still moving. 
However, the evidence  AXA has provided shows the property had ceased to move a 
significant amount  of time before the problems with Mr S drains caused  visible  damage.  
Now that doesnt  preclude possibility that the mechanism his engineer has suggested 
caused the damage, but it does make it less likely. 
Given Mr S engineer has reached  his conclusions based on there being ongoing movement 
caused by the water  main leak, which doesnt  appear to be the case, I dont find his 
conclusions persuasive.  It follows that I find AXAs engineer more persuasive. As such, I am 
satisfied the drainage issues should be dealt with as a separate  claim, rather than as part of 
the subsidence claim.
I turn now to the damage to the drive at Mr S property. Again, his engineer has concluded 
the damage is due to the water main  leak and subsequent ongoing ground movement. I 
dont think there is any doubt that the drive  has dropped since Mr S bought the property, but 
the question is whether  that movement is due to the water main leak.   
The pre-purchase  survey noted damage to the drive and the surveyor thought  it sufficiently 
bad that it was recommended Mr S seek costs for remedying the damage; the implication 
being that there was the potential to renegotiate the purchase price. AXA believes the 
damage is due to the pre-purchase ground movement continuing, thereby making the 
Ref: DRN07993925damage worse. Having considered all the evidence and comment on this matter, I am 
persuaded that is the most likely  cause  of the additional damage to the drive. So, this 
damage is not covered under the terms of the insurance policy and cant be included in the 
subsidence claim. 
AXA accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr S didnt. Mr S made  significant  comment on 
the evidence I had relied on and my resultant conclusions. I have summarised the key points 
below:
When the pre-purchase survey  was done the drive wasnt  damaged to the extent that the 
garage couldnt be used, as is now the case.  He accepted there was some  evidence of 
movement, but thinks  that was due to the drive having been laid over 30 years  earlier. 
He believes the damage was very minor and didnt indicate any major issues  with its 
support. 
The water  main  is approximately  1m along the road and 3m from the front of his 
property. The water main is barely below  ground level. Water  flow was entirely just below 
surface level. So AXAs  position  that the movement it caused was at depth was wrong.  It 
had caused damage  at ground level and he had continued throughout to raise the drop 
in ground level and the sinking  of the drive.
AXA was wrong when it highlighted problems with the support  of the foul drainage (which 
had subsequently disconnected) had been reported in the pre-purchase  survey  it was 
not the foul drainage, but one of the pipes  from the downstairs sinks that had been 
commented on by the surveyor. 
The house was still moving after 2016  when AXA declared it stable because  the ground  
levels around the house, his neighbours homes and the road dropped.  
AXAs conclusion about the cause of damage  to the drains  reported  in 2018 is pure 
conjecture.
He questioned my finding AXAs experts report more persuasive than his expert, as only 
his expert had visited the property since the new damage had been reported.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, including Mr S 
further submissions,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr S has made comment about the leak and that the ground  movement it caused  was not at 
depth. Firstly,  I would say that when I consider  a complaint I will rely on expert  evidence.  
Whilst Mr S believes that AXA is wrong that the ground movement  the leak caused was at a 
depth below  the properties, that isnt what the experts concluded. If Mr S was right and the 
ground movement caused  was at or just below the surface, his house,  because it was built 
on a very deep  piled foundation, wouldnt have moved at all. In addition,  as his house  is 
uphill of where the water main broke, the flow of any water at surface  level would have been 
away from his home  and so unlikely to have caused  any damage to his garden and drive. 
Once the water hit the bottom  of the old quarry and less permeable materials,  it may have 
dispersed outward  toward the base  of the surrounding  piles, which is why AXA accepted  the 
claim for damage to Mr S home.
Ref: DRN07993926As has been explained previously, due to the fact that Mr S home  was built on top of an old 
quarry that had been used as a landfill site, the ground is likely to be subject to movement  
simply because of its nature, without  the need  for external factors. This is because the fill will 
not have been compacted  by anything other  than its own weight, which will continue  over 
time, and any organic  matter will rot and reduce in volume. This means there will be 
downward movement  of the ground  over time, which AXA has explained  is the cause of the 
ground level reduction Mr S has highlighted  to it and in his submissions in response  to my 
provisional decision. 
Mr S has also said the damage  to the drive when he bought it was very minor.  I am not 
persuaded that is the case, as if the damage  wasnt significant the surveyor wouldnt have  
highlighted it and suggested Mr S get quotes  for its repair before exchanging contracts. In 
addition, the fact that the damage is worse now than it was at the time Mr S bought it, 
doesnt mean that it was caused  by the water main  break. Firstly,  as I have said above, the 
flow of water  from the mains leak would have been  away from Mr S home and drive. 
Equally, the movement could simply be the continued consolidation of the ground that had 
occurred before 2014.
This is where I have  to rely on expert opinion. Whilst I have noted that Mr S has said his 
house has continued to move since  2016 when AXA deemed  it stable, I have  seen no expert 
evidence or monitoring  results that show this to be the case. Nor has Mr S reported  further  
damage to the structure of his home  the walls,  floor or roof  which would be expected if a 
property had continued to move. Mr S expert based his conclusions on an incorrect  premise  
and as such, I dont  find those conclusions  to be evidence it would be appropriate to place  
reliance on.  I remain satisfied that it is more appropriate for me to rely on AXAs expert 
when considering the likely cause of the new damage under and around Mr S home. 
I know this will disappoint Mr S, but my conclusions  remain  the same; that AXA wasnt  acting 
unreasonably or inappropriately  when  it decided to deal with the damage Mr S reported in 
2018 as a separate claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
22 February 2021.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0799392