K821x#15complaint
Mr D and Mrs C are unhappy  with their building warranty provider, Elite Insurance Company 
Limited (has ceased writing new business  but continues  to fulfil existing contracts of 
insurance). They have  noise issues with the flooring  in their home; Elite has refused to carry 
out repairs, saying  the problems are merely  snagging and so not covered by the policy.
background
Mr D and Mrs C reported noise problems  to Elite. It said the developer  should resolve them 
and gave it thirty days to do so. The work  wasnt done. Elite terminated the developers  
membership of its warranty scheme but told Mr D and Mrs C that it wouldnt carry out the 
repairs. It said the problem was a snagging  issue; it didnt affect the structural integrity of 
the property and so wasnt covered by the warranty.
Mr D and Mrs C complained to this service.  I issued a decision in which  I explained  that
I thought Elite, from the point the thirty days expired after repair  recommendations had 
been made, was carrying out a regulated activity. I said, therefore, that we could  consider  a 
complaint about  what had occurred during this time.  
I then considered Mr D and Mrs Cs complaint and I issued a provisional decision. I felt Elite 
should pay for work to be done to resolve the noise issue, as well as reimburse the cost Mr D 
and Mrs C had for an expert report and pay compensation. 
Both parties responded and further communication on the issue of the price of the work 
occurred. I made some further conclusions about what I thought Elite should pay. Elite 
continued to object to my findings but Mr D and Mrs C accepted them. My provisional findings, 
the parties responses and my review of those are all detailed below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
The policy  says cover applies to the reasonable cost of repairing or rectifying the 
damage caused by the developers failure to comply with requirements. The policy  
doesnt define what requirements means.  It does define damage, but damage in 
this section isnt emboldened so doesnt  fall to be defined by the policy. There  is nothing, 
outside of the policy definition for damage  (which doesnt apply here), that ties the cover 
to issues  of structural  integrity only. Nor is there any exclusion for snagging  (although  
that word  is subjective and open to interpretation).
Elite said the policy is a legal document which clearly sets out its terms. It said that damage 
is defined as, at a minimum, a material change in physical condition. And it uses definitions 
to ensure everyone is treated  fairly.  It said that upholding the complaint on a technicality in 
respect of whether  the policy wording was correctly formatted or not was unfair.
Elite went  on to say that it is reasonable to assume that as the definitions come first in the 
policy, every  use of a defined word after that point relates to the definition set out. And in any 
event, there  is a reference in the part of the policy in question to damage  which is in bold. 
Ref: DRN05888532I accept that damage as defined by the policy is as Elite has said. I also accept that there  is 
one reference  within the section of the policy in question to damage which  is in bold. 
However, there are also references that are not in bold.  
The policy does set out the definitions  first but also says that wherever these words appear  
in the policy  in bold, they will have the meaning  given by the definitions.  So I remain  satisfied 
that its reasonable to say that where bold isnt used the definitions dont apply. 
Elite may feel this is a technicality but Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable interpretation  of 
its policy has been applied in order to reach a conclusion on the complaint under 
consideration.
In my provisional decision I want on to say:
 
So if damage has been caused by the developers failure to comply with requirements 
then Elite has to cover the reasonable cost of repair. I think  its fair to say that damage can 
be said to have occurred if something cant be used or enjoyed  in the way intended or an 
items value  has been lost. I accept that Mr D and Mrs C cant  enjoy their home as they 
would have done if there hadnt been  the noise issues.  I think its also possible that the 
issue might  affect the value of the property. The fact that the home  hasnt been built in line 
with building regulations (which Ill come  on to below)  is likely,  I think, to affect its value. 
Overall I think its reasonable to conclude that damage has occurred.
As the word requirements  hasnt  been  defined I think its fair to say this can reasonably 
be said to refer to building regulations.  Building regulations have  to be complied with by 
developers so they are requirements of the development.
Elite has said the building regulations only apply to airborne  noises and the noise reported 
by Mr D and Mrs C is related to direct impact on the floor above. Mr D and Mrs C have 
provided a report from a sound  expert.  This refers directly to the requirements in relation 
to airborne noise. It concludes that the building regulations in this respect havent been 
complied with. Ive seen no expert opinion in response to this from Elite.
Im minded  to accept the experts conclusions at face value, meaning Im satisfied that 
the developer  failed  to comply  with requirements.  That, as a result,  damage has been 
caused (as explained above). Therefore, cover  applies  and Elite must pay the reasonable 
costs of rectifying this problem. I think it should also refund  the cost of the expert report  
Mr D and Mrs C obtained; £285, plus interest* from the date it was paid until settlement it 
made.
Elite said that installing  sound insulation is not a requirement under building regulations. 
It said it had tested the home at the time of completion and feels the results of these tests  
havent been considered.  Elite said that the report created by Mr D and Mrs Cs expert  is 
unreliable as its methodology was flawed   to reach reliable  conclusions it would have 
had to recreate  the house  in laboratory conditions.
I havent said that installing sound insulation  was a requirement of the building  
regulations. But it seems that in order for the home to meet building  regulations regarding 
sound transfer, insulation needs  to be installed. 
Ref: DRN05888533I did see the test results from the time of building completion but didnt find those  to be 
persuasive next to the detailed report Mr D and Mrs C provided. Not least as only two 
areas of the home were  tested and seemingly in respect of sound transfer through walls,  
not floors. Whilst Im aware that Elite doubts the report  Mr D and Mrs C have  provided  its 
concerns havent  been evidenced  by commentary  from a suitably qualified expert. So Ive 
no grounds on which to doubt the evidence Mr D and Mrs C presented,  or to make me 
think my provisional conclusions were unfair or unreasonable.      
In my provisional decision I said:
Whilst I know Mr D and Mrs C obtained  two quotes  for rectifying  the problem at their home 
these pre-dated the expert report.  Im not sure who determined that the work  set out in the 
quotes was suitable and necessary to rectify the problem at hand.  I see that the expert  who 
compiled the report said they could make  recommendations for rectifying the issues if 
asked to do so. Therefore, if Mr D and Mrs C would  like to obtain those recommendations 
and quotes from a suitable contractor  to carry out work in line with them, Ill likely make 
Elite pay them the related  costs. If I cant get detail in this respect  in response to my 
provisional decision then my award  will have to be that Elite pays the reasonable cost of 
this work  and the parties will have to resolve  what this means between them.
Having received an initial quote  from Mr D and Mrs C in response to my findings and this 
being shared with Elite, further correspondence  between myself and the parties  occurred. 
Having considered everything  both said I issued some further provisional findings.
In my further  provisional findings I said:
Mr D has sent three quotes  for work based  on the experts opinion  of what  needs doing to 
rectify the problem at his home.  Elite thinks these are overpriced.  It also says they refer to 
too many  rooms. One quote refers to work  in six rooms, the other two to seven rooms.  Elite 
thinks only four rooms need work.  Elite hasnt said though what  it thinks  a fair price  for the 
work would be  it says it would have to have a loss adjuster look at that. 
If Elite wants  to have a loss adjuster price  the work then it can do but it will need to do that 
quickly. Without that I have to advise both sides that I havent seen any evidence that gives  
me fair and reasonable grounds to doubt the prices  Mr D has been  quoted.  Three 
independent contractors have come up with similar pricing and that gives me good  cause to 
think the prices are most  likely  in the region of what Mr D will reasonably  need  to pay to have 
the work  done.  
But I think there may be an issue with the number of rooms in which  Mr D has asked for 
work to be done  in. Mr D provided a quote from A which listed the seven rooms to be 
worked on as the lounge,  snug, games  room  and all four bedrooms.  Im not convinced  the 
two bedrooms  at the top of the house require  work  to soundproof their ceilings.  No noise 
activity occurs above these. Im satisfied the other two bedrooms  as well as the three other 
rooms need work doing to them. I dont think its fair to put Mr D to the trouble of obtaining 
further quotes. Instead Ive looked at the estimated costs on a per room basis. 
The lowest  of the three  quotes, when looking at the cost on a per room basis, is the one 
provided by A. Id usually only expect an insurer to pay the lower of any quotes  received. 
Applying the A rates to five rooms (instead of seven), gives a price of £9,192.85 (as opposed 
to the £12,870 it quoted for seven rooms, which would be £11,031 for six rooms, against the 
other quote for six rooms which totalled  £12,520 plus VAT). 
Ref: DRN05888534Therefore.I intend to issue a final decision on this complaint which awards  Mr D £9,912.85 
to carry out work to the five affected ceilings in his property  that reasonably need to meet  
building regulations. The A quote doesnt  refer to VAT being applicable. If Mr D gets the 
work done and is charged VAT he can send  proof  of this to Elite and it will need  to reimburse 
the VAT but only up to the sum which applies to the figure of £9,192.85. My award  will still 
include reimbursement of the report fee plus compensation, as provisionally  stated.
Following my sending this to both parties,  Mr D and Mrs C said,  when considered against 
the evidence theyd provided,  they understood why Id suggested  this settlement. Elite,  whilst  
invited to respond to my thoughts in this respect  chose  not to. Instead Elite raised the 
objections Ive referred to above about  why it shouldnt be liable for the work  at all and 
reiterated that it didnt think the costs Mr D and Mrs C had asked  for, as set out in the quotes 
theyd provided, were reasonable.
Ive addressed Elites  responses on its liability above so I wont  go into those issues again. 
As Elite hasnt persuaded me it isnt liable for the work and hasnt raised  any argument to my 
findings set out here as to what I think a fair and reasonable settlement for that liability  is, 
I see no reason to change  my view on that. Therefore, Im going to require  Elite to pay Mr D 
and Mrs C £9,192.85  in settlement of their claim. If Mr D and Mrs C get the work done and 
are charged VAT they can send proof of this to Elite and it will need to reimburse the VAT 
but only up to the sum which applies to the figure  of £9,192.85.
In my provisional decision I also said:
I can see that this situation has frustrated Mr D and Mrs C. Im satisfied,  for the upset 
caused since Elite began carrying out regulated activity in September 2017, £150 is fair and 
reasonable compensation.
Neither party commented on or objected to my findings in this respect. I remain  satisfied that 
£150 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Elite Insurance  Company Limited (has ceased writing new 
business but continues to fulfil existing contracts  of insurance)  to:
pay Mr D and Mrs C £9,192.85 to settle  the cost of rectifying the noise  problem;
if Mr D and Mrs C get the work done,  are charged VAT for this and provide proof,  pay the 
VAT cost as applies  up to the value of the work Ive made it liable for here, £9,192.85.
reimburse the cost of Mr D and Mrs Cs expert  report of £285  plus interest* from 
28 June 2018  until settlement is made;
pay Mr D and Mrs C £150  compensation.
I dont make  any other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05888535*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Elite Insurance 
Company Limited (has ceased  writing new business but continues to fulfil existing contracts of insurance) considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr D and Mrs C, it should tell them how 
much its taken off. It should  also give Mr D and Mrs C a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0588853