K820x#14complaint
Ms B complained that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited  wrongly settled another drivers 
claim under her motor  insurance policy.
background
Ms B had a car accident which  she didnt think was her fault. But Calpe found her liable for 
the accident, and settled  the other drivers  claim as well as her own claim. She was unhappy 
that they asked  her to pay her policy excess of about £2,600.  She felt that Calpe hadnt 
investigated liability or assessed the claim costs properly. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that had 
acted fairly  in deciding liability  and assessing  the excess payable. Ms B didnt agree and so 
Ive been asked to decide.
my findings
As the investigator  explained to Ms B, we dont decide who was responsible  for an accident, 
as this is a matter for the courts. Instead we look at the evidence  and arguments  to 
determine whether  Calpe considered all of the information, and acted fairly, reasonably, and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when making their decision on liability.
Ive looked at Ms Bs policy and it says on page  27 that:
"The Underwriters can conduct the defence, admit negligence for any accident or claim on
Your behalf. The Underwriters will also exchange information with other  parties involved with 
the incident or claim and to settle any claim or part of the claim without reference  to the
Insured Person...You will be liable to pay/repay your Excess  Amount on the basis of
such settlement notwithstanding that You may not agree with the level of third
party damage or injury  which has been  incurred, claimed and paid for.
This is a common term in car insurance polices and it allows  Calpe to decide  liability  as they 
see fit, whether Ms B agrees with them or not.
The other drivers insurer reported the accident to Calpe. The other driver said that Ms B 
caused the accident, admitted liability at the scene and arranged to pay for the damage to 
the other drivers car without involving insurers, but then changed her mind. Ms Bs account  
was that the other driver caused the accident, admitted liability and offered  to pay for Ms Bs 
car damage.  But Ms B became  unhappy with the process for this and decided  to get her car 
fixed herself. 
However the other drivers insurer provided a series of text messages  between Ms B and the 
other driver.  They felt that the text messages showed that Ms B was arranging  to meet the 
other driver at a garage, to arrange  for repairs to the other drivers car. And that this 
suggested that Ms B had been  at fault,  and had offered to pay for the other drivers repairs.  
Calpe felt that these text messages meant that theyd  have no reasonable prospect of 
success if the case went to court and that Ms B hadnt shown them  any definitive evidence  
to support her account of events. So they settled the other drivers claim on a without 
prejudice basis, which meant that Ms B can still start court proceedings if she wishes.  
Overall, I think that on the evidence  available to them it wasnt unreasonable for Calpe to 
decide as they did.
Ref: DRN05548342Ms B was also unhappy with the amount of policy excess Calpe wanted her to pay. Her 
policy is one with a £3,000 excess,  and so this means that she has to pay Calpe the claim 
costs up to that amount, less the costs of her own claim. Thats  what she agreed  to pay 
when she took out the policy with Calpe. This, as her policy says, applies even if the 
accident is not your fault.  It is normal in motor  insurance policies for the excess to be 
payable on any claim, regardless  of who is at fault.
.
Calpe paid for Ms Bs cars repairs. And as regards the other drivers claim costs,  I can see 
that Calpe  checked those,  which included  repair  costs  and car hire during repair, before 
paying them  and found them to be reasonable. So Im satisfied that they acted fairly and in 
line with the terms  of her policy there too. Ms B says that there were some  delays in her 
responding to Calpe due to her personal circumstances at the time, but she explained that to 
Calpe. I can see that it must  be difficult to deal with an accident claim during difficult 
personal times, but I think that Calpe acknowledged  that and allowed her time to respond to 
them. However ultimately they were still obliged to deal with the claim against her policy and 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that they were unfair  or unreasonable in doing so, and so I dont 
ask them  to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0554834