K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to 
settle a third party claim against Mrs Ss car insurance policy. Mr S was a named driver. 
background
Admiral received a claim from a third party about  an alleged incident involving  Mrs Ss car in 
June 2015.
Mr and Mrs S said no incident happened. In January 2017 Admiral wrote  to Mrs S and said it 
had sufficient information to prove she wasnt involved in the incident.  It said it had removed 
the claim from her policy. 
However, in August 2017 Mr S received  a letter from solicitors  acting  on behalf of Admiral. 
The third partys insurer had issued court proceedings to recover  their claim costs.  
Admiral initially told Mrs S it wasnt aware  of court proceedings  as it had closed  its file in 
January 2017.  But it then wrote to Mrs S to confirm that it now had two options:  to defend the 
case in court, or concede by dealing with the third partys claim. A few days later it wrote to 
Mrs S again  and said it had decided to settle the third partys claim.
Mrs S complained to Admiral in August 2017. She asked us to look at things for her and 
Mr S in April 2018. Although shed received replies from Admiral, Mrs S hadnt received a 
reply to her complaint.
In May 2018  Admiral  apologised to Mrs S. It said that although its decision was correct to 
settle the third partys  claim, it had handled the claim and her complaint very poorly. And it 
said it shouldve settled  the claim on a without prejudice basis. Admiral paid Mrs S £300 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  its poor service caused  her. 
Mrs S remained unhappy.  Our investigator thought Admiral had reached its decision 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She doesnt  feel Admiral has shown that it weighed up the evidence   or 
that it had sufficient evidence  to reach  the decision it did. So Mr and Mrs S would like an 
ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But 
we can look at whether  an insurer properly investigated a claim and reached its decision 
reasonably  and in line with the policy.
Mrs Ss policy with Admiral says it can take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This 
means that Admiral might make a decision that Mrs S doesnt  agree with, but the policy  
allows Admiral to do this. 
Ref: DRN08654462Admiral instructed an engineer to inspect Mrs Ss car. In July 2015 the engineer  reported 
that there  was damage in the area consistent with the other drivers description of the 
incident. Mrs S asked why Admiral  didnt give her the outcome of the engineers report  at the 
time  if it supported  the other drivers claim.  But I can understand why Admiral  didnt do 
anything with this information at the time. At this stage it hadnt received any claim for costs 
from the other driver.  And as it was for the other  driver to prove their claim,  Admiral wouldnt 
actively chase the third party insurer.
However, when it received a claim for the recovery of costs from the other drivers 
representatives in May 2017, Admiral needed  to reconsider the information it had - and 
decide whether  it was enough to say it had a good chance of defending  the claim in court.  
Admiral decided it didnt.  So Admiral made the decision to settle the other drivers claim. 
But  it didnt settle the claim on a without prejudice  basis.  This means Admiral has 
prejudiced Mr and Mrs Ss right to make a separate claim against the other  driver  directly. 
Admiral accepts this decision wasnt correct. And when Admiral closed its file in January 
2017, it told Mrs S that it had enough proof to show no involvement in the incident.  But it 
shouldve told Mrs S that if it received a claim for costs from the other drivers representative, 
it would  need  to reopen the claim. 
Admiral says it considered the information  Mr S gave when it discussed the incident with him 
in December 2015  and Mrs Ss account by email in January 2016. Because Mr S denied 
an incident took place  but confirmed he was at the scene  Admiral thought a Judge would 
most likely decide Mr S was liable.
Ive listened to the key call between  Admiral and Mr S. Mr S described  the other drivers car. 
Mr S said their cars passed each other on a very narrow road. Mr S said that he practically  
stopped. He said the other driver drove  toward  his car. Mr S said that he didnt feel any 
impact. However, he also said that he stopped and checked his mirror to see if the other 
driver stopped to exchange details after they passed  each other. Because the other driver 
didnt stop, Mr S assumed no collision  had taken place.  
Mrs S provided a statement to Admiral.  She said that Mr S was stationary in order  to allow  
other cars to pass. So if a collision  took place,  it wasnt  caused by their stationary vehicle. 
And as the other driver didnt stop to exchange  details, they believe no incident took place. I 
understand Mrs S wasnt in the car when the incident the other driver claimed for took place.
Mrs S says that Admiral  hasnt shown that there was any new evidence which caused it to 
change its decision when  it received the other  drivers claim in May 2017. The only evidence 
it appears to be relying on is that the other driver had named Mr S. Mrs S says the other 
driver couldve  obtained Mr Ss details  from the DVLA website as the registered keeper of 
the car. Mr and Mrs S are upset that Admiral has made the assumption  that Mr S must have 
exchanged details with the other  driver at the scene and this is how they obtained  Mr Ss 
name and address.
In its letter  dated  23 October 2017  to Mr and Mrs S, Admiral wrote:
We understand your point that this (Mr Ss details)  could have been gained  at any 
time but you have admitted to being at the scene of an accident and it would be very 
difficult for the third party driver to obtain your name in any other way other than you 
providing it yourself. The Judge would question why you exchanged details if you 
didnt believe you were  involved in an accident.
Ref: DRN08654463We asked Admiral to provide details of what they relied on to make this assumption. It 
replied:
We have no evidence  that supports that details were exchanged  at the scene. Mr S 
says that the third party drove off, and the third party  did not attest  to have  this 
evidence either.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  of Admiral to make the assumption  it did without any 
evidence to suggest details had been exchanged. And I can understand why Mr and Mrs S 
are upset by Admirals comment here. 
However, based on the contact Admiral had with Mr S along with the engineers reported 
damage to their car - which was consistent with the incident circumstances - I think  Admiral 
reached its decision to settle  the other  drivers claim in a fair and reasonable way. There  was 
no independent evidence such as CCTV, dash cam footage, or independent witnesses. 
Admiral had to weigh up the information available and decide  whether its chances of 
successfully defending the claim in court were reasonably high. It was one drivers word 
against the other. The other driver said that their car was stationary and Mr S collided with 
their vehicle. Even though Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, Admiral was entitled to take a view 
that it was better to settle a claim rather than risk significant costs of proceeding to court  if it 
didnt think it was likely to succeed in defending the claim. 
Although Mrs S complained to Admiral  in August 2017, it wasnt  until she contacted us in 
April 2018 that Admiral acknowledged her complaint. In May 2018 it replied. 
For the way it handled  the claim and complaint, Admiral apologised and paid Mrs S £300  
compensation. I think Admirals service  to Mrs S was poor.  I think its apology and 
compensation is a fair outcome to put things right. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed. But I think Admiral reached its decision  to 
settle the claim as a fault claim reasonably based on the information available to it. So I dont  
think Admiral needs  to do any more. 
Ref: DRN08654464my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0865446