K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) unfairly declined a claim 
under their property insurance policy. 
background
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs D say they gave Mrs Ds engagement  ring to their friend, who 
was in the jewellery, to do some repairs. Their friend told them  that the ring was not 18 carat  
gold with a diamond as they thought it to be but was instead was a gold plated  silver ring 
with a cubic zirconia stone. 
Mrs D has had the ring for nearly 50 years. In that time the ring has been either valued or 
repaired five times. Each time  until it was looked at more  recently   the ring has been  
broadly speaking described  in a similar way  a gold ring with a diamond.  Mr and Mrs D 
have also told us that Mrs D has rarely  taken  the ring off over the years with the only 
extended periods  being  when she underwent surgery  and during her recovery.
Mr and Mrs D acknowledge that this is a very unusual set of circumstances. But they think 
the most  likely explanation is that at some  point over the years the ring must have been 
switched; either accidentally or on purpose.  
Over the years Mr and Mrs D have always insured the ring. CIS provided cover  between 
1996 and 2015. Ive assumed that Mr and Mrs D think the switch took place during the 
period CIS provided their cover, hence  the claim. 
CIS declined  the claim because it thinks the loss was the result  of a theft by deception,  and 
the policy excludes claims of this kind.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds complaint but didnt uphold  it. She thought 
the claim wasnt covered  under the policy. Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the outcome 
because theyd never said the switching  of the ring was theft, but they dont know how Mrs D 
has ended  up with the other ring. They think CIS should pay for the loss regardless. 
As Mr and Mrs D remain unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Undoubtedly this has been  a distressing  situation for Mr and Mrs D; I can only imagine how 
they must  have felt finding out that the ring isnt what they thought  it was.  
This has been a difficult decision to make because no one knows  how or when the event 
took place. All we know now is that the ring Mrs D thought she had is no longer in her 
possession. But the ultimate question I need to consider here is whether CIS unfairly 
declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim.  
Ref: DRN00465932Most property insurance policies cover specified things that could go wrong  like a storm 
causing damage or a theft from the home. An insurance policy sets out whats covered and 
what isnt.
In this case no-one knows what happened to the ring. It may have been  stolen  and replaced  
or switched  in error. Its even possible that it was never as originally sold  though this 
seems very unlikely given  the valuations over the years.
We also dont know when  the loss  if there was one  occurred. This is important because 
an insurer needs to know if it was liable at the time the event took place.
The insurer  and our investigator have settled on the most likely scenario as they saw it  that 
the loss occurred as a result of a deception.  This is generally not covered by insurers. But 
this also creates a problem. Because no-one  knows when the loss occurred, its not possible 
to know what policy document applies  or indeed which insurer is responsible.
So there are a number  of problems; we dont know that an insured event occurred or when it 
happened. And because  of this we dont know what policy applied  and if the terms of the 
policy covered the event.
Im afraid that this leads me to the conclusion  that I cant  hold CIS responsible  for the claim.
I do appreciate that this is not the answer  Mr and Mrs D were hoping for. But Im afraid  that 
without greater clarity about the nature of the loss, its not possible to determine if Mr and 
Mrs D have a valid claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046593