K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Trusted Cash Limited, trading  as Trusted  Quid, (TQ), gave him a loan
that was unaffordable.
background
Mr C was given a loan of £350 by TQ on 23 May 2018 to be repaid by six monthly
instalments. TQ said that the highest instalment amounted to £167.53. Mr C said that he was
in financial trouble. He had 18 payday  loans and took repeated borrowing from each lender.
Mr C hasnt repaid the loan. In October  2018  he entered into a debt management plan to
repay the loan.
TQ said that its credit checks showed that Mr C had no county court  judgements, no
insolvency details, no defaults  within the previous six months, nor any debt management
plans. This information  along with other aspects of Mr Cs credit file allowed it to make a
decision to offer the loan in principle, subject  to its internal manual underwriting process.
This included asking Mr C for details  of his income  and expenditure. It had then completed
an income and expenditure analysis. TQ had calculated Mr Cs disposable income  to be
£651. It said that its checks were reasonable and proportionate given the value of the loan.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He said that TQs
checks were sufficient.  By asking detailed  questions about Mr Cs monthly  expenditure, the
adjudicator said that TQ was able to identify  whether  the monthly loan repayments were
affordable for him.
Mr C disagreed and responded to say that his other 18 payday loans should  have  indicated
financial difficulty. He also said that other lenders had agreed to refund interest and charges
on their loans.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to TQ on 16 April 2019. I summarise my findings:
I noted that Mr C had referred to other lenders  agreeing to refund interest and charges on
their loans. I explained that we assess each case on its own merits. And it wasnt  always 
appropriate to compare the outcomes of complaints  without a detailed understanding of the 
specific facts of each  complaint.
I noted that TQ was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make checks  to make sure 
Mr C could afford to repay the loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr C was borrowing, the length of the agreement  
and his lending  history. But there was no set list of checks  TQ had to do.
I noted that this was Mr Cs first loan with TQ. TQ had said that before lending  to Mr C, it had
carried out a credit check and asked him about  his monthly income  and expenditure. It said
that Mr C had told it he earned £3,300 and his total expenditure was £2,649. The
expenditure information requested by TQ had included housing,  council tax, utilities,
housekeeping, insurances, phone, travel, credit cards, payday loans, other loans and other
Ref: DRN00717232commitments. Mr C had said that hed spent £300  on two credit  card repayments and £500 
on payday loans.
The loan was due to be repaid over six months.  So that meant the monthly payments Mr C
needed to make were  much smaller  than if hed taken a normal  payday loan, although he 
was committing to making those repayments over a longer period. I could see that
the repayments were  relatively modest compared to Mr Cs own declared monthly  income of
£3,300 and would have  seemed sustainable when compared to his declared disposable
income of £651.
The adjudicator hadnt seen the results of TQs credit check when he made  his
recommendations. But hed obtained these for me to consider. I noted that the credit check
information we received  wasnt  in a user friendly format. It had 1,778  pages and was difficult
to understand.  But it was clear that there were numerous credit entries on it. So that I could
understand the credit results better, Id asked the adjudicator to ask TQ to supply a summary
of its credit check. TQ said that it couldnt  provide  a summary of its credit check and
suggested we obtained a credit report from Mr C. I asked  the adjudicator to ask Mr C for his
credit report.
Id reviewed Mr Cs credit  report  and could see that he had around 13 short  term loans that
were repayable around the same  time as TQs  loan. Hed borrowed from around 12 lenders
and the monthly  repayments totalled around £2,874. I thought  it was more likely than not that 
TQ would have seen from its own credit check the large number of outstanding loans Mr C 
had taken out which were repayable around the same time as its loan. And I would have
reasonably expected it to have reacted to the information I thought it was likely to have seen. 
I thought TQ might have been concerned about  Mr C omitting short term credit commitments 
of this amount  in his declaration to it of his outgoings. And in view of the amount of Mr Cs 
short term credit  commitments,  I thought TQ should have been on notice that it was unlikely 
Mr Cs financial  situation was as good as he was declaring. I thought TQ should have asked 
Mr C some very specific questions about  what the credit check showed.  I couldnt see that it 
had done this.
Although I didnt think the checks TQ did before the loan were  sufficient,  that in itself didnt 
mean that Mr Cs complaint should  succeed.  I also needed to see whether what  I considered 
to be proportionate checks would have shown  TQ that Mr C couldnt  sustainably afford the
loan.
As Id said above,  I would have expected TQ to ask Mr C some questions  about what its
credit check  showed, whilst  taking  account  of Mr Cs declared  disposable  income of £651.
Id reviewed Mr Cs credit  report  to see what better  checks  would have suggested to TQ. Id 
noted from this that Mr C had received 13 short term loans from other lenders with the 
repayments totalling around £2,874 which would have required repayment around the same 
time as TQs  loan.  Taking account of these and Mr Cs declared disposable income, I 
thought if TQ had done what Id considered to be proportionate checks, it would have
seen that the repayments for its loan werent  sustainable as Mr C had no disposable  income.
So, I thought if TQ had done what Id considered to be proportionate  checks,  it would have 
seen the problems with Mr Cs financial situation. And so, as a responsible  lender, I didnt 
think it would  have  agreed to lend to him. So, I thought  that TQ needed to pay Mr C some  
compensation relating to the loan.
Subject to any further representations by Mr C or TQ my provisional decision was that 
Ref: DRN00717233I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Trusted  Cash Limited, trading as 
Trusted Quid to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr C had paid on the loan,  and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
2. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from the loan;
3. Apply  the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on the loan
    and  pay any balance to Mr C; and
4. Remove any adverse  information about the loan from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TQ to take off tax from this interest.  TQ must give Mr C a
certificate showing how much tax it had taken  off if he asks for one.
TQ responded to say that it accepted  the proposals in my provisional decision.
Mr C responded to say that he had nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that TQ has accepted my provisional decision  and Mr C has given me nothing  further 
to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold the complaint and require  TQ to pay Mr C some 
compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Trusted Cash Limited, trading as Trusted  Quid, to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr C has paid on the loan, and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
2. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from the loan;
3. Apply  the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on the loan
    and  pay any balance to Mr C; and
4. Remove any adverse  information about the loan from Mr Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TQ to take off tax from this interest.  TQ must give Mr C a
certificate showing how much tax it had taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0071723