K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of the repair works carried out in his property following a
claim with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Mr G made  a claim on his insurance, which included  flooring that needed  to be replaced.
RSAs contractors replaced the flooring  in the property and contacted the customer to
discuss how he wanted the flooring stained.
After some discussion, the floorboards were stained.  RSA says this was done according  to
Mr Gs requirements  and that he had selected the colour. But Mr G says he hadnt selected
a colour, he had asked  the contractors to carry out a test patch to see whether the colour
was a match  and they hadnt done that. The floorboards  didnt  match the rest of the
downstairs area and Mr G was unhappy  with the result  both the colour and the quality of
the finish.
When the contractors  returned to the property to rectify the situation, Mr G says he had a
conversation with them, and they agreed  that the floorboards would be sanded down and a
clear varnish would be applied. RSA has no evidence of that conversation.  And when the
contractors returned,  they applied further layers of the varnish, causing the flooring to
become much darker than the rest of the flooring throughout the ground floor.
Mr G had tenants waiting  to move into the property so had the floorboards  sanded and 
revarnished at his own expense. He thinks RSA should reimburse his costs in rectifying  the
flooring.
RSA says it wasnt obliged to match the colour of the flooring to the rest of downstairs as the
new flooring was in a separate room. And it says Mr G chose the colour of the varnish,  so it
was simply following his requirements  and therefore it isnt liable for the mis-match. Its
contractors have also said that the difference  in colour is due to the floorboards being new
and due to the type of material that was used, which is difficult  to match.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 March 2020 letting both parties know that I intended to 
uphold the complaint in part. In it, I said:
I agree  that the area in question is a separate area to the rest of the ground floor  there is 
a door and a door bar, so I consider this to be a separate space. And therefore, I wouldnt
ordinarily expect RSA to match the flooring to the rest of the ground floor area.  But Mr Gs
policy states that RSA should replace the floorboards with the closest  possible match where
possible.
Throughout the claim, Mr G made it clear that he wanted the floor to be made  as close a
match to the original as possible and seems  to have been  aware  that the new floor wouldnt
be an exact match with the existing floor. And it seems that RSAs contractors were happy to
work with him to achieve  this  sending him photos of various attempts to match the original
floor colour to see if he was happy with any of them.
RSA says Mr G picked  the varnish  that was used  in this claim.  But having read the email, I
dont agree. I can see that RSA was having  trouble  matching the colour  of the varnish and
Mr G simply found  out the name of the colour and brand that was previously used. He then
Ref: DRN07884072asked for a test to be carried out to ensure that the colour matched the wood throughout the
ground floor of the house. His email to RSA stated:
My neighbour has confirmed that the varnish originally used was *Antique  Pine Ronseal
Diamond Hard*I would  be grateful if you could pass this on to the carpenter and project
manager so they can possibly run a test to see if they think  it could work. Please confirm.
The test appears  to have taken place  on a window frame, rather than the floor. And it doesnt
seem that Mr G was given the opportunity  to decide whether that was an appropriate  colour,
having previously  been asked whether any of the test patches  were acceptable. Given  that
he was trying to get the floor to be as close to the original colour as possible, I think  it would
have been clear to RSAs  contractors that the varnish was not a match   or even close  to
one. Having looked at the pictures it seems  obvious  this is a completely different colour. So I
think RSA should  have contacted Mr G to confirm whether he was happy to proceed.
Mr G says he then spoke  to RSAs contractors who agreed to sand the floor and re-varnish it
in a colour that was a closer match. While there is no evidence  of what was discussed during
that meeting,  I have  no reason to doubt what Mr G has told us and I find his version of
events to be very plausible. Unfortunately RSAs contractors seem  to have then applied
further coats of the same  varnish  after Mr G had already confirmed this was unacceptable.
So while I do accept that RSA didnt need  to match the colour of the varnish exactly  to the
neighbouring rooms, I think  it could have  done  more to achieve the closest possible match,
as it should have done.
Ultimately, I have to consider what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances
of this complaint.  RSA werent obliged to match the flooring to the rest of the ground  floor as
this was a separate room. But, during the course of the claim I think  it could  have done  more
to carry out appropriate test patches  to achieve a closer match  and talk to Mr G about what
was going to be possible. And I dont think it should have continued to use the varnish that
Mr G had already told it was unacceptable when  it returned to the property.
So taking everything into account I think RSA should  pay 50% of Mr Gs costs in redoing  the
flooring in the property. RSA should  also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the
date Mr G paid his contractor to the date Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc settles  the
claim.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr G initially accepted it but later provided 
further information stating that he should  be reimbursed for the full cost of the flooring. He 
said RSA promised to match  the existing flooring as closely  as possible but made no attempt 
to do this. And he said that RSA had misled him during a site visit by promising to re-
varnishing the floor in a different colour and instead reapplying the same  varnish.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that this complaint should be upheld in part.
Mr Gs comments  have already been  considered in my provisional decision.  I dont think  
RSA was obliged  to match the floor colour to the rest of the ground floor as the area being 
varnished was a separate room. And we have spoken to experts on behalf of the business 
who have explained  that it was unlikely  they would have found a match due to the difference  
Ref: DRN07884073in the age and type of materials. So I disagree  that RSA made no attempt to match  the 
existing flooring, but I think it could have done  more to discuss  what  was possible with Mr G 
during the course of the claim.  And I dont think it should have continued to use a colour that 
Mr G had already told it was unacceptable.
And in my provisional  decision I explained that I had considered  what  Mr G said had been 
discussed at the site meeting and accepted  that his version of events  was plausible.
As these  issues have already been considered, I see no reason  to depart from my initial  
findings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should pay 50% of Mr Gs costs  in redoing the flooring in 
the property. It should also pay 8% simple interest  on this amount from the date Mr G paid 
the contractor to the date it settles  the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0788407