K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Copia Wealth Management  Ltd (Copia) gave him unsuitable advice 
when it advised  him to transfer his personal pensions into a self-invested  personal pension 
plan (SIPP).  
background
In December 2014, Mr S was introduced  to Copia. He said he was cold-called  and asked if 
he wanted pensions  advice and then referred  on to Copia. Copia gave Mr S advice by 
phone.
Mr S was 51 years of age at the time, he was working and earning around £23,000 per year.  
He had a personal  pension  with a transfer value  of around £99,000.
In January 2015, Copia  carried out a risk assessment and Mr S was assessed as being a 
balanced risk investor. Copia advised  Mr S to transfer his personal pension into a SIPP. It 
also advised Mr S to use a Discretionary Fund  Manager (DFM) to invest  and manage his 
pension. 
In the suitability letter, Copia said Mr Ss objectives were:
Greater flexibility and options.
Fund/investment choices which now meet  your current circumstances with the 
benefit of a DFM;
Improved fund management and performance.
In the Aspiration  and Goals section it stated that Mr S didnt have the flexibility  he needed 
considering the new pension  changes.
Mr S signed  the paperwork to take out the SIPP and agreed to pay an initial advice fee of 
3% (around  £3,000) and an ongoing annual adviser  fee of 0.5% (around £500)  to Copia, 
along with the other  SIPP charges. The suitability letter noted that after all charges, including 
adviser charges,  it would reduce the anticipated  annual yield by 2.6%.  Further,  assuming the 
SIPP yield was 2.5% per annum (the assumed medium yield); Mr Ss fund at aged 65 years 
would be worth less, than his transfer value at the time of advice.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint concluding, in summary, that the recommendation 
to transfer into the SIPP  wasnt suitable  because:
the suitability  letter Mr S was sent fell short of what reasonably couldve been 
expected. Copia had provided  generalised advice.  The paperwork was also 
unsatisfactory. Instructions given to the adviser on how to complete the suitability 
letter had been included in the version sent to Mr S. It was especially important the 
paperwork was clear  as Mr S had not met with his adviser; 
the report provided no adequate explanation  as to why the SIPP and DFM  was 
suitable in Mr Ss circumstances; 
the suitability  letter noted that the fund charges were over twice what Mr S was 
paying in his existing arrangement, some £2,192 per annum, instead of £988.  This 
alone wouldve  been a reason to question the suitability of the advice;  and
The advice given  was not in Mr Ss interests.
Ref: DRN07703362Mr S accepted our adjudicators view. Copia  didnt. It said,  in summary:
our adjudicator couldnt say what Mr S wouldve done at the time of advice - he was 
not party to the conversation with Mr S;
they had discussed Mr Ss existing scheme  in detail.  Mr S was classed as having a 
reasonable knowledge of pensions and an understanding of the concept of using a 
DFM service;
he had expressed  a desire  to the use DFM after discussing the different types of 
investment and the benefits of using  professionals who specialise in investing;
he was a balanced investor. He transferred around £99,200 (before charges) in 
January 2015.  In April 2019, his fund was worth around £101,100, so he had derived 
a good benefit. He took a partial pension commencement lump sum (PCLS)  in May 
2019 of around  £17,400.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Ss complaint comes to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my conclusions  are 
largely the same as our adjudicators. I therefore  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
To decide this complaint I must look at whether the advice Mr S was given to transfer into 
the SIPP and opt for DFM  was suitable.  I must also look at whether Mr S was given enough 
clear, fair and not misleading information  by Copia to make  an informed choice as to 
whether to accept  that advice. If I find that the advice was not suitable, and or he was not 
given clear enough information,  I must then go on to consider whether Mr S has lost out as a 
result.
was the advice suitable?
flexibility
According to the suitability  letter, Mr S appeared to be looking  for more flexibility. Its not 
clear to me what flexibility Mr S may have been seeking. Theres insufficient information in 
the suitability letter to show this. In addition,  based  on what Ive been told about Mr Ss 
existing scheme and his investments within the SIPP, I cant  see that Mr S was looking to 
invest in such a way that he needed the SIPP to provide him with a more diverse range of 
investment options.  For example, its not apparent that he wanted to invest in more  
specialised or high risk investments. Given his balanced attitude to risk, high risk 
investments likely wouldnt  have  been  considered suitable in any event. I cant  see that his 
existing personal  pension wouldve been unable to meet his investments needs.
I can see that Mr S took a partial  PCLS in 2019,  four years after transferring into the SIPP. 
Its not apparent  from the suitability letter and from whats recorded about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time of advice, that he needed  more flexible drawdown arrangements  
than his existing  pension offered. It was noted that he intended to retire at 65, so he was 
some time off retirement. I cant see that Mr S was obviously  seeking more flexible 
drawdown arrangements at the time of advice.
Ref: DRN07703363charges
Mr S was in his fifties  and had a relatively modest sized  pension  fund. He had a modest 
income and Ive not heard that he intended to make sizeable contributions  into his SIPP. So, 
I think keeping the charges  at a modest level wouldve been important to him as these 
charges were likely  to be paid out of his existing  fund.  Given  the significant increase in 
charges payable to transfer and maintain the SIPP compared to his personal pension, it was 
evident that the investment performance in the SIPP wouldve needed to be significantly 
better than in his existing  personal pension scheme  to provide Mr S with any financial 
benefit. Based on the medium yield annual return in the SIPP  illustration, after paying all the 
SIPP charges  his fund value  at aged  65 years  wouldve been  worth less than it was at 
transfer (aged 51 years).  So, there  was a distinct possibility that Mr S would be financially 
worse off by transferring.
Also, given the size of Mr Ss fund and attitude to risk, Ive not seen anything to persuade  me 
that paying for DFM  was a proportionate  recommendation in his circumstances.
Overall, therefore given Mr S circumstances  at the time of advice, I agree with our 
adjudicator I cant see that the advice he was given was suitable in his particular 
circumstances.
clear, fair and not misleading advice 
Like our adjudicator, I think the suitability letter Mr S was sent didnt clearly explain to him 
why a SIPP and a DFM  service was appropriate  in his particular circumstances. Also why, in 
his circumstances,  it would have been  beneficial  for him to pay the additional charges to 
have the SIPP instead of a lower cost personal pension.  
I am not satisfied therefore that Mr S was given clear enough information by Copia to make 
an informed choice as to whether to transfer and set up a DFM arrangement.
has Mr S lost out as a result of Copias actions  or omissions
I think Mr S has lost out as a result of the advice and information he was given by Copia. I 
say this because  if he had been advised more appropriately, I think it unlikely that Mr S 
wouldve accepted  Copias advice to transfer  and set up the DFM arrangement.  He had no 
obvious need for a SIPP, given the modest size of his fund the DFM  arrangement appeared 
disproportionate and there was a distinct possibility that Mr S couldve been worse off as a 
result of the increased  charges.  I therefore consider that Copia should cover his financial 
loss arising from the transfer.
I also think that Copia should pay Mr S £300  compensation for the trouble and upset he has 
been caused to his retirement planning.
Copias said that as Mr Ss fund has performed  well, I should not uphold this complaint. My 
role however, is to look at whether  Mr S has potentially lost out because of Copias actions. I 
think he has. At the very least, Mr S has been caused some  trouble and upset to his 
retirement planning. Its possible he has also lost out financially. The methodology Ive used 
for calculating redress  takes into account  the performance of his SIPP fund following 
transfer. So, I think it fair and reasonable method for assessing the right amount of 
compensation to be paid.
Ref: DRN07703364fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close  as possible  
to the position  he would  probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr S would  have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what he would 
have done  but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
To compensate Mr S fairly Copia should:
 Compare  the performance of Mr Ss investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Copia should  also pay any interest  set out below.
If there  is a loss, Copia should pay into Mr Ss pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation  and any interest. Copias payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Copia shouldnt  pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Copia is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension  plan, it
should pay that amount  direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr Ss likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S 
would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation.
 In addition, Copia should pay Mr S £300  for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
 Copia  should  provide  details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear,  simple format. 
Income tax may be payable  on any interest paid. If Copia consider that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN07703365investment 
nameStatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  date)additional 
interest
SIPP Pension  openfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private  
Investors  
Income  Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment  is illiquid  (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the 
actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Copia should 
take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and 
the balance paid as above.
If Copia is unable  to purchase the investment the actual  value  should  be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr S provide an 
undertaking to pay Copia  any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking  must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Copia  will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Copia 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular payments, to 
Ref: DRN07703366keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Copia total all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who wanted 
to achieve  a reasonable return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return  index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ss risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr S would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  
investment. Rather,  I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return  Mr S could  have obtained from investments suited to his objective  and 
risk attitude.
further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website  by 
searching for quoted household interest rates  and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest  & exchange  rates data / Quoted  household interest  rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
Some examples of how the calculation should  be carried out are available on our website 
under Publications / Online Technical Resource / Investment  / Calculating 
compensation in investment complaints.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I order Copia Wealth
Management Ltd to pay Mr S fair compensation as calculated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0770336