K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited charged him a higher motor 
insurance premium because he hadn't lived in the UK from birth.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
Mr J found out that Admiral charged him around  £16 a year more for his motor insurance 
than it would have  done if hed lived in the UK since birth. He didn't think that was fair and 
complained. Admiral thought it had calculated his premium  correctly. But it said that some of 
its service could have been  better. So it waived  the £16 higher premium  and paid him a 
further £30 compensation.
Mr J still felt it was unfair that Admiral  charges a higher premium for people  who hadn't  lived 
in the UK since birth and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator  didn't  think  Admiral 
had done anything wrong. Mr J didn't agree so his complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr J thinks that, as Admiral charges a higher premium for him and others  like him who 
havent been resident in the UK since birth, then its being discriminatory. And although  I can 
understand why hes formed  that view, I dont think hes right. Ill explain why.
I should say at the outset that were  not the insurance industry regulator. So its not my role 
to tell Admiral how much  it can charge for its policies.  When  setting premiums insurers will 
think about the likelihood that their policyholders  will make a claim and how much  they will 
have to pay out for those. And its not down to me to tell insurers  what  factors they should  
take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different 
insurers will have different  views on what presents a risk and the extent of those.  Thats 
essentially a matter of commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete 
with other  policies on offer, and not something we would usually think its fair to interfere 
with. 
I can understand why Mr J might think Admiral  is unfair to charge a higher premium  to 
people who havent  lived in the UK since birth. But each  insurer will have their own methods 
of calculating risk. Im also aware  that many  motor insurers  think  an individual  who hasnt  
lived in the UK since birth presents a higher risk than the people who have.  
As insurance  is essentially an assessment of risk I dont think  theres  anything  wrong  with 
insurers considering  whether  or not certain individuals  fall into higher risk groupings. That is, 
as long as they have  data to support their assessments. In this case Admiral  has data that 
shows that policyholders who haven't lived in the UK since  birth are more likely to claim than 
those who have and that the amount of time theyve  spent in the UK is also a factor. And Ive 
noted that assessment isnt based  on where the customer was born.  So it doesnt consider a 
customers nationality or race, but only when they moved to the UK. And as it has treated 
Mr J similarly to others with similar  circumstances who fall into the same higher risk 
grouping, I think its done so reasonably.  
Ref: DRN06520802I do understand why Mr J was concerned that Admiral  might be discriminating against  him 
and others  like him. And weve taken his concerns very seriously.  But as Ive said above 
Admiral has statistics that indicate that when a customer moved  to the UK is an indicator of 
their risk rating. So it factors that change of risk into its premium calculations.  Thats  
something its allowed  to do. And I havent  seen  any evidence that Admiral uses rating  
factors that breach:  relevant law, regulatory guidance, rules or standards  or any other  tests  I 
may use to consider  if its acted fairly or not. 
Mr J has compared the situation with his professional indemnity insurance. Hes said the 
providers of that insurance don't  charge him a higher premium based  on his residency in the 
UK. But the two products are entirely different. And the statistics  that the relevant insurers  
gather in order to calculate their pricing  structures  will be equally as different. So I don't think  
its reasonable to make  a direct comparison between the pricing  of a motor policy and 
professional indemnity policy  as the two products  cover entirely separate  risks.
It follows that while I sympathise with Mr Js position, I think Admiral has dealt with him fairly 
and reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0652080