K821x#15complaint
Mr I is complaining that J & M Insurance Services (UK) Limited  (J&M) mislead him about 
what he could use as a no claims bonus (NCB)  when  he applied  for a commercial vehicle 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr I took out a commercial vehicle  insurance policy through J&M  a broker   to work as a 
taxi driver. He took the policy out through a telephone call. Mr I says that he used to work as 
a taxi driver  and had taken out his insurance policy through J&M. And he said that he asked 
the call handler  whether  he would be able to use his NCB from his previous insurance policy 
and he said the call handler advised  that would be fine.
After the policy  started, J&M wrote to Mr I to ask him to provide proof of his NCB. Mr I did 
respond to this request, so J&M wrote  to him and advised that hed have to pay an additional 
premium of around £2,000. Mr I responded to say that J&M already had his proof from his 
previous policy. But J&M said it couldnt accept that because it was from more  than two 
years ago. So he says he was told to provide a copy of his private car insurance policys  
NCB. But J&M said that it couldnt accept that because it was still active on his private 
insurance policyu.  
Mr I then asked J&M to cancel the insurance  policy, which it did. But it said that Mr I still 
owed a further £163. Mr I didnt  think this was fair given the amount hed already paid for the 
policy.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that under  the Insurance  Act, J&M wasnt  
entitled to re-rate the premium and ask for an additional premium. So he thought that Mr I 
should have been charged  a pro-rata  premium based on the original  premium   i.e. before 
the additional premium was charged.
J&M said it didnt agree with the adjudicators interpretation of the Insurance  Act and asked  
for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I provisionally upheld  this complaint for the following reason:
Under the Insurance Act 2015  it was Mr Is responsibility to tell J&M about  everything the 
insurer needed to know to decide whether to insure the risk and under  what terms (duty of 
fair presentation). 
Its important to note here that J&M were acting as a broker  in this matter. So it wasnt  
responsible for what premium the insurer charged when the policy  was cancelled. So, while  I 
dont disagree  with the comments the adjudicator has made  about  what premium can be 
charged for the time Mr I was insured, Mr I would need to direct this aspect of the complaint 
to the insurer  of the policy.
My role in this complaint is to assess whether J&M treated Mr I fairly in its role as a broker. 
The fundamental crux of this complaint is what Mr I said to J&M on the telephone when he 
took out the insurance policy and what J&Ms call handler advised him on the call. J&M 
doesnt have a copy of this telephone call, so I have to decide what  I think  was most likely to 
have happened. Im persuaded that what Mr Is told us about the initial  telephone  call was 
what most likely  is what happened. 
Ref: DRN00464242J&M has said that its call handlers all follow a detailed  script for when new insurance  policies 
are taken out. And I think  thats likely to have happened here.  Ive reviewed the script, but it 
only refer to situations where the applicant is looking to use a NCB from a private car 
insurance policy, which wasnt the case here.  But, irrespective of this, I think  its safe to say 
that there  would have  been a discussion about Mr Is previous NCB. The script suggests that 
the call handler  would have asked Mr I to provide proof of his NCB. Given  he was previously 
insured through J&M, I think its most likely  that he would  have said this at the time.  So I 
think it should have  been clear to J&M at this point  from its internal records  that Mr Is proof 
of NCB was out of date. Had the call handler  explained this, I dont think  Mr I would have  
taken out the insurance policy and incurred the costs that he did.
So, based  on the information  Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold this complaint. And I intend  
to say that Mr I should only be required to pay the proportion of the original  premium  that he 
paid. Mr I was insured for 29 days,  so I think  he should only pay £128.49 of the premium 
charged. I also dont  think Mr I should be required  to pay the cancellation fee in this case  as I 
think it was J&Ms responsibility that the policy was cancelled.
So I intend to say that J&M should  refund the difference between what  Mr I had already paid 
and the £128.49 I think he should  have been required to pay. It should also pay 8% simple 
interest on this from 10 January 2019   when  the policy was cancelled   until he gets it back. 
I also intend to award  £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter  
has caused him.
J&M accepted  my provisional  decision. Mr I didnt think the amount I had awarded in 
compensation was a fair reflection of all the distress and inconvenience  this matter  had 
caused him particularly  when J&M referred  the matter to a debt collection agency.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as I initially did for the same reasons. Both parties have 
accepted that J&M should  only charge Mr I £128.49.  So I dont need to address this issue  
any further.
I note that Mr I doesnt think that £100 is sufficient compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. I dont dispute that this matter  would have  been  
distressing. But I still think  £100  is fair compensation for everything thats happened, 
including the fact that the debt was transferred  to a debt collection agency. So I dont think  
J&M needs to pay more than that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require J & M Insurance  Services (UK) Limited  to:
1.refund  the difference between what Mr I had already paid and the £128.49 I think  he 
should have been  required to pay;
2.pay 8% simple interest on this from 10 January 2019  when the policy  was cancelled  
until Mr I gets it back. If J&M thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
Ref: DRN00464243deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate
3.pay £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr I.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046424