K820x#14complaint
I understand this complaint concerns the sale of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy, 
and two packaged protection policies called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
In 1994 Bank of Scotland plc, who were trading at the time as Halifax Building Society 
(Halifax) sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in connection  with a 
mortgage. The PPI provided cover  for Mr H. 
In 2001 as the mortgage amount increased  Halifax sold them a TMPP policy that included 
PPI and some life cover. The PPI provided  cover for Mr H and the life cover was in the 
names of Mr and Mrs H. 
In 2007 the mortgage  amount increased again and Halifax  sold another  TMPP which  
included some life cover in the name  of Mr and Mrs H. The mortgage  was jointly  held on all 
three dates.  
background
The complaint was looked at by an adjudicator who didnt  think  that the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings.  So the complaint has been  
passed to me to consider.  
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 12 December 2018, a copy  of 
which is attached  to, and forms part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I was minded not to uphold this complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 12 January 2019. At the time of writing  I have  not received any 
further submissions from either  party. I consider that sufficient time has been given for a 
response had either party  wished  to make one. So I am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive decided  not to uphold these complaints. I explain why below.
1994 sale
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any of the documents they wouldve seen at the time. 
Given the length of time since the sale, this is understandable. These events occurred over 
24 years  ago. And such periods of time can make it hard for the parties to recall things with 
complete accuracy.  So, considering how long ago the sale was in this case,  I think its more 
likely that Halifax wouldve made Mr and Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional  and that 
they chose to take it, even though Mr and Mrs H may not remember  that now,  many years  
later. 
Ref: DRN03907722Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs H  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mr H was eligible for the PPI policy and wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the 
cover. Mr H told us that he would  not have received any sick pay if he was off work through  
ill health, and that he had no other means he could have  relied on such  that he may have 
expected to struggle to make his repayments  in that event, or if he lost his job. The PPI 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if he was unable  to work because  of accident, 
sickness, or if he lost his job. So I think they wouldve found  the PPI useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover.
2001 sale
Halifax has provided a copy of the TMPP application form completed at the time of sale,  so 
Ive seen the declarations Mr and Mrs H signed as part of the application process. The 
section regarding TMPP says that Halifax recommends you consider our TMPP. And there 
is a signature box which  can be filled in to take the cover which  says Yes, We/I would like to 
take advantage of the TMPP.  Mr and Mrs H have signed this box dated 30 May 2001. This 
section is separate  to the section in which Mr and Mrs H signed  for the mortgage. And the 
language used by Halifax is of something  being offered. So, overall, I think  Halifax  made Mr 
and Mrs H aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they chose to take it.
Halifax has accepted  that it advised  Mr and Mrs H to take out the policy,  so they had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for them. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time and I dont think it was an unsuitable recommendation. 
I say this because  Mr H was eligible for the PPI policy and wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the 
cover. Mr H told us that he would  not have received any sick pay if he was off work through  
ill health, and that he had no other means he could have  relied on such  that he may have 
expected to struggle to make his repayments  in that event, or if he lost his job. The PPI 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  if he was unable  to work because  of accident, 
sickness, or if he lost his job. So I think they wouldve found  the PPI useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover.
Ive looked at whether the business recommended life cover that was suitable for your
circumstances at the time  for example,  if the amount of cover and the term were right for 
your needs.  Or if the cover  matched  the type of mortgage youd arranged.  At this time you 
already had some life cover in place and the life cover recommended was to cover the 
difference between  the amount of that cover  and the amount of the borrowing. 
Having looked  at your circumstances  when you bought the policy,  I think that the cover 
was suitable for you, as it matched the amount you borrowed and how long youd 
borrowed it for  and it was the right type of cover for the mortgage  you chose. And I 
Ref: DRN03907723couldnt see any other reasons why this part of the Total Mortgage Protection Plan had 
been mis-sold.
2007 sale
Here is the template we use but of course we make changes to it when needed. So for this 
case I should have  said the consumers had  this much existing cover. But even if they had 
not had existing cover this would not have changed  the outcome due to the same  reason in 
the template 
Halifax sold Mr and Mrs H life cover for £64,500 and they had an existing mortgage 
endowment which provided a further  £41,502 of life cover. But Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage 
was for £115,000   so, even though the amount  is modest,  it doesnt  look like this cover was 
enough to protect  their home. So, it seems  that Halifax shouldve pointed  this out - and, if 
they had, I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have taken out a policy  with only this amount of 
cover. 
But, as Mr and Mrs H were paying  less for their cover than they would have, if Halifaxs 
policy had covered them for the right amount, it doesnt look like this cost Mr and Mrs H 
anything extra. And it would only have affected Mr and Mrs H if theyd needed to make  a 
claim on it  but it doesnt appear that they did. So it seems they have suffered no loss as a 
result of this. And as the policy is now cancelled, this wont affect Mr and Mrs H from 
suffering detriment in the future, either. 
Although I think Halifax doesnt appear to have done  everything they shouldve, as Mr and 
Mrs H havent lost out financially, I wont be asking them to pay any compensation. 
Ive carefully reviewed all of the information  provided  to me. As a result Im not persuaded, 
for the reasons given above, that the policies were mis-sold.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  that the PPI policies were mis-sold,  and I make  no award against 
Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H 
either to accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing, before 17 February 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0390772