K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) unfairly recorded her account as in default 
when she missed a single payment on a previously agreed repayment plan. She feels  this is 
unfair because Next didnt inform her it was going  to mark her account  as being in default 
and she doesnt  think it was fair when she only missed one payment.
background
Mrs G has had an account with Next Online since December 2015. On the 12 September 
2018 she contacted Next to tell them she was experiencing financial difficulties and a 
reduced monthly payment plan was set up to help her. Mrs G made  the first three monthly 
payments without problem but then missed the fourth which was due by the 5 January 2019.
Next say they wrote to Mrs G on the 14 January letting  her know that position and asking her 
to pay £78.39, or contact them inside 14 days to avoid a default notice being issued.
Mrs G made  a payment  of £50 on 14 January but this wasnt  enough to prevent the default 
notice being issued on the 29 January. Next said they have  a duty to report correct  
information to the credit  reference agencies and so correctly reported Mrs Gs account on 
the 18 February. They didnt think they had done anything wrong.
Mrs G said she didnt find out her account  had defaulted until 20 February, when she 
received a text informing  her that it had. But Next also said that in addition to their letter  of 
the 14 January  they also wrote to her on the 29 January  advising that she hadnt kept to the 
terms of her payment plan. They said both letters asked her to resume  her standard  monthly 
repayment, or to contact  them.  And that they might  mark her account as in default. 
Mrs G was unhappy with Nexts response and so an investigator from this service looked  
into the complaint  but didnt think Next had done anything wrong. Mrs G disagreed  with our 
investigators view and so the matter  has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
I will not repeat our investigators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
The accepted facts are that Mrs G entered into a repayment plan with Next, agreeing to pay 
£40 per month from her account balance. She missed a single payment in January 2019. 
Because she missed  that payment she was in breach  of her agreed repayment  plan and 
thus brought it to an end. 
Ref: DRN02432192Mrs Gs Experian credit report  shows  four missed  payments for February and the default 
marked down in March  2018. The reason it shows the four missed payments is because  
whilst on the plan Mrs G was not paying  her contractual monthly repayments. When  she 
breached the terms of the plan the report shows her as missing all the payments for the 
duration of the plan,  since none of the contractual monthly payments were  made.
Mrs G disputes that Next sent her letters on the 14 and 29 January 2019. I can accept  she 
didnt receive the letters  since she states  she didnt, and I have no reason to doubt her. 
Equally, Next say they sent the letters and I have no reason to doubt  the truth of what  they 
say either.  Like out investigator I have seen that the letters  were  correctly addressed to 
Mrs G so Im satisfied  that Next did actually  write  to her.
Mrs G would of course know she had not made  the January payment on time and so I think  
it would  have been reasonable for her to contact Next to advise them of any ongoing 
difficulty and discuss a way forward. But the first contact she made  was on the 20 February 
after she received  the text message.  So, I think Next has acted fairly here because it first of 
all agreed to a repayment  plan with Mrs G, and then notified her twice of her missed 
payments and asked  her to get in touch with them. And I do accept that Next do have a duty 
to update the credit reference  agencies  accurately  and that is what they did in the absence  
of any response or payment.
I know Mrs G will be disappointed  with my decision but I have come to the same conclusion  
as the investigator  and for the same reasons. I cant say that Next has done anything  wrong  
here in reporting  to the credit reference agencies what actually happened regarding  Mrs Gs 
management of her account.  So, Im not satisfied  that Next have treated Mrs G unfairly, and 
Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Next Retail Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0243219