K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about his caravan insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc after it 
declined a claim he made to it for damage  caused by a storm.
background
Mr R found his caravan  roof had been damaged and water had got in. He found the damage 
at the end of March  2018. When he called RSA it explained it was having a surge  of claims 
due to storm weather  that had occurred  in the recent weeks.  In mid-April an assessor 
appointed by RSA came to look at the damage. He spoke  with the site manager and 
concluded that the roof had likely been  damaged  and let water in over time. RSA declined  
the claim.
Mr R said the assessor  was a motor  vehicle expert  and had said himself that he knew little 
about caravans.  Mr R got his own expert  to look at his caravan.  Mr Rs expert issued a 
report which was sent to RSA. RSA said it changed  nothing; in its view the report said high 
winds over time had caused the damage and therefore it maintained its decline. Mr R 
complained to this service.
Our investigator  spoke to Mr Rs expert  but concluded  that the damage wasnt  typical of that 
caused by storm. Therefore, she felt RSAs decline was fair and reasonable. Mr R asked  for 
an ombudsmans  decision. I considered the matter and felt RSAs decline of the claim had 
been unfair  and unreasonable. I issued a provisional decision explaining my view. Both 
parties have now responded; their responses and my replies in these respects are set out 
below, along  with copied sections from my provisional findings. My view on the complaint 
hasnt changed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my provisional findings I said:
RSA has accepted  that there was a storm. So I dont need  to consider that issue.
RSA responded  saying  this isnt a perils  based policy,  so the focus  shouldnt  been whether 
or not there was a storm. I accept  this isnt a perils  based policy  but the argument in play has 
focused on whether  a storm caused  the damage  or whether it had resulted from wear and 
tear (damage resulting from which is excluded by the policy).
My provisional findings continued:
Roof damage caused by flexing is something  Id associate with storm damage. Because a 
storm will mean greater pressures are applied than normally experienced by a roof that is 
designed to flex.
To an extent I can understand  why RSA felt the damage in question  here wasnt 
predominantly caused by storm. It did have an expert assess  it and his view was that it was 
gradual. However I think RSAs opinion was clouded somewhat  as it assumed from the 
outset that this damage was a continuance of an earlier claim. I also think RSA didnt stop to 
Ref: DRN01212572consider the fact that its experts opinion,  according  to his report, seems based on what  he 
took from what the site manager said. And to me that isnt persuasive evidence  as to cause.
Mr Rs expert said high winds had caused  the damage. RSA read that to mean high winds  
over time. But I dont think its reasonable to say that is actually what the report said. RSA 
could easily  have made some enquiries  with the expert but didnt do so. Nor did it ever seem 
to take into account  Mr Rs concerns that its assessor wasnt  best qualified to determine  the 
cause of the damage.
When our investigator spoke to Mr Rs expert  he was easy  to get hold of and cooperative.
He explained  that whilst the type of roof on Mr Rs caravan does quite commonly  suffer from 
similar damage as a result of wear and tear  wear  and tear damage presents in a different 
position. He confirmed that its his opinion that this particular damage was caused by a 
storm. He also explained that, in his opinion, the limited internal damage suggested the roof 
hadnt been damaged,  and allowing water in, over a long time either.  On balance Im more 
persuaded by what he says  which is his own view with some reasoning to support it  than 
what RSAs expert says.
Taking everything into account  I think RSAs decline was unfair and unreasonable. 
Whilst Ive noted  RSAs comment about wear  and tear being excluded I stand by what I said 
provisionally; I think its decline was unfair  and unreasonable. RSA sought to show that the 
damage had resulted  from wear and tear, but it didnt  do enough to establish,  in my view, 
and as explained provisionally,  that this was most likely the case. Nothing it has said in 
response gives me cause  to revise that view. Its my final decision that RSA acted unfairly 
and unreasonably when it declined Mr Rs claim and it should now settle  the claim.
My provisional findings continued:
Im minded to say it should repair or cover the cost of repairing the caravan. I see that Mr R 
had an estimate for work for £4,990. This was less than RSAs  expert thought  it would cost 
to repair  the caravan. Im minded to say the fair resolution here is for RSA to pay Mr R 
£4,990 plus interest  *. Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per annum and paid from the date of 
loss until settlement is made. In this case that should account  for any uplift  in costs  as I see 
the estimate was only valid for 30 days. 
Mr R said the initial internal damage  had only been  to the hallway walls  and ceiling but he 
had told us that whilst RSA deliberated the claim the water  damage had spread. He said 
whilst the award of interest  was welcomed it wouldnt cover the cost of repairing all the 
additional damage, which now includes bedroom  ceilings,  the walls in the bedrooms and 
bathroom, and floor damage  in one bedroom, the hall and the bathroom. Mr R also said his 
policy was new for old and he wanted this taking into consideration. 
The initial claim notification referred to damage in the bedroom as well as some other areas, 
including under the kitchen sink. The bedroom  flooring  were  mentioned  as well. However, 
Mr Rs expert assessed what repairs were necessary as a result of the roof damage;  the 
walls and ceilings in two bedrooms and the hallway. He wasnt  minded to include any other 
damage, although more was seemingly already present. And I note that RSA had, within  a 
month of the claim being made, told Mr R that it wasnt minded to uphold it. 
Whilst Mr R has said some temporary  repairs to the roof were carried  out he hasnt said 
when this was done. As RSA had made its position  on the claim clear I dont think it would 
Ref: DRN01212573be fair to make  it pay for any further  damage  that occurred after that. Im satisfied that the 
initial repair estimate  obtained by Mr R in June 2018 reasonably reflects  the work necessary 
as result of the insured damage claim.
I have noted what  Mr R has said about  new for old cover.  However this relates to situations  
where replacements are provided.  The policy  states  that, in the first instance, RSA will repair  
or pay the cost for repair, and only if repair isnt possible or the cost of that will exceed the 
market value, will other options be considered. Mr Rs own expert believes the caravan can 
be repaired, at less than the market value, and so that repair  or the cost of it  is all I can 
fairly and reasonably make RSA liable for. 
My provisional findings continued:
I understand that the family have been  unable to use the caravan. RSA issued its final 
response on 31 July 2018. Im going to require RSA to pay Mr R £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its unfair and unreasonable decline caused.
Mr R said hed had to pay site fees for the last two years. So he thought RSA should be 
made to pay them back to him.
I understand the frustration Mr R feels but the site fees are something he would always  have 
had to pay. His loss is the distress and inconvenience caused by not being able to use the 
caravan. Im satisfied that, in this respect £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to pay Mr R:
£4,990 to repair the caravan, plus 8% interest* from the date of loss until settlement is 
made.
£250 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest  due to 
Mr R, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0121257