K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complained to RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) about the quality of a car it 
supplied to him through a hire purchase  agreement.
Background
In January 2018, Mr B acquired  a brand-new car which he financed through  a 49 month hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI. The cash price of the car was almost £23,000, it was first 
registered in January 2018 and it hadnt travelled any miles.
Mr B said since  hes had the car, it has been inspected by engineers  both in the U.K. and 
while travelling abroad on several occasions due to issues with the car. He said he and his 
wife have experienced the following problems:
-issues with the key code;
-automatic light beam not working;
-car wouldnt  start and it had broken  down on at least four occasions; 
-electrical faults which led to the windows being open while the car was immobile and 
issues with the locking system; and
-loss and surge of power when driving.
Mr B said within  a few weeks of acquiring  the car, he experienced issues  with it not starting.  
He said the car was taken to a local garage  and he was told there was potentially an issue 
with the fuel system and key code. 
Mr B said several of these  problems  with the car happened while  he was travelling abroad 
and he had to call the breakdown service or take it to a local garage.  Mr B had also brought 
the car to the dealership  in the U.K. on at least three occasions - April, November and 
December 2018.  The dealership fixed the issues with the key code  and the automatic light 
beam. In relation  to the issues concerning the loss and surge in power, the dealership said 
this was likely due to the incorrect driving mat being  used which was catching  on the pedals. 
However Mr B didnt believe this was the cause of the problem. The dealership had been 
unable to find any other faults with the car as reported.
         
Mr B complained to RCI. They said the dealership had identified  what was causing  the loss 
and surge  of power. They said they couldnt  find any faults with the car and if there  were  any 
current concerns, it would need to be inspected by the dealership. Overall RCI were satisfied 
the dealership  had appropriately dealt with the issues reported. They  also pointed out that 
the car shouldnt be taken  outside of the U.K. for more than 60 days  per calendar year. As a 
result, RCI disagreed  to allow Mr B to reject the car however they set out the other available 
options should he choose not to keep it. 
Unhappy with RCIs response,  Mr B referred the complaint to our service.  Because of when 
the problems were initially reported, the investigator  suggested  RCI arrange for an 
independent inspection. This was carried out in July 2019 and the car had travelled over 
19,000 miles at this point.  The inspection  report concluded the car drove and performed as 
expected for a car of its age and mileage and no faults  were  identified. 
Based on the findings of the independent  inspection, our investigator recommended  the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. They said they were unable to say the car was of 
Ref: DRN00966062unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied. Mr B disagreed  and maintained there were 
faults. He wants RCI to allow him to reject the car and end his finance  agreement.
In July 2020, I issued a provisional decision and said:
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so I can consider a 
complaint relating to it. RCI is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement 
and is responsible for a complaint about  the supply and the quality or Mr Bs car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods,  there  is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is satisfactory.  
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other 
relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  include things like the age and 
mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.  
In this case, RCI supplied Mr B with a brand new car that hadnt travelled any miles at the 
time of supply. So I believe its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the quality 
to be higher than a second-hand car which may have travelled many  miles and used 
significantly. As its a new car, its reasonable for Mr B to expect it to be free from defects 
and for a significant  amount of time.
Car wont start 
Mr B said his car had broken down or wouldnt start on at least four times, with the first 
occasion being a few weeks after acquiring  the car, while he was travelling abroad. The local 
garage advised there may be an issue with the fuel system and key code. However when  it 
was inspected by the dealership in April 2018,  they couldnt find a fault as to why the car had 
broken down but they did find a fault with the key code.  
Mr B said the car had broken  down a few times while travelling  abroad.  RCI confirmed they 
had evidence of one call-out  from their European  breakdown partner and this was in August 
2018. It was reported that there  was an error  message  relating  to the keys. As this call out 
happened outside of the U.K, RCI said they dont have the relevant job card which  may 
provide more information. They also said their European breakdown partner had no other 
record of any other  call outs for Mr B. 
Its difficult to say why the car had broken down but I wouldnt expect this to happen to a 
brand new car within the first year. However the problem is theres  a lack of evidence so its 
hard to pin point the cause of the breakdown  and despite inspections, the dealership were 
unable to find a cause. Whatever was the cause,  I believe it wouldve made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality  and on balance, I think it likely  relates to the issue  with the key code  
and as explained above this was resolved in April 2018.
While I accept the car has broken down on occasions, there is not enough  evidence  for me 
to safely conclude this problem remains and the car still isnt performing as it should. 
Currently, the only evidence I can rely on is the inspection  report which said the car was 
taken for a ten mile drive test during which the car was turned off and re-started 
approximately six times  without issue, therefore  it concluded no faults  could be found and Mr 
Bs car is commensurate with the age and recorded mileage. 
Ref: DRN00966063I understand Mr B has disagreed and said there are still problems, so I invite  him to provide 
any further evidence  about this issue so I can consider it.
Issues with the key code
In April 2018, Mr B took the car back to the dealership.  At this point, the car had travelled 
over 5,300  miles. A problem was found  with the key code system on the display so based on 
the job cards, it is clear  this was a fault with the car.
Ive already set out the high expectations, a reasonable  person would expect. I wouldnt 
expect a brand-new  car which had travelled so few miles to experience such a problem, so 
soon after its supply.  So for this reason, I dont believe  the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the time of supply  and I would expect RCI to fix the problem which  is what happened here. A 
repair was carried out at no cost to Mr B. Based on the findings of the inspection  report 
which says two keys were tested and driven  with, and no warning lights or issues were  
found, I think its likely this repair was successful and the fault rectified. 
Electrical faults
Mr B says while he and his wife were  abroad  there was an occasion when the car wasnt in 
use and he woke up to find it unlocked  with all the windows down. On another  occasion, he 
said his wife was locked inside the car and the only way he could let her out was to 
disconnect the battery, as advised  by a local garage. RCI nor Mr B have  provided  evidence 
to our service concerning  these incidences and what caused  this.
RCI said theyre unable  to find a fault and as it appears this had happened  a couple of times, 
it is understandable  that it would be difficult to replicate the issue.  Ive carefully  considered 
what Mr B has said and I am sorry to hear this happened. However given the absence of 
further evidence  and based  on the findings of the inspection report, Im not persuaded there  
is a fault with the car in relation to this problem. But as mentioned above, Im happy to 
consider any further evidence  Mr B may have.
Automatic beam not working
According to job cards in November  2018, while investigating another  issue,  the automatic 
beam function on Mr Bs car was found to be working intermittently. At this point, the car had 
travelled over 11,700 miles and had been in Mr Bs possession  for approximately  10 months.  
For a brand-new car I wouldnt expect there to be such a problem at this point in time in all 
the circumstances. So Im not satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality at the time of 
supply and I would expect RCI to fix the problem which is what  happened.  The dealership  
carried out a repair by replacing the light/rain sensors which was considered to be the cause 
of the problem. The repair was carried out at no cost to Mr B. As there is no indication  this 
fault persists, Im satisfied this resolved the issue so I dont believe RCI needs to do anything  
further in relation to this.
Loss and surge of power
In November and December 2018,  Mr B brought the car to the dealership  and complained  
that while driving, the car would often  lose or surge in power. At the time of these  
inspections, the car had travelled over 11,700  and 12,700 miles respectively.  
Ref: DRN00966064RCI said the dealership was able to replicate this issue  and they advised it was likely due to 
the incorrect driving mats being used which was catching on the pedals, therefore impacting 
the performance of the car. Mr B disputes  this could be the cause of the problem but he has 
not provided any evidence to demonstrate its a result of something else or evidence to show 
the problem remains.  So based on what RCI has said and no fault being found  at the time of 
the independent inspection, Im not persuaded this particular  issue is a fault that makes the 
car of unsatisfactory quality.
Compensation 
As explained above, I believe  there were faults that a reasonable person would not expect 
with a new car, thereby causing a breach of contract.  
When the car was returned to the dealership  for repairs relating  to the key code and 
automatic light beam, Mr B was provided  with a courtesy car meaning  he was kept mobile. 
However I think its fair that RCI compensate Mr B for the inconvenience  caused by having  
to go back to the dealership a few times and the trouble and upset  caused  by the breakdown  
of the car. Therefore  I believe  RCI should  pay £250  to him for the inconvenience caused.
Summary
In summary,  based on the evidence I have, I believe there were a couple of faults with Mr 
Bs car, namely the key codes and the automatic  light beam, which meant  it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply and I would expect RCI to put things right.  However 
unless Mr B can provide  evidence to show otherwise, I believe these faults  were  
successfully repaired at no cost to him.  
While I accept the car had broken down on occasions, overall  I dont believe theres enough 
evidence to show what happened,  nor that the issue remains. So I cant safely  conclude the 
car still isnt currently performing as it should. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr B and Im sorry to hear he and his wife have experienced  issues with the car, especially 
when driving abroad, but I cant reasonably say RCI should take the car back  and end the 
finance agreement.
Response to my provisional decision
Both Mr B and RCI were  invited to respond to my provisional decision.
Mr B said with the exception of a call out while travelling abroad,  the car was only ever taken 
to the dealership, not to a local garage. He said the dealerships  service  manager believed 
there was a fault with the car but the general manager didnt believe so and failed to look 
into the issue. Lastly he said he had sent all information to our service which  showed  the car 
was faulty. RCI agreed with the findings  of the provisional decision.  
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I thank Mr B for his response,  there  
is still insufficient evidence that the car is still not performing as it should. Therefore I dont 
consider what he has said changes my opinion meaning the outcome remains  the same as 
detailed in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN00966065My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
To put things right, RCI Financial Services Limited  should pay £250  to Mr B for the 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0096606