K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about how AA Underwriting Limited dealt with another  drivers claim against
his motor insurance policy.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 27 March  2020, 
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I wont  repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that whilst  AA wasnt at fault in settling the claim 
against Mr P, it didnt keep him informed about the progress of the claim or tell him when it 
had come to a settlement or what that meant for him. I said that fair compensation for Mr Ps 
inconvenience was £100.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P accepted my provisional decision but AA didnt.  It said:
It had now retrieved  the recordings of its calls with Mr P in May 2017  and
November 2018.
It couldnt find its final response to Mr P, so it didnt think  wed followed the correct 
process.
In the May 2017 call, Mr P accepts that the incident happened, so he was fully aware 
of the claim made against him. It told Mr P that it was waiting to hear from the other 
drivers insurer  about the cost of the claim.
It had a duty to deal with the claim, as it was the Road Traffic Act insurer.
In the phone call in November 2018, it apologised to Mr P for not providing him with 
an update. It doesnt  tell its insured  how much  is being claimed before settlement. 
The complaint  shouldnt be upheld as Mr P is in no worse position.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our file shows that Mr Ps complaint was sent to AA in November 2018. AA had eight weeks 
to issue a final response to Mr P but didnt do so. So, we proceeded to deal with the 
complaint after the eight  weeks had elapsed. The absence of a final response  from a 
business after the eight week period doesnt  prevent this service from considering a 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN09179432As I said in my provisional decision,  I dont think AA was wrong  to deal with the claim in 
itself. Mr P acknowledged that the incident had occurred. But wed expect AA to deal with 
Mr P fairly and it didnt  do that here. Thats  because  it didnt keep  him updated  about  claim 
and I think it should  have done so. AA settled the claim in August  2017 but didnt  tell Mr P 
about that. 
AA says that it doesnt tell its insured how much is being claimed before settlement. I didnt 
suggest that it should. Ive now heard in the recording  of the May 2017 phone call that AA 
didnt know the extent of the claim at the outset and thats quite usual.  But when Mr P asked 
about how much the claim was for, it was reasonable for AA to tell him, as it did in the 
November 2018  phone  call, some 15 months  after it had settled the claim against  him. 
AA referred to dealing  with the claim under the Road Traffic Act. Based on what Ive seen, 
there was a valid and subsisting policy in place, so AA dealt with the other  drivers  claim  in 
the usual way and not under  the Road Traffic Act.
 
I think Mr P suffered  inconvenience because AA didnt keep him updated about the claim 
against him. I remain of the view that fair compensation for that is £100.
Considering everything, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  Mr Ps complaint  and AA 
should pay him compensation of £100  in relation to his inconvenience.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  I now require  AA Underwriting Limited to pay Mr P compensation of 
£100. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09179433extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr P complains about how AA Underwriting Limited dealt with another  drivers claim against 
his motor insurance policy.
background
In November  2016, Mr P took out a motor  insurance policy  with AA. In April 2017, Mr P was 
involved in an incident with another driver and the other drivers insurer  contacted AA.
In May 2017, AA wrote to Mr P and on 31 May 2017, Mr P phoned AA. AAs notes  indicate  
that during  that call, Mr P accepted that the incident  happened but said that the damage 
was minor and he thought the matter  could be settled privately.
In August 2017, AA settled the other  drivers claim.
In November  2017, Mr P called AA and asked for an update  on the claim. It appears that 
call was disconnected and neither AA nor Mr P tried to reinstate the call.
In November  2018, Mr P contacted AA again and asked about the claim cost, so that 
he could inform other potential insurers. AA told him that the claim costs were £897.23.
Mr P complained that AA hadnt kept him updated  about the claim.
Mr P says that AA didnt  tell him that a successful claim had been  made  against  his motor 
insurance policy. He says that he first learned about this when  AA sent him a renewal 
notice and he saw that his premium  had increased. Mr P said that he couldnt  insure  with 
another insurer as he was asked for details of the claim,  which he didnt  have.
Mr P wants information about the claim and compensation for AAs failure  to 
communicate with him and the effect that had on his ability to shop around at renewal.
One of our adjudicators  looked at what happened. She didnt think that AA had prejudiced
Mr Ps position.
Mr P didnt  agree with the adjudicator. He said that:
The adjudicator  hadnt accurately described  events.
In the phone call he made to AA, after he received its initial  letter informing him of a 
potential claim, it asked him to confirm  that an incident had happened  and told him 
that it would be in touch should  the claim progress. It didnt contact him further 
about the claim and he wasnt  asked to provide a report.
AA didnt  respond to his complaint.
During a phone call at the time of renewal, AA apologised  that it hadnt contacted 
him and agreed  that it should have done so.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
Ref: DRN09179434my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The powers of the Financial Ombudsman  Service are set out in our rules, which 
determine the matters that we can investigate and dont  include complaint handling by 
insurers. So, I cant consider the part of Mr Ps complaint  about  how AA handled his 
complaint. I realise Mr P will be disappointed by this but I cant  act outside my legal 
powers. I can consider  Mr Ps complaint that AA didnt keep him informed about  a claim 
against his policy.
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of Mr Ps policy which  provide as follows: 
Your liability to other people
The Insure r will pay amounts including claimants costs  that You are legally liable  to pay 
for: []
(b) Damage to property  as a result  of an accident involving the Insured Car [].
SUBSECTION 4: Making a claim
(b) The Insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct at the Insurers expense in Your
name []
(i) the negotiation defence  or settlement of any claim;
So, AA can settle a claim by another  driver, as it sees fit. But wed expect it to treat Mr P
fairly in doing  so.
We asked AA for the recording of the phone call in May 2017, when Mr P and AA first 
talked about the claim,  but it hasnt  been forthcoming. Thats not entirely surprising, given 
the time thats  past since that phone call. In the absence of the call recording,  I rely on AAs 
notes of the call, which  were  made  at the time. The notes record that Mr P accepted the 
incident happened but had mislaid the other drivers details and he thought that the 
damage was minor.
I dont think that AA was at fault in settling  the claim in itself.  Mr P acknowledged that 
the incident happened. But I dont think AA kept Mr P informed  about  the progress of 
the claim or told him when it had come  to a settlement and what that meant for Mr P. 
Mr P didnt  find out that the claim had been  settled until renewal in November 2018, 
some 15 months after AA had settled the claim.  I think the onus was on AA to keep 
Mr P informed and it didnt do that here.
Ive heard in the recording of one of the calls Mr P made to AA that he now has details 
of the amount AA paid to settle  the claim,  so I dont need to address that further.
Mr P says that he couldnt shop around at renewal. Its difficult for him to quantify  any loss at 
this distance,  as hed have to show what his premiums with another insurer would have 
been if hed have been able to tell it about the claim.  I dont think  I can fairly make any 
award for Mr Ps loss.
I think that AAs failure to keep Mr P informed about  the claim caused  him some 
inconvenience, as he had to check  what had happened and he made several  phone  calls 
in doing so. I think that fair compensation for that is £100.
Ref: DRN09179435my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint  and 
direct AA Underwriting Limited  to pay him compensation  of £100.
Ref: DRN0917943