K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt recover his car when he made  a theft 
claim under his car insurance policy. His car was sold at auction.
background
Mr L reported his car as stolen to the police at the end of August 2017.  He also reported the 
incident to his insurer, AXA. 
Mr Ls car was found undamaged and recovered to a police compound.  It wasnt recovered 
by AXA so in October  2017 it was sold at auction. Mr L received £3,565.20. This was the 
balance left from the auction price  after compound  storage and auction fees were  deducted.
Mr L complained to AXA as he said it was responsible for collecting his car. AXA said it 
believes Mr L should have  told it hed received a letter from the compound in September  
2017 to say his car was ready for collection. AXA contacted the compound in September 
2017. It says the compound told AXA the car was on hold. This meant it hadnt been 
released for AXA to arrange collection. 
Our investigator thought AXA had acted unfairly. She thought  even if Mr L received a letter  
from the compound  in September 2017,  as hed already given details of the compound  to 
AXA  and AXA said it would  deal with collection  he had no reason to act on the letter. 
AXA didnt agree. So the case  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
I agree  with the investigators findings  and recommendation  to put things right.  
AXAs file notes show that Mr L provided  it with details  of the compound  where his car was 
stored on 18 September 2017. AXA told Mr L that it would contact the compound  and once 
his car was released  it would collect it for an estimate.
The chronology in AXAs original file note shows that between  18 September 2017 and 21 
September 2017 it called  the compound and the note says vehicle on hold.
In a summary note to us - written after the original notes were made  AXA recorded that it 
spoke to the compound on 22 September 2017  and was told the car was on hold. Its 
provided a screenshot to show the date and time of the call was on 22 September  2017.
I dont know what the letter  dated  20 September 2017 from the compound said to Mr L. 
Neither AXA nor we have  seen a copy of it. The police wrote  to Mr L on 13 February 2018. 
They said they wrote  to Mr L on 20 September 2017. As they didnt hear from him, they 
contacted AXA. They said AXA wasnt able to tell them  which office was dealing  with the 
insurance and so Mr Ls car was sold at auction. 
AXAs notes  show that Mr L contacted  it on 30 October 2017. He was very unhappy that his 
car had been  sold as AXA hadnt collected  it. 
Ref: DRN08375322AXA spoke to the compound on the same  day. The compound said they called AXA on 
numerous occasions but couldnt get through.  They  told AXA they were passed  through to 
different departments and nobody could help.
Mr L told us he didnt  receive the letter  dated  20 September 2017.  But AXAs notes show it 
asked Mr L in October 2017 if he received  a letter from the compound a month before and 
he said he did. 
Even so, I dont think it makes a difference. I think it was reasonable for Mr L to assume that 
AXA was dealing with the recovery of his car. It told him it was dealing with recovery  two 
days before  the date of the letter. So I dont think Mr L is at fault because he didnt contact 
AXA again  if or when he received a letter from the compound.
And as AXAs  contact with the compound was after the date of the letter,  I think  the 
information exchanged between AXA and the compound on 22 September  2017 superseded 
any information in the letter to Mr L.
The compound provided AXA with photos  of Mr Ls car when it was recovered  and this 
showed it had no signs of damage. Based on the motor trade  guides,  AXA valued Mr Ls car 
at £9,300. 
As Mr L received £3,565.20 from the police from the sale of his car, I think AXA should  pay 
Mr L the difference of £5,734.80. It should pay interest on this sum at a rate of 8% simple  
interest a year.  AXA shouldnt deduct an excess as this is to compensate Mr L for failing to 
deal with the recovery of his car as promised.  So it doesnt relate  to the claim Mr L made for 
the theft of his car, which  AXA declined.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
Pay Mr L the difference  in the market  value of his car of £5,734.80.
Pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 31 
August 2017 to the date it pays him. 
If AXA considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0837532