K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S were  both members and Trustees  of the SSAS (a small self administered  
scheme - a pension). Their complaint is that in May 2006 Davies  Financial Limited (Davies 
Financial) advised  them to invest in the Stirling Mortimer Majestic Village No 1 Fund which  
they believe was unsuitable for them.
background
Mr and Mrs S were running  their own business.  They were members  of the SSAS.  Mr and 
Mrs S had been advised by Davies Financial for several years.  They met with Davies 
Financial in 2006 and were  advised to invest some  of their pension in the Majestic  Village No 
1 Fund.  They became  concerned that the advice  theyd  been given was unsuitable and Mr S 
complained to the firm on 25 February 2015.  Mr and Mrs S subsequently referred their 
complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 31 May 2019 . In the provisional decision I 
set out the background  to the complaint in full and explained why I believed this complaint 
would fall within my jurisdiction. I also set out why I believed the complaint should be upheld  
and how I thought Davies Financial should  calculate and pay compensation. A copy is 
attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
Davies Financial, through its legal representative,  didnt  agree with my provisional decision. 
It provided a further  submission dated  26 June 2019 . 
This complaint is very similar to another complaint made at the same time about  advice 
Davies Financial gave  to Mr and Mrs S at a later date to invest  part of their SSAS in the 
Stirling Mortimer Cape Verde No 4 Fund  (complaint  reference 17861136). 
The submission dated 26 June 2019  focussed  largely on the complaint about the advice 
given in relation  to the Majestic Village  investment, but said it should be read in conjunction 
with the complaint about the advice given to invest in the Cape Verde Fund.  The issues,  
particularly about  the Ombudsman Services jurisdiction  to consider the complaints, are 
interrelated. I have  therefore considered whats been said about  the Cape Verde complaint 
in this complaint  where appropriate  to do so. 
Davies Financials 26 June 2019 submission said, in summary:
  
Jurisdiction - time limits
The key question was at what point Mr and Mrs S ought to have realised that they had been  
too heavily invested in speculative investments  and that this could have a negative impact  
on them,  such that they would be justified in at least looking into the advice that they had 
received (as per Haward v Fawcetts).  
Davies Financial thought the complaint was time barred under DISP  2.8.2R. It said the 
findings that had been reached previously  on jurisdiction were that Mr and Mrs S didnt 
appreciate how speculative the investments were  and that they would have been reassured 
about problems  with the Stirling Mortimer investments when they arose.  However, it said that 
Ref: DRN03547542my provisional decision now acknowledged that Mr and Mrs S were prepared  to take 
significant risks and that my findings were  based  on the assertion that too high a proportion
of Mr and Mrs S wealth was invested in high-risk investments, rather than the investment 
simply being too speculative.
Davies Financial said Mr and Mrs S would have appreciated the extent of their speculative  
investment exposure  and its potential impact by at least 2009/10 because at that point:
They knew that the value of their pension pot was around £630,000.
They knew that they had 4 UCIS investments. 
They knew that their investments  in the UCISs had been  in excess  of £280,000 and 
therefore comprised  around 44% of their total SSAS.
In 2009 they suffered the total loss of two of the UCISs. This meant over £100,000  or 
16% of their SSAS had been  lost in a short space of time. On 29 June 2009 Davies 
Financial alerted them to the loss of one of the UCISs and e-mailed them about the 
loss of the other in October 2009.  That e-mail was instructive,  as it clearly showed 
that (not even  including  the loss of the first UCIS), the second  failure  had all but 
wiped out the entirety  of any growth  in Mr and Mrs S more  mainstream  pension  
investments.
In the 2010  annual  review Mr and Mrs S were told that, in a climate of significant  
gains (their small investment portfolio grew  by 42%), the loss of the two UCISs had 
actually caused  an overall loss on their pension for the same period. The impact of 
the UCIS  investments was clear.
Therefore, Davies Financial claimed it was evident to Mr and Mrs S that they had a 
concentration in UCIS products and that this could (and did) cause  significant  detriment to 
their pension provision.  It said that was the reasoning behind my provisional finding  to 
uphold the complaint, but it said this fact was known to Mr and Mrs S in 2009/10.  Even 
discounting the further problematic  delays  with the Stirling Mortimer projects in the period up 
to the limitation  cut-off date of 26 February 2012, it said Mr and Mrs S had the requisite 
knowledge of the issues well before 2012. Therefore, the complaint was time barred. 
suitability of advice 
Davies Financial said, in its response  to my provisional decision, that at heart, the 
issue was whether or not Mr and Mrs S understood that they were taking a higher 
risk with the result that they could suffer significant  losses  (or make significant  gains).  
It said that as Mr and Mrs S were  experienced business  people  they would have  
understood this - it didnt think this was "rocket  science".
Davies Financial considered this was borne  out by Mr and Mrs S original complaint. 
It said at no point  had they complained that "this  was a speculative investment  and 
we didn't appreciate that we could suffer a significant loss which  might impact  our 
plans. The actual  complaint  was that they hadn't  appreciated  the investment was not 
regulated (which it had showed wasnt the case). This proved that they understood it 
was a risky investment  (like their previous UCIS investments - some had performed 
Ref: DRN03547543extremely well and some  extremely badly) and that they might  suffer  a significant 
loss.
proportion of assets  to be invested  "speculatively" 
Davies Financial said, in response  to my provisional decision, as long as an investor 
understood the concept of putting  their assets  at higher risk for potentially  higher  
reward (which Mr and Mrs S did), the starting point was that it was up to an investor  
how much  risk they wanted  to take and what proportion  of their assets they wished to 
invest speculatively.
Davies Financial said the 2010 FSA report on UCISs post-dated the advice to invest 
in Majestic Village.  The suitability  of the advice given couldnt, therefore,  be judged  
against guidance that wasnt  in place at the relevant time. The provisional  decision 
referenced the 3% and 5% figures  in the report. This was referred to as being  an 
"implication" of what good practice  was prior to 2010. Such  "implication" was wholly  
unsupportable. It was clear from any proper review of the report that the regulator 
hadnt and wasnt  seeking to suggest  that firms should limit UCIS exposure in every 
case to this sort of level. 
It further said in response that, if the provisional  decision relied  on the 2010 report  it 
was misplaced. The percentage invested  in UCIS following the investment in 
Majestic Village was 16.4% (on reasonable assumptions). Mr and Mrs S understood 
the degree of exposure to high risk investments and were  willing  to have that 
exposure. So even if losses would impact  upon their retirement, advice which  
resulted in a 16.4% UCIS exposure  could  not have been negligent and the FSA 2010 
report did nothing to alter that position.
Davies Financial believed that the UCIS percentage  of 37% quoted in the decision 
wasnt relevant. It didnt take into account the value of Mr and Mrs S total assets 
earmarked for their retirement  (including  their business). The correct figure was the 
16.4% as above.
assessment of Mr and Mrs S financial position
Davies Financial submitted that my provisional  decision appeared contradictory  in 
that on the one hand  it said "it was reasonable for the firm to take into account the 
business and future  planning in assessing  the suitability of its recommendations" but 
on the other said I don't  agree  it's reasonable to assess the amount invested  
speculatively in 2006 against  Mr S's potential  assets at retirement date.  It said if it 
was reasonable  to look at matters going forward  when giving suitable advice, it 
couldnt have  been unreasonable for Davies Financial  to look at Mr and Mrs S plans 
when considering their potential investment.
It didnt understand  my comment about  a starting  position  being "materially  too high". 
It said the intention  to dilute the UCIS  percentage going forward wasnt  the be all 
and end all but it was a valid factor  for them to take into account in assessing  the 
suitability of the investment.
Davies Financial questioned what was "appropriate weight" when taking the value  of 
the business into account. It had no information  as to the later value of, or any sale 
of, the business.  It thought Davies Financial had given the business valuation  
Ref: DRN03547544"appropriate weight". It had been  informed that the business was worth £400,000 (in 
the fact find) but that the intention was ultimately to sell it for somewhere approaching 
£1 million. The franchise had renewed  previously and there were no indications it 
would not do so again. The assertion in my provisional decision that "its value  
reduced over the term of the 5 year franchise" wasnt  accepted  and not relevant. The 
nature of their business meant that even without  the franchise name they could have 
continued successfully.  
Even if the value  of the business  was subject to fluctuations, in the years Davies  
Financial had been advising the clients, the profits  of the business continued on an 
upward trajectory.  The business  value and profitability were not inextricably  linked. It 
was from the profits  (from a turnover  in excess of £1 million)  that further pension  
contributions were anticipated  to be made.
Although the anticipated additional contributions and increased  business value would 
have reduced the percentage of UCIS,  the advice was not dependent on all 
contributions being  made and/or the business  being sold for £1 million, i.e. future 
dilution to 6.9%  was not a pre-requisite for the advice  to be suitable.
impact of loss on Mr and Mrs S retirement
In terms of Mr and Mrs S capacity for loss, Davies Financial had analysed the figures 
and provided a summary and cash-flow  reports which  showed  that even if there was 
no value in the business and all the UCIS  investments failed, Mr and Mrs S would 
have had more  than sufficient retirement  income.  When the business was included  
(even just taking the £400,000 valuation) there  was an even greater  surplus. The 
inference in the provisional decision that Mr and Mrs S couldnt afford to take the risk 
of making the investment was wholly inaccurate.
A telephone log of a call with Mr S in July 2014 said Mr and Mrs S were:
seriously considering  retiring  and he wanted  an indication of what income they 
could receive from their pensions and business  proceeds if they sell It for £300k. I 
estimate approximately £44,000pa net assuming BRT and accounting for his State 
pension, and excluding  the Stirling Mortimer investments. He was pleased with that 
as he still has money  from his mother's estate plus the Swiss  savings,  also they 
could use phased drawdown to maximise the tax efficiency  of their incomes by using 
the TFC each year. My calcs were based  on a 4% income and would rely on taking a 
moderate degree of risk. 
It said the contemporaneous reaction of Mr S showed that, even allowing for a 
discounted sale and the loss of the UCIS investments, he was happy with the 
resulting retirement income.  
what would Mr and Mrs S have  done  if recommended a cautious investment?
Davies Financial didnt think there was any evidence to support the view in my  
provisional decision that if it had recommended that Mr and Mrs S invest cautiously 
they would  have done so. They had an appetite for risk and were prepared to invest  
part of their wealth  in speculative investments. Even when they complained they 
accepted they wanted  a speculative investment. 
Ref: DRN03547545There had been discussions  with Mr and Mrs S about how much  they were  investing 
in speculative investments and the point at which they should change  tack and invest 
more cautiously.  The evidence showed that they were not prepared  to look for 
reduced potential  returns by reducing risk at the point  of this investment; they 
subsequently chose to increase their speculative  investments. It was never  Mr and 
Mrs S intention  to cash in their investments and buy annuities.  So, they needed to 
maintain a diversified  portfolio with an overall moderate degree  of investment risk.
At the point of making  the investment in Majestic Village No 1 Mr and Mrs S had two 
UCIS investments  - in the PFB Gold 7 and Gold 9 funds. Davies Financial said there  
were no problems with those investments and they looked  as if they were on track to 
produce extremely good returns; they subsequently matured  returning around 70% 
and 120% respectively. 
Mr and Mrs S were  happy to speculate  further  on such investments.  And after 
investing in Majestic Village No 1 they had invested  in three further  UCISs. These 
were made following discussions about  the number and amount of speculative  
investments they wanted to make. It was only at the point of the Cape Verde 
investment that Mr and Mrs S (knowing full well what they were invested in) were 
prepared to agree that they should  move to more cautious  investing thereafter. This 
was clearly set out in the Suitability Report  for Cape Verde which  said, " You agreed  
that this was to be the last investment of this nature  with any future pension 
contributions to be invested  in lower risk investmentsIf for any reason you now 
disagree with this please inform me immediately..". Mr and Mrs S took no issue with 
the above.
There was nothing  in the documentation that supported the assumption that if Davies 
Financial had provided more information  to Mr and Mrs S and recommended a 
cautious investment  in 2006  when  they held two UCIS investments  both performing 
well - they would  have sacrificed the potential for higher  returns  and agreed to invest  
in a cautious investment. The contemporaneous  facts and documents positively 
disproved this. And they had previously wanted to invest directly into the overseas  
property in Spain on an off-plan  basis.  Even if they had been  advised to invest  more 
cautiously it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S would have decided they still 
wished to proceed with the investment in Majestic  Village.
redress
There had been lengthy delays in our handling  of the complaint.  It didnt think  that 
Davies Financial should be penalised by it having to pay additional redress up to the 
date of the decision because of these  delays. It didnt think this could be considered  
a "fair outcome".
I sent a letter  to Davies Financial Limited dated  10 September 2019 in order  to outline  my 
views on some of the points theyd made in response to my provisional  decision and to 
provide both parties with a further opportunity  to comment  (a copy was sent to Mr and Mrs 
S). In summary, I said:
Jurisdiction - time limits
I referred back to the broad reasons given in the earlier jurisdiction decisions and my 
provisional decision. I said I thought it was material that Mr and Mrs S had agreed  to take 
Ref: DRN03547546significant risks with these  investments. I didnt think an investor, in that context, would 
expect a smooth ride and would expect some ups and downs. And I didnt think deferrals of 
the redemption  date ought  to have alerted them they had cause for complaint. Theyd been 
told there were certain guarantees that applied if all the properties  werent  sold.  And some  
uncertainty wouldnt be unexpected for an investment presenting appreciable risk.
I accepted that the basis behind my provisional decision to uphold  the complaint had 
changed from those  issued earlier by another ombudsman.
I therefore went on to consider whether  Mr and Mrs S were aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that they were too heavily invested in speculative investments (which 
could have a negative impact on them) more  than three years before the complaint was 
made.
Davies Financial had set out Mr and Mrs S financial  position.  I found that by 2009/2010 Mr 
and Mrs S had got a significant amount of money invested in UCISs. Theyd had the 
experience of two of their UCISs failing completely. But theyd also made money from other  
UCIS investments.
I didnt think Mr and Mrs S were aware or ought reasonably to have become aware that they 
had cause for complaint more than three years before  the complaint was made.
In the circumstances, I didnt think thered been  a trigger for Mr and Mrs S to have taken a 
step back and analysed their overall  position in the way that Davies  Financial  had 
suggested. And I thought it was their total exposure  in the context of their overall 
circumstances that was key  the risks in that overall context and its associated implications. 
I said a willingness to take risks wasnt the same as having the capacity to accept those 
risks. And I didnt think assessing that contextual degree of exposure to risk was 
straightforward for a layman.
I said that part of the skill of an adviser  was in evaluating all the relevant circumstances and 
different pieces of information they were  given to apply appropriate weight to each and 
provide suitable  advice  that reflected their clients financial situation. This was an acquired  
skill gained  through training and experience over time.
I didnt think Mr and Mrs S were sufficiently knowledgeable to have realised they were  over 
exposed to risk in terms of their capacity for loss. And even if I accepted  that merely 
calculating their exposure to UCISs would have given them a reasonable belief they might 
have a problem  and start further investigations (which I didnt  they had both made and lost 
money from UCISs, so I didnt think they would have  thought UCISs in themselves were  a 
problem), I hadnt seen  a reason that would or ought  to have triggered them  to do so. 
I noted the 2010 annual  review the representative  had referred to said,  amongst other 
things:
Your overall SSAS value  has fallen in value due to the failure of the two Pinder  Fry &
Benjamin unit trusts; however good growth on your other pension  investments since
February 2009 has helped soften the blow, resulting in your overall SSAS  value falling from
£633,163 I February  2009 to £617,254 presently; representing a loss of approximately
2.5%.
Ref: DRN03547547I found that Davies Financial had been  advising Mr and Mrs S for a number of years.  I 
thought theyd have a reasonable belief  that the advice theyd been given over that period 
was suitable for them   until something  caused them  to think  otherwise. The report  didnt 
refer to the two Pinder  Fry investments as UCISs. So, I didnt think the report  would have 
caused them  to have suspicions about  UCISs generally. And the overall value of the SSAS 
had only reduced  by about  2.5%. Given they were willing to accept risks, I didnt think  this 
would have prompted a reasonable belief that the advice theyd been given was flawed or 
ought to have alerted them they had cause  for complaint.
I went onto consider other specific points raised  by Mr and Mrs S in making their complaints. 
These included:
the level of commission not being disclosed.  I said on the face of it Mr and Mrs S had 
been alerted to the charges/commission payable.  But in any event, the compensation  
Id proposed in my provisional decision to uphold  the complaint would effectively 
compensate Mr and Mrs S for any commission/ charges paid. So I didnt think  I 
needed to consider  that part of the complaint further.
Mr S had said that he didnt think the firm had examined the costs v benefits  of the 
two pension schemes and thered been  no discussion of the differences  between the 
two contracts. I noted the firm had addressed this point  in its response to the 
complaint and Mr and Mrs S hadnt  specifically referred to that part of their complaint  
on our complaint form or their accompanying letters. I said I didnt think  that part of 
the complaint  had been referred  to us and we hadnt specifically considered  it.
In terms of jurisdiction, I said that I thought what was key wasnt  just when  Mr and Mrs S 
discovered they hadnt been told about  the two issues, but rather  when they became aware 
of the implications of those omissions and had a reasonable belief that it had caused them  
detriment. I noted  Mr and Mrs S had said they werent aware that they had cause to 
complain until another  adviser alerted them to it at the end of 2014. And I hadnt seen any 
persuasive evidence  or reason why they were or ought reasonably  to have become aware  of 
the omissions and the associated implications any earlier.  I thought what  they had said was 
credible, and overall I was satisfied that the complaints had been  made  within the relevant 
timeframes.
impact of loss on Mr and Mrs Ss retirement/cash flow analysis
I noted that the regulator had said capacity for loss referred to an investors ability  to absorb 
falls in the value of their investments. If any loss of capital would have a materially  
detrimental effect on an investors  standard of living, this should  be taken into account in 
assessing the risk that they were  able to take.
 
Id explained in my provisional decision that it was in the context of Mr and Mrs S overall 
circumstances that I didnt think they had the capacity to accept the risks presented 
including their exposure to other assets invested at significant risk such  as equities.  
I wasnt persuaded that the cash-flow  forecasts  provided by Davies Financial showed  that Mr 
and Mrs S had the capacity to accept the losses it claimed.  I thought the calculations were  
useful to show the position in the event that things went well. However, in assessing capacity 
for loss, I thought  consideration also needed  to be given to a situation where things didnt 
turn out favourably. 
Ref: DRN03547548The cash-flow forecast provided had assumed investment returns that mirrored  those for 
cautious managed  funds  starting from 1990.  I said I thought reasonable expectations for 
investment returns had lowered since that time,  particularly in light of the changes in the 
wider economic environment. And that this was reflected in the regulator lowering the rates 
of return it prescribed for illustrations of potential  future returns  for tax exempt investments.
I also said that the forecasting assumed Mr and Mrs S income would continue along  the 
same lines (until retirement)  and that they were able to fund the pension  to the same level.   I 
said the business ongoing success wasnt guaranteed (which  was a foreseeable risk and 
did actually have an impact on future  contributions), and there  was also the risk of the equity 
holding falling in value early in the period in question (sequencing risk).
Overall, I concluded the veracity of the cash-flow forecast depended on the validity  of the 
underlying assumptions  used in it. My view was that the assumptions showed the position in 
favourable circumstances. And I didnt think they could be relied  on to show Mr and Mrs S 
had the capacity to accept  the risks of having around £155,000 in UCIS; £170,000 in equities  
and only about  £90,000 in safer type assets (plus  their business with an uncertain value at 
retirement).
what would Mr and Mrs S have  done  if recommended a cautious investment?
I referred back to my provisional decision where  Id said I was satisfied that if the firm had 
explained all the risks presented by the different  assets Mr and Mrs S held, and that they 
already had an appropriate  proportion  of speculative investments,  they would more  likely 
than not have accepted  advice to invest more cautiously. This was advice from the firm 
theyd engaged professionally. 
Davies Financial was the expert in the matter.  And Mr and Mrs S had followed its 
recommendations on other occasions.  Although theyd subsequently invested in other  
speculative investments this was again  following advice from Davies Financial to do so. I 
said I thought  the index  Id proposed to calculate  compensation  in my provisional decision 
was appropriate  in the circumstances. And in the context of Mr and Mrs S capacity  for risk. I 
said that if either party wished to suggest an alternative for consideration they should do so 
in response to my letter of 10 September 2019. 
Mr and Mrs S said they accepted my findings.  But they said some of Davies  Financials 
statements of fact didnt  match  their recollection of events. They said theyd always  made  it 
clear that as franchise holders they didnt  own any goodwill  in the business,  so the valuation 
of their business was dramatically  overstated. 
I asked for any further evidence or arguments that either party  wanted me to consider before 
I made  my final decision. 
Davies Financials representative provided  a further  submission dated  24 September 2019. 
In summary  it said:
Jurisdiction - time limits
The ombudsmans comments under jurisdiction were generic and didnt hold up to 
scrutiny. Its 26 June 2019 letter  had set out why Mr and Mrs S would have 
understood the degree to which  they were invested in the higher risk investments 
and that these investments could suffer a total loss which  would materially impact  
their investment portfolio. They had been told they had entirely lost their £100,000 
Ref: DRN03547549PFB investments in 2009.  This had wiped out more than 100% of what  would 
otherwise have been significant gains.
Davies Financial said they had met with Mr and Mrs S in February  2010  and 
explained this very fact to them. They followed it up with the 19 April 2010  letter  
which reiterated the PFB losses.  It provided  valuation information showing that, of 
their (reduced) £617,000 pension pot, they still had two of the higher risk 
investments. This clearly exposed them to the same losses, accounting for £182,000  
or 30% of the pension pot. It said there  couldnt  be any argument that Mr and Mrs S 
understood in 2010 that they had this exposure. On any reading, it would show  any 
investor that they were exposed, had suffered a big loss and might  therefore suffer  
more. 
It said my suggestion that I dont think assessing that contextual degree of exposure 
to risk is straightforward for a layman was wholly misguided.  It said this wasnt  some 
technical portfolio  analysis  exercise  it was simply understanding that a big chunk of 
their savings  had been  lost and another big chunk was similarly exposed.  It said Mr 
and Mrs S knew this and so any claim/decision  that had this issue  as its basis had to 
be time-barred. 
It said the law on limitation  required there  to be something that might  cause  an investor to be 
justified in looking at the advice received. It said it was difficult to see how much more  of a 
trigger was required than the total loss in quick succession of two higher risk / UCIS  
investments comprising a sizeable  chunk of Mr and Mrs S pension pot, with them still being 
exposed to two similar investments. It said whether or not the 2010 annual  review referred to 
the PFB investments as UCISs was irrelevant. It didnt agree they wouldnt  have  realised 
there was a problem  earlier.  
impact of Loss
Davies Financial said that my provisional  decision  had assumed, with no analysis 
whatsoever, that Mr and Mrs S couldnt afford to lose the relevant investments. Davies 
Financial had produced  properly  worked cash-flow  forecasts which were effectively being 
dismissed as being too favourable.
They said that the cash-flow  forecasts were perfectly valid and in accordance  with the 
forecasts that could  legitimately have been  run in 2006. The index as from 1990 included  
losses in 9 out of 29 years. This compared to 3 out of 12 years  when  run from 2006 (i.e. a 
greater percentage  of years suffered losses). The growth rates were not unreasonable  to be 
applied in 2006. It was reasonable to allow for further contributions being made (the 
regulators rules allowed for this).  It said the fact Mr and Mrs S actually reduced or stopped 
contributions wasnt  relevant and applied hindsight. The reference  to sequencing risk wasnt  
understood given  that Mr and Mrs S were  invested  and not taking an income  from the 
pension pot.
Davies Financial said if advice in the context of such investments had to be given on the 
assumption that a customers business went downhill; that their income  significantly  reduced  
and that their other investments  crashed,  then no customer would ever have sufficient 
capacity for loss and no sensible investment advice could ever be given.  
It didnt agree with the assumption  that anything related to equities meant  high risk. It said 
Mr and Mrs S had a core portfolio which was invested on an appropriate balanced basis, 
Ref: DRN035475410including the equities. Separately, Mr and Mrs S chose to invest additional sums on a higher 
risk basis  (which they understood) in the hope  of generating a higher return. They had a 
mainstream core and a separate higher  risk part, which was affordable. Nothing in those 
arrangements was unsuitable.
Davies Financial said that I had ignored the call log evidence  (set out earlier)  it had referred  
to in its 26 June  2019 letter. It said Mr S contemporaneous reaction as described    puts 
paid to any notion that they were not in a position  to speculate with a decent part of their 
pension funds and still live the lifestyle in retirement  that they wanted. They were and they 
did.
recommendation of cautious investments
Davies Financial said that I had failed to give reasons  why Mr and Mrs S would have 
accepted advice to invest more cautiously. Davies Financial had various discussions with 
them about  how much  risk they were taking and how much exposure they wanted to higher 
risk investments. It was evident (and the advisers  clear recollection) that he flagged  up the 
extent of their higher  risk investment exposure on numerous occasions, in the context of 
considering reducing  that exposure. This was clear from the suitability report  for the Cape 
Verde investment. This highlighted how the speculative nature of such  investments had 
been discussed in detail , resulting in the conclusion:
You agreed that this was to be the last investment  of this nature with any future pension 
contributions to be invested  in lower risk investments..
It said the contemporaneous evidence was that these issues were flagged  up by the adviser 
to Mr and Mrs S. But that they wished to proceed nonetheless with the higher  risk 
investments including Majestic Village  No.1 (at which point their other such investments 
were performing well, so their insistence  on proceeding wasnt surprising).  There  was 
contemporaneous evidence of discussions taking place and of Mr and Mrs S wanting to 
make the higher risk investments come  what may. And there was no contemporaneous 
evidence suggesting  that Mr and Mrs S would have been minded to change their approach. 
It said Mr and Mrs S would have made  the same decision  to invest  in Majestic Village No 1 
even if Davies Financial  had given advice in line with my suggestion. So, there was no 
causative link between  the advice given and the losses claimed by Mr and Mrs S.
redress
As Mr and Mrs S had said they were seeking redress  equivalent to what they would have 
received had they been invested in a high interest  cash fund, then if any redress was due, 
Davies Financial said it should be calculated on that basis. 
Davies Financial and its representative provided  a further submission dated  8 October 2019  
in response to my request  for information  on Mr and Mrs S overall attitude to risk. In 
summary they said:
There was no overall  attitude to risk established for Mr and Mrs S. It said this wasnt 
uncommon in 2006. It said Mr and Mrs S had different attitudes to risk depending on 
the purpose of each  different investment. This included a conservative  attitude to risk 
(ATR) (1/5) for a £50,000 investment.  A balanced ATR (3/5) for a further £50,000 
investment. A cautious / balanced  ATR (2/5 to 3/5) for certain pension contributions. 
Ref: DRN035475411And a speculative ATR (5/5) for certain  pension funds which ended up being  invested 
in the Majestic Village  Investment.   
The 2007 Fact Find also clearly  recorded  the desire of Mr and Mrs S to make a 
further investment  with a speculative ATR (5/5). The notes recorded how keen  they 
were to make this further investment. It was clear that suggesting  a lower risk 
investment would have made no difference whatsoever to the outcome. Such advice 
would not have been taken given Mr and Mrs S strong wish to seek a higher return 
on a small part of their wealth.
Although I had said the investment  returns used  in the cash-flow reports from 1990-
2019 werent indicative of the financial environment from 2006, the average 
annualised return net of all fees was only 4.7%. The return was the same  using  a 
shortened time horizon of the last 10 years. 
Davies Financial provided  further  cash-flow forecasts. These were to show that from 
Mr and Mrs S financial  position  in 2015  (when they moved  advisers),  they had 
sufficient pensions  and savings to see them comfortably through  their retirement. It 
said the reports showed it was impossible to justify upholding any complaint on 
the basis of lack of capacity to sustain losses, when we have proved that the advice 
given at the time and the investment returns achieved from 2006/7  up to 2015  and 
beyond, were at minimum in line with the original  expectations, and in fact possibly  
exceeded those,  given the actual  returns were far higher than anticipated.  It said Mr 
and Mrs S hadnt been disadvantaged and should be in a position to provide for 
their retirement needs in line with the original  goals.
It said Mr and Mrs S were able to understand the Majestic Village No 1 investment. 
They had the capacity to sustain full losses with the aim of higher returns in return for 
the risks taken. Full explanations  were  given about  the investment which had all been 
evidenced in the telephone logs, emails reports and literature it had provided.
It said Giving  financial advice isnt about  selling products  - its about getting  to know 
your clients  as best you can (assuming they tell you everything) and then using  your 
best judgement  to help them achieve  their goals. Sometimes  this means  protecting  
them from themselves  by advising restrictions - as I did for these clients,  as when I 
feel even though they may have the appetite for more risk, its also my job to help 
them understand why being too greedy can go against them.
Theyd got to know the clients over a long period  of time, both from a personal and 
financial perspective. Davies Financial had used  their best judgement  to help Mr and 
Mrs S achieve their goals.  However, they believed I had ignored the 
contemporaneous evidence to simply say I felt Mr and Mrs S would have done  
something differently.
Theyd provided details of where Mr and Mrs S had withheld information from the 
authorities which they said showed  they would do so where it suited  them financially. 
This showed their evidence was unreliable whereas  everything  it had said had been 
backed up by documentation that was irrefutable. 
Ref: DRN035475412I sent a further  letter  to both parties  dated  12 March 2020. I said that in reviewing all the 
evidence and arguments I thought there  were  further issues  that needed to be considered  
before I could make a final decision.  
Jurisdiction - Eligible Complainant
When the complaint  was first made Davies  Financial said it thought the correct  complainant
should be Mr and Mrs S business  and not Mr and Mrs S. And it didnt think  the business Ltd 
was an eligible complainant. It noted that an eligible complainant could be a micro 
enterprise. But that the definition of micro enterprise  was an enterprise which:
Employs fewer than 10 persons;  and
Has a turnover  or annual balance sheet that does not exceed 2 million euros.
It said although it didnt  know  the turnover of Mr and Mrs S business, it certainly employed in 
excess of 10 persons. Davies Financial said it was clear that Mr and Mrs S were concerned
about a significant corporation tax liability. And they wanted to ascertain ways  in which they
could minimise their business tax exposure whilst also accessing ways to maximise the
growth potential on capital. It said the investments  in the schemes were undertaken for the
benefit of the company.
One of our ombudsmen, Louise Wilson, noted  these concerns in her provisional  jurisdiction
decision of 19 January 2016.  She said Davies Financial had originally argued that Mr and
Mrs S werent eligible complainants, but that it hadnt pursued this argument  in its
further correspondence. She said she did think they were eligible should there be any
continuing concerns.
The relevant  parts of DISP Rule 2.7.3 at the time provided, in summary, that:
An eligible  complainant must be a person that is:
A consumer
A micro enterprise
A trustee  of a trust which has a net asset  value of less than £1 million at the time the 
complainant refers the complaint to the respondent.
And the relevant parts of DISP Rule 2.7.6  at the time provided:
To be an eligible  complainant a person  must also have a complaint which arises from
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
the complainant  is (or was) a customer,  payment service user or electronic money  
holder of the respondent;
Based on the facts  my view was that Mr and Mrs S were the Directors of their business, the 
Trustees of the SSAS and they were consumers.
The complaint letters to the firm were from Mr and Mrs S. And our complaint form was also 
signed and completed by Mr and Mrs S. Having looked through  the documentation  from the 
time I noted  that:
Ref: DRN035475413Majestic Village
The Confidential Financial  Planner  that recorded  details of a meeting on 20 April 2006  had
Client 1 as Mr S and Client 2 as Mrs S.
Under recommendations it listed under  Owner  [Mr S] and went  on to describe the
Majestic Village investment of 76k Approx.  It went on to list [Mrs S] - and recommend  the
EPP increase. It also listed [name of Mr and Mrs S business] and made two separate  
recommendations.
The fact find was signed by Mr and Mrs S on 20 April 2006.
The letter dated  11 May 2006  was addressed  to Mr and Mrs S. It started:
Dear Mr and Mrs S
I am writing following our recent meetings where we discussed your pension  requirements.
Please find enclosed my Suitability Reports,  detailing my advice relating to the 
recommended contract, which I would ask you to read carefully, ensuring you understand
fully the details herein.
The Suitability Report  dated 11 May 2006  was headed Mr and Mrs S SSAS & Company 
Investments.
Under Objectives it said
It is both your aims to increase the value of your assets through  investment in a variety of
asset types.
Whilst the assets in your SSAS are earmarked,  i.e they are either  in [Mr S] or [Mrs S]  
names, you class this as joint funds  and assess the investment of each element according to 
your joint risk profiles.
And under recommendations it said
[Mr S]  [name of provider] Executive Pension Plan
It went onto recommend that Mr S encash  his pension funds currently invested  in
the [name of provider]  Executive Pension and reinvest the proceeds into the Majestic 
Village No 1 fund. This investment  will still be an asset of the SSAS and will therefore 
continue to benefit from the tax beneficial investment rules. There  will be no loss incurred 
upon switching  from your [name of provider] policy.
With regard to your regular monthly premium I recommended you redirect these to [Mrs S] 
existing EPP with [name of provider], therefore increasing the contributions by £800pm. This
will help equalise [Mrs S] pension benefits  within the SSAS, which  are presently  significantly
less than yours.
[Mrs S]
As mentioned above I have recommended the redirection  of the contributions of £800  per
Ref: DRN035475414month that were currently being invested into [Mr S] [ name of pension  provider]  Pension  
and I have recommended  that this money be invested into your [name  of pension provider]  
Plan to equalise your benefits.
The Application form for Majestic Village included:
NB Application to be made in the individual names  of the Trustees  of the SSAS.
Under Details of Applicants it listed the Independent Trustee and Mr and Mrs S. And
the applicants  signatures were  Mr and Mrs S and the Independent  Trustee.
So, the funding  for the investment in Majestic Village was sourced from the disinvestment
from the EPP (rather than Mr and Mrs S business). In my letter of 12 March  2020 I said I 
wasnt persuaded that the advice that was the subject  of the complaint (about Majestic 
Village) was given  to Mr and Mrs S business. I said my view was the advice was clearly 
given to Mr and Mrs S. And I thought,  given the Trustees were  the true owners of the SSAS  
and made  the investment decisions,  it was given to Mr and Mrs S in their capacity as 
Trustees of the SSAS. I was also satisfied that the complaint arose  from matters  relevant to 
the Trustees (Mr and Mrs S) being  the firms customer.
Mr and Mrs S were  both members and Trustees  of the SSAS.  I thought the complaints 
should be set up in the name of the Trustees  of the SSAS.
I went on to consider whether a complaint made by the Trustees at that stage had a material  
impact on our jurisdiction to consider the complaint.  The value of the SSAS wasnt  above the 
relevant £1 million net asset value at the time the complaint  was made to Davies Financial. 
And the advice was given to Mr and Mrs S as the customers and I think  they had a dual role 
 as members and Trustees.  I was satisfied the Trustees were  eligible complainants.
Jurisdiction-time limits 
In my letter of 12 March 2020 I went on to consider whether the complaints made  by Mr and 
Mrs S as Trustees would  have any other  implications on our jurisdiction  to consider the 
complaint/and or its merits. In particular, should  the fact that Mr and Mrs S were Trustees 
have given them knowledge that they should or ought to have had over and above what 
would be expected of members (and ordinary retail  investors).
Section 247 of the Pensions  Act 2004  set out the Requirement for knowledge and
understanding for individual trustees  of occupational pension  schemes.
I thought of particular relevance was that it required  individuals to whom the section applied 
to have knowledge and understanding of the law relating to pensions  and trusts,  and the
principles relating to the investment of the assets of the scheme.
However, The Occupational Pension  Schemes  (Trustees' Knowledge and Understanding)
Regulations 2006 provided  exceptions  for Trustees  of small schemes. Part 2 provided  that
the requirements imposed by sections 247(3)  and (4) of the 2004 Act didnt apply  to
Trustees of schemes  with fewer than twelve members where all the members were  Trustees
of the scheme  and where:
(a) the provisions of the scheme provide that any decision  made  by the trustees  is
made by the unanimous agreement of the trustees  who are members  of the
scheme
Ref: DRN035475415The Trustees Duties Discretions  and Powers were set out on page 12 of the Trust deed
dated 19 September 2003. Section b of Part 6, headed The Trustees Duties  Discretions
and Powers provided:
All decisions made by the Trustees must be unanimous and they may by unanimous
decision delegate any or all of their powers (with  the exception of their powers relating to
the winding  up of the Scheme which powers  must be exercised unanimously) under the
Scheme to one of several of their number or such other person or body as may
unanimously be agreed  from time to time by the Trustees on terms and conditions  decided
by them  at their discretion .
So, I didnt think Mr and Mrs S (in their role of Trustees) were obliged  to meet the
requirements as outlined in Section 247 of the Pensions Act 2004.
One of the primary  responsibilities for Mr and Mrs S, acting in their role as Trustees
of the SSAS, was to exercise  reasonable skill and care and to take advice from an
appropriately qualified  person before making an investment decision. This is what they did
when seeking  advice from Davies Financial. I was satisfied that it was reasonable for them 
to rely on the advice  that Davies Financial had given them  and that the advice  would be 
suitable for their circumstances.
I also considered whether  this was a new complaint (as made by the Trustees) and 
therefore, had been referred to us outside of the relevant time limits. The DISP Rules didnt 
require that a complainant state  the capacity in which they were making their complaint 
when making the complaint to the firm or referring it to the ombudsman  service.
I said it wasnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs S complained to the firm and referred the matter  to
the ombudsman  service (albeit the firm believed the complaint hadnt been made within the
relevant time limits for the reasons it had already given at length). Mr and Mrs S were both 
members and Trustees of the SSAS. So, I thought when Mr and Mrs S made their 
complaints to the firm in February 2015 it stopped  time for Mr and Mrs S both as members 
and Trustees.
The Trustees were  eligible complainants.  The complaint made to the firm by letter  dated  25 
February 2015 and subsequently referred  to the ombudsman service  was made by Mr and 
Mrs S as both members and Trustees. There was no material impact on our jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint.
In my letter dated 10 September 2019 I referred to Mr S original complaint letter in
which he said:
I do not believe that you have examined  the costs and benefits  of the two pension
schemes. There is no discussion of the differences between the two contracts in your
suitability letter.
I noted that the firm had addressed this point in its response to the complaint and Mr and
Mrs S hadnt  specifically referred  to that part of their complaint on our complaint form
or their accompanying letters. I said that although that didnt preclude us from considering it,
my understanding was that this part of the complaint hadnt been referred to us. And I
hadnt specifically  considered it.
Ref: DRN035475416I went on to consider whether that specific part of the complaint  about the EPP would have 
had an impact on our jurisdiction to consider Mr and Mrs S central complaint about the
suitability of the advice to invest in Majestic Village. And I set out the reasons I didnt think  it 
had an impact.
In my letter of 12 March 2020, I said Id given this issue some further thought. In particular, 
although Mr and Mrs S only referred  to the costs and benefits of the two pension  schemes 
not being examined and there was no discussion  about the differences,  this might 
reasonably have been interpreted as a complaint about the suitability of the advice to 
disinvest from the EPP itself. The original complaint letter said Please find attached  a copy 
of my original letter of complaint to Davies Financial. And as I have noted above, their 
complaint letter did refer to the EPP.
I said I thought I needed  to consider  whether, by limiting the scope of the complaint and not
considering the suitability  of the advice to disinvest from the EPP, I could properly decide on
the overall suitability  of the advice to invest in Majestic Village. The advice  to disinvest from
the EPP was intrinsically linked to the advice about  Majestic Village; it provided the funding
for the investment.
I thought this was relevant because:
I needed to consider  whether the encashment of the EPP (which  brought about the 
failed investment) may have at some point led to Mr and Mrs S gaining a reasonable 
belief that the advice  theyd been  given was flawed  at an earlier date than I had 
previously identified.
I also needed to consider  whether  I could  decide what  was fair and reasonable 
compensation without  taking  into account  the disinvestment  from the EPP.
I said Id seen no persuasive evidence that the advice to disinvest from the EPP caused any
loss to Mr and Mrs S in itself; the EPP didnt appear to have  any particular features
or benefits that were lost on disinvestment.
Id also seen no persuasive evidence that Mr and Mrs S were aware or ought reasonably to 
have become aware that they had cause for complaint about the advice they were given to 
invest in Majestic Village (or Cape Verde)  earlier, because  of the disinvestment from the 
EPP in itself. Id not seen  any evidence  of a trigger (in terms of disinvesting from the EPP)  
that would  have alerted them they had cause  for complaint about it.
For the reasons  Id explained in my provisional  decision and letter dated 10 September
2019, I thought  Mr and Mrs S should  have been  advised to reduce exposure  to
risk given the risks that their other investments already presented. Whilst it was likely Mr
S could  have switched  to a range of funds presenting less risk in the EPP,  it wasnt  
possible to say exactly which combination of funds  this would have been into. In those
circumstances, I thought it was reasonable to use an index as a proxy for the returns  that 
might have been achieved if a suitable  combination of funds had been  recommended from 
the outset.
So I was satisfied the redress I said Id intended  to award in my provisional decision was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Redress
Ref: DRN035475417Given that the complaints were made by the Trustees, it was my view that any redress 
should therefore be payable to the Trustees  of the SSAS. In my letter  of 12 March  2020, I 
went on to set out how redress should be paid.
I said if there was a loss, Davies Financial  Limited  should pay such amount as may be 
required into the SSAS  so as to increase its value  by the amount of the compensation and 
any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax 
relief.
However, I said compensation shouldnt be paid into the SSAS if it conflicted with any 
existing law, protection or allowance. It may also not be possible to pay the compensation 
into the SSAS. If that was the case,  I said it should  pay that amount direct to Mr and Mrs S 
as the Trustees.   But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would  have provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid by Mr and Mrs S (as ultimately  they were 
the members and benefits from the SSAS  would have been  paid to them and taxable  in their 
hands). Mr S was likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement (as was Mrs S), so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax, applied to 75% of the compensation 
given that 25% would have been  payable as tax free cash.
The representative had also said that Davies Financial shouldnt  be penalised by having  to
pay additional redress up to the date of a decision because  of our delays. I said there  have 
been delays for which I apologised to both parties.  However, whilst  Davies Financial was 
clearly entitled to wait for the outcome of our investigation it could also have settled the 
matter when Mr and Mrs S complained to it or any time after. It was, in my opinion,  Davies 
Financial that provided the unsuitable  advice and caused the losses that flowed from that 
advice. The redress would reflect the returns provided by the index and these could rise or 
fall over the period depending on market  conditions, putting Mr and Mrs S back  into the 
position they would otherwise have been in but for the firms unsuitable advice.  I thought it 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that the comparison was carried out as at 
the date of my final decision.
Overall, therefore, I didnt think the issues Id identified changed the findings outlined
in my provisional decision.  I was satisfied the complaint could be made by the Trustees of 
the SSAS.  That they were eligible  complainants and had made their complaints in time (for 
the same  reasons that I thought Mr and Mrs S complaints had been made in time). And any 
compensation should be awarded to the Trustees.
I was also satisfied that Mr and Mrs S, (the Trustees) didnt refer a complaint to us
about the suitability of the advice to disinvest from the EPP.  And that I could decide the
complaint fairly and reasonably without  considering  the suitability of that advice.
Davies Financials representative provided  a further  submission dated  31 March 2020 . It 
said, in summary:
Jurisdiction- eligible complainant
Mr and Mrs S had brought  their complaints in a personal capacity  namely as 
beneficiaries of the SSAS. The complaints, however, had to be made by them as 
Trustees of the SSAS.
Ref: DRN035475418The capacity in which a complaint  was brought to the Ombudsman Service  was 
relevant. Two Trustees (Mr and Mrs S) had brought complaints not as Trustees, but 
as members/beneficiaries  of the SSAS.
I was referred to the Statement of Grounds in a judicial review  challenge  to an ombudsmans 
decision in a broadly similar  complaint  back in 2017. Quoting from the Statement of Grounds  
drafted by Counsel in that previous case it was submitted that:
(1)The issue is whether or not the term eligible complainant , properly construed,  
requires not only that a complainant  be capable of bringing a claim in the correct 
capacity, but does in fact bring it in that capacity.
(2) The meaning of eligible complainant is a matter of jurisdiction (s.226(2)(a) and (6); 
DISP 2.2.1(3), 2.7.1). It is an issue of law which is for the Court, not the 
Ombudsman, to determine: R (Chancery (UK) LLP) v Financial Ombudsman Service 
[2015] EWHC 407 (Admin) per Ouseley J at 66. 
(3)The conclusion that it did not matter what capacity the trustees  thought they were 
bringing the complaint was an error of law. The capacity in which  a complainant 
brought a complaint was plainly relevant  to whether  or not the complainant was 
eligible, because:
It was contrary  to the natural and ordinary meaning of the word  eligible" for it to 
be used to refer to a person acting in a capacity in which,  because  they were  not 
clients, they had no legal right to bring a complaint  against a firm.
A logical consequence of a single beneficiary-trustee being eligible" to make  a 
complaint, even where the Trustees more generally hadnt permitted it, would 
run contrary  to the likely terms of any trust with multiple Trustees who are likely 
to require either unanimity or a majority  vote in order to be able to act. In this 
case unanimity was required as provided  in Clause 10.7.2 of the Trust Deed.
The DISP rules  themselves defined  eligible complainant" by reference to 
capacity. DISP  2.7.6 expressly states  that to be an eligible  complainant  a 
person must also have  a complaint which arises from matters relevant to one or 
more of the following relationships with the respondent. A key defining 
characteristic of the following matters included the capacity  of the complainant:
(4) the complainant  is a beneficiary of, or has a beneficial interest  in, a personal 
pension scheme  or stakeholder pension scheme;
(13) the complainant is a beneficiary  under a trust or estate of which the 
respondent is trustee or personal representative;
There could be no clearer indication that capacity was relevant to the eligibility  of 
a complainant.
The irrelevance of capacity argument would face difficulties where  a complaint 
was made by a party  in a capacity where  the firm didnt owe them any 
contractual, tortious or statutory duty of care. The firm could reject the complaint 
on the grounds it owed  the complainant no duty. However, the complainant could 
bring another complaint  to the ombudsman service changing their capacity to 
trustee, even though the firm had acted reasonably in responding that it had no 
Ref: DRN035475419duty. The firm wouldnt have had the chance  to properly respond contrary  to the 
complaint resolution  rules  and may have arguably breached  some  of the rules.
Such an interpretation would be contrary to the aim of resolving  complaints  in the 
Internal Complaints Process and minimizing the number  of complaints referred 
to the ombudsman, and lead to unfair  results.
If it was said that the complainant would be redirected back to the firm to 
complain in the correct  capacity the relevant time limits would apply, with the 
complaint being made as at the relevant date it was made in the correct 
capacity. Otherwise  the protection  offered to respondents by the time limits 
would be lost.
It was clear that Mr and Mrs S were bringing  their complaint in their personal  
capacities as beneficiaries of the SSAS. They did not complain as Trustees or 
about losses to the SSAS. It referred  to several  documents to support this 
conclusion. It said our complaint form was very clear saying if youre 
complaining on behalf of a business,  charity  or trust please fill in these details.  
This would  have been completed  if they were complaining on behalf of the Trust.
There was no evidence that Mr and Mrs S had any authority to bring  a complaint 
as Trustees. In the absence of provisions in the Trust Deed any decisions by the 
Trustees had to be on a unanimous basis. If they did not have all the Trustees 
agreement that would  leave no doubt  the complaint was brought  as beneficiaries  
and they werent  eligible complainants.
As they did not bring their complaint as Trustees  any complaint now brought  as Trustees 
would be time barred. 
In summary,  Davies Financial said that the correct interpretation of eligible complainant  
was that the complainant could only be eligible if and when they brought  the complaint in the 
correct capacity. If they subsequently re-stated the capacity  in which the complaint was 
brought the relevant date for the time limit rules in DISP 2.8.2 was the date on which  the 
complaint was made in the correct  capacity, and so became an eligible complainant , not 
before.
I sent another letter to both parties  dated 23 October 2020. In response  to the further  points 
raised about eligibility I referred back to the relevant DISP Rules.  
Jurisdiction- eligible complainant 
DISP 2.7 (at the time) provided:
DISP 2.7.1R A complaint  may only be dealt with under the Financial  Ombudsman  Service
if it is brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant.
DISP 2.7.2R A complaint may be brought on behalf  of an eligible complainant (or a
deceased person  who would have  been  an eligible complainant) by a person authorised by
the eligible  complainant or authorised by law. It is immaterial whether the person authorised 
to act on behalf of an eligible complainant is himself an eligible complainant.
Ref: DRN035475420DISP2.7.3R An eligible  complainant must be a person that is:
 (4) a trustee of a trust which has a net asset value of less than £1 million at the time the
complainant refers the complaint to the respondent
DISP 2.7.6R To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which
arises from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships  with the
respondent:
 
the complainant  is (or was) a customer of the respondent.
I said I agreed that the question of whether or not a person  was an eligible complainant  
within the meaning of DISP 2.7 was a question of law: R (Chancery (UK) LLP) v FOS [2015] 
EWHC 407 (Admin)  at [64]-[72]; R (Bluefin Insurance Services  Ltd) v FOS [2014] EWHC 
3413 (Admin),  [2015] Bus LR 656, [2015] Lloyds Rep IR 457 at [72].
I said the question  of eligibility  was to be determined objectively therefore,  and not by 
reference to the capacity  in which a complainant thought, said or failed to say in what 
capacity he or she was making a complaint.
In R (Bluefin Insurance Services Ltd) v FOS [2014] EWHC 3413 (Admin), [2015]  Bus LR
656, [2015] Lloyds Rep IR 457, the Court had to consider whether the complainant  was a
consumer, and thus an eligible complainant, within  the meaning of DISP 2.7.3R(1). A
consumer was defined  in the FCA Handbook Glossary  as any natural person acting for
purposes outside his trade, business or profession.  Wilkie  J at [124]-[125]  concluded that
the complainant  had been acting for the purposes  of his trade, business or profession,
notwithstanding that he had made his complaint in a personal  capacity:
124. In my judgment,  looking  at the purposes  for which  Mr Lochner was acting in making
his complaint to FOS, there is no proper basis on which  FOS could have concluded that his
purposes were outside his trade,  business, or profession. On the contrary, the subject
matter of his complaint was wholly concerned with the potential loss arising  from lack of
insurance cover in respect  of a liability which he had incurred in the course of his trade,
business, or profession.
125. In that context,  the fact that, under the D&O policy, he was a beneficiary  in respect of
his personal loss and that he, therefore,  made  his complaint to FOS in his personal
capacity in respect of that personal  loss, could not be considered  to be sufficient to cause
him to fall within the definition of a consumer:  a person  acting for purposes outside his
trade, business or profession. In my judgment, his complaint  to FOS was inextricably
linked with his trade,  business, or profession,  in respect of which  he was potentially
personally liable for alleged  wrongful acts.
The objective jurisdictional criteria in DISP 2 relevant  here were:
There must have been a complaint.  It wasnt in dispute that the complaints received 
by Davies Financial  dated 25 February 2015  were complaints.
At the time of making the complaint, the complainant must  have been  a person falling 
within one of the categories  specified in DISP 2.7.3R.  Category 4 was a trustee of a 
trust which had a net asset value of less than £1 million at the time the complainant  
referred the complaint to the respondent. Mr and Mrs S were both Trustees of
Ref: DRN035475421the SSAS. Its net asset value was less than £1 million.
The complaint  must  have arisen  from matters relevant to one or more  of the 
relationships set out in DISP 2.7.6R. One of the relationships was the complainant  is 
(or was) a customer.of the respondent. The complaint arose  from the advice given 
to Mr and Mrs S. They were customers of Davies Financial. Mr and Mrs S were  both 
members and Trustees of the SSAS. However,  in making investment decisions they 
were acting  in their capacity as Trustees and had the necessary  relationship.
The complaint  must  also have  been  referred to the respondent within the relevant 
time limits. The firm disputed that the complaint made in February 2015 was in time  
irrespective of what capacity the complaint was brought.   I was satisfied that the 
complaint was made in time for the reasons I had outlined  in detail previously.
The suitability reports were headed Mr and Mrs S. The application forms were signed by 
them in their capacity  as Trustees. It was ultimately  Mr and Mrs S decision (as Trustees) as 
to how to invest (with Davies Financials advice). Whilst I accepted that there was some  
overlap and Mr and Mrs S were  being advised as directors, members and Trustees, I was 
satisfied the advice about investing in Majestic Village was given to them as both members 
and Trustees. And that their complaint arose from matters  relevant to the Trustees  (Mr and 
Mrs S) being the firms  customer.
I said there was no implied requirement in DISP 2.7 that the complainant must have correctly 
identified or stated that he or she brought the complaint in a capacity that fell within DISP 
2.7.3R/2.7.6R: 
There was no reference  at all to capacity within DISP 2.7.
There was no basis for reading  an implied  requirement regarding capacity into the 
definition of eligible  complainant, in circumstances where  DISP 2.7 defined  eligible  
complainant in detail.  It could  have included a reference  to capacity if it had been 
intended, but it didn't do so.
Such an implied requirement would be contrary to DISP  2.7 which  set out objective 
jurisdictional criteria.  An implied requirement of the type contended would produce 
unfairness for complainants.
DISP 2.7.6R (4) and (13) did not define eligible complainant by reference to 
capacity, nor did they require complainants  to identify or state the capacity in which  
they were complaining.  The sub-paragraphs  set out objective  criteria that were either 
satisfied or not satisfied.
A requirement to state in what capacity a complaint was being made was 
inconsistent with the statutory intention and policy  behind  the ombudsman  scheme. It 
was designed  to be relatively informal and to allow complainants  to seek  redress with 
the minimum of complexity and without necessarily needing  legal advice or 
representation. There would be obvious  potential unfairness to complainants  if DISP 
were found to contain additional, implied  requirements. An ordinary  member  of the 
public who wasnt legally qualified or represented might  well not appreciate (for 
example) the distinction between the capacities  of Trustees and  
members/beneficiaries of a SSAS.
Ref: DRN035475422There was potential  for unfairness  to complainants  if such a requirement existed.  
Conversely, the lack of any unfairness  to Davies Financial underlined the fact that 
there was no practical need  or requirement of fairness to imply such a requirement.
I didnt agree with the difficulties alleged in relation  to the complaint resolution rules 
in DISP 1. 
Dismissal
I said any perceived unfairness to a firm created by a complainant  bringing a second 
complaint about  the same  matter could  be resolved  through the application of DISP 3.3.4R. 
This provided (at the relevant time):
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits if he 
considers that: and it goes onto list a number of grounds for dismissal  including:
(2) the complaint  is frivolous or vexatious; or
(6) the subject  matter of the complaint has previously  been considered  or excluded 
under the Financial Ombudsman Service, or a former scheme (unless material new 
evidence which the Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has 
subsequently become  available  to the complainant);
(16) it is a complaint  which:
(a) involves (or might involve) more than one eligible complainant; and
(b) has been referred without the consent  of the other complainant or complainants;
and the Ombudsman considers that it would be inappropriate to deal with
the complaint  without  that consent;
(17) There are other compelling reasons why it is inappropriate  for the complaint  to 
be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
These were  only some  of the grounds for dismissal.  However, they demonstrated the
ombudsman had a wide discretion to dismiss a complaint where he considered it appropriate
to do so. DISP provided a mechanism to avoid any potentially perverse outcomes from
applying the strict eligibility  criteria  outlined  in DISP Rules  2.7.3 and 2.7.6 - they were rules
and not guidance.
DISP 2.7.9R also provided a list of exceptions who werent  eligible complainants.  Mr and
Mrs S as Trustees werent  on that list.
In its letter  of 31 March  2020, Davies Financials representative had also questioned whether 
Mr and Mrs S had the authority to make  a complaint as Trustees  in February  2015.
I said DISP provided clear rules about the requirements for eligible complainants. Nowhere 
in the rules did it say that a complainant had to state in what capacity they were complaining  
when they made a complaint. And the rules also did not expressly provide for an 
investigation of a trustees eligibility to make  their complaint in accordance with the Trusts 
rules. I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs S satisfied the DISP  eligibility  rules  whether or not the 
other Trustees agreed or joined in.
Ref: DRN035475423I said whether the other Trustee (the firm of Independent Trustees who were  Trustees  at the 
time the complaints were  made) had specifically  given  their agreement to the complaint 
wasnt relevant in determining Mr and Mrs S eligibility to complain as Trustees. However,  it 
was relevant in deciding  whether it was appropriate  to dismiss the complaint without 
considering its merits.
I said there could be many reasons why it may or may not be appropriate to dismiss a 
complaint where  all the eligible complainants werent all joined in. In the case of a trust, it 
may not be appropriate  to consider a complaint made by an otherwise eligible trustee where  
there may be a dispute between the Trustees. It may be impractical or inappropriate to make 
a decision on a complaint that materially affected all the Trustees including those who didnt
agree to it being  made. It would depend on the particular facts  and circumstances of the
complaint.
When Mr and Mrs S first referred  their complaint  to the Ombudsman Service we
contacted the firm of Independent Trustees (12 May 2015)  for information about the SSAS.
They were  sent a copy of the complaint form that Mr and Mrs S had completed and so were 
clearly alerted the complaint was being made. They didnt raise any queries about the 
complaint or lodge any objection to it.
We asked the firm of Independent  Trustees (in April 2020)  to confirm they were aware that 
the complaints  were  made in February 2015. They  said they couldnt confirm  whether they 
were aware of the complaint  in 2015 without looking through  their archive  files, and given  the 
COVID-19 situation this wasnt  possible. They said they:
cannot join this complaint. As the independent  trustee [they were] not party to any 
member Trustee decisions to appoint an adviser. The rules may state that all Trustees must 
agree an investment, however,  [the independent Trustees] will only follow the instruction  of 
the member Trustees  provided the investment is allowable  within a pension  scheme  and this 
investment was.
And
As stated in the SSASs terms  & conditions all investment decisions must be made
unanimously by all the Trustees of the SSAS.  Once the decision has been  made  by the
member Trustees, [the independent trustees] will also agree provided that it is within  the 
scheme rules and pensions legislation.
Mr and Mrs S did not have the authority  to make the investment themselves, as all
investment decisions  must  be unanimous. As the previous  adviser gave the advice to all
the Trustees, any of them  are free to complain against the advice they received as
trustees. [The Independent Trustees] will not comment on or join the complaint but we do not 
object to it either.
I said my understanding was that Mr and Mrs S were  eligible to complain as Trustees when 
they did so in 2015. Whilst  we couldnt confirm whether  there was a unanimous  agreement
between Mr and Mrs S and the Independent Trustees to make the complaint in February  
2015, it was clear the Independent Trustees were aware of the complaint, at least  by May 
2015 at the latest when we contacted them. They didnt object to the complaint being made.
Ref: DRN035475424I said this wasnt relevant to Mr and Mrs S being  eligible  to bring the complaint as Trustees.  
But it was relevant in deciding  whether the complaint should be dismissed. The Trustees  had 
said although they didnt wish to join in with the complaint they didnt object to it being  made.  
In the circumstances, Id seen no persuasive reason to dismiss the complaint without 
considering its merits. I didnt think there were any issues that made  it inequitable to 
consider the complaints made on 25 February  2015  as being by Mr and Mrs S as Trustees 
(in terms of dismissal).
So, in summary,  I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to say explicitly in what
capacity they were making  their complaints when they did so in February 2015; Im
satisfied they were eligible complainants and made the complaint as Trustees  this wasnt a 
new complaint.  And I wasnt persuaded that the complaint  should  be dismissed
without considering its merits.
Compensation
The Independent Trustees had said that it would be possible to pay any compensation into 
the SSAS.  However, I said if for any reason it couldnt be paid into the SSAS it should be 
paid directly to Mr and Mrs S, less an appropriate  deduction for income  tax as I described in 
my 12 March 2020 letter.
Davies Financials representative provided  a further  submission dated  17 November 2020. It 
submitted, in summary:
The key issue was that Mr and Mrs S had clearly brought  their complaint de facto as 
beneficiaries of the SSAS. It hadnt  suggested they needed to state the capacity in 
which they were bringing the claim.  
The question to be considered was whether, viewed objectively, Mr and Mrs S were  
complaining in their personal capacities as beneficiaries,  or in their formal capacities
as Trustees of the Scheme. If there  was evidence indicating that they were  
complaining in their personal capacities, they could not, at the relevant time,  have  
been eligible  complainants.  It said this was a question  of law, and so my comments  
about fairness were  irrelevant. 
It went onto outline  the evidence it considered illustrated  Mr and Mr S were 
complaining in their personal capacities and not as Trustees. It said this 
insurmountable weight of evidence showed that this was a complaint by Mr and Mrs 
S personally. Whether  they said it was a personal complaint,  a Trustee complaining  
or something else wasnt relevant.
Mr and Mrs S took no action to involve  the Independent Trustee in the decision to 
claim against Davies Financial and therefore had no legal authority to do so as 
Trustees on behalf of the Scheme. The Independent Trustees agreement  was 
required to make a complaint as Trustees  on behalf of the Scheme. A complaint on 
any other basis would be ultra vires  and the representative assumed  we did not 
seek to support illegal Trustee actions.
The view that, effectively, it didnt  matter in what capacity a complainant  complained, 
particularly as the word  capacity  wasnt used in DISP  2.7, didnt stand up to 
scrutiny. It was evident from DISP 2.7 that the nature of the person (for which  read 
capacity) complaining  was relevant  as only certain categories of person could 
Ref: DRN035475425complain. The question what is the nature of the person  complaining (i.e. in what 
capacity is the complaint  being made) therefore needed to be asked. It said this was 
supported by a simple  reading of the wording of DISP  2.7, which stated:
an eligible  complainant must be a person that is:
..
(4) a trustee of a trust which has a net asset value  of less than £1 million at the time 
the complainant  refers  the complaint to the respondent. It said this could only mean  
that same  eligible  complainant  it clearly couldnt  be someone else.
The representative said DISP 2.7 was stating  that a Trustee of a relevant Trust could be an 
eligible complainant, so long as the Trust met the relevant criteria when the Trustee referred  
the complaint  to the firm. Here, the Trustee(s) didnt refer the complaint to the firm. Mr and 
Mrs S complained separately  as beneficiaries of the Trust.  It said even if I thought that 
evidence of the capacity in which a complainant  was complaining  wasnt strictly required, it 
didnt mean  I could ignore evidence about capacity when it was there.
It said I had ignored two other cases it had referenced where I/we had recognised the 
relevance of the Trustee / beneficiary  distinction,  requiring the complaint to be brought  by 
Trustees, not beneficiaries.  
The representative also said I hadnt  addressed the comments it had made about redress in 
its letter dated 31 March  2020. 
My findings  
I thank the parties  for all the submissions  that have been made. 
As I am required to do, I have kept the matter  of jurisdiction under  constant review and have 
considered in detail all the further  submissions that have been made since my provisional  
decision and letter of 10 September 2019. 
In deciding the merits of this complaint  Ive considered all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the complaint.
Jurisdiction - eligible complainant
Davies Financials representative raised a number  of further  points about eligibility following 
my letter of 23 October 2020. Ive carefully  considered the points  made, however they 
havent changed my view.   As I set out in my letter of 23 October 2020, DISP 2.7 (as it was 
at the time) defines  eligible complainant in detail. I dont agree there is any basis for 
reading implied requirements regarding capacity into the definition of eligible  complainant   
its an objective test as set out in the DISP Rules. 
I accept that the nature or capacity of a person  complaining is relevant, in as far as only 
certain categories of person can refer complaints  to us.  However, whether they have  the 
relevant nature/capacity, or in other  words  are eligible complainants,  is determined 
objectively by application of the facts  to the relevant DISP Rules. As I said in my letter,  these 
are rules  and not guidance. They set out the requirements for an eligible complainant. The 
complainant is either eligible or not eligible. 
Ref: DRN035475426The representative said the key issue was that Mr and Mrs S had clearly brought their 
complaint de facto as beneficiaries of the SSAS.  However,  I dont agree. In my view the 
key issue is whether Mr and Mrs S were  eligible complainants as provided for in the DISP  
Rules, giving  the Ombudsman Service powers  to consider their complaint.  Its a matter of 
fact that they were  Trustees, and Im satisfied they were  eligible complainants  under the 
DISP rules.
 
The representative said Mr and Mrs S didnt seek agreement from the Independent  Trustees 
and without it they were  acting ultra vires . As I said in my letter of 23 October  2020 and 
above, DISP provides  rules about  the requirements  for eligible  complainants  and Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs S met the criteria. I considered the fact the other Trustees  hadnt  all 
joined in with the complaint in considering whether it should be dismissed without 
considering its merits  and for the reasons I set out, I didnt think  it should  be dismissed.
The representatives submission of 31 March 2020  said my interpretation of the jurisdiction 
rules could lead to unfair results. In my 23 October 2020 letter I referred  to any perceived 
unfairness to a firm in addressing the points  the representative made  and the reasons for my 
interpretation of the rules. 
Jurisdiction - time limits  
Its not in dispute  that the complaint was made more than six years  after the event 
complained of. So as Mr (and Mrs) S complained to Davies  Financial on 25 February 2015 
under DISP 2.8.2R  (as it was at the relevant time) they needed to be aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that they had cause for complaint more than three years 
before that date to be out of time.  
In summary,  prior to 25 February  2012  Mr and Mrs S:
Had been advised by a professional firm that the investment  in Majestic Village No 1 
(and later Cape Verde) was suitable  for them; 
 
Had agreed to take a speculative risk with a proportion  of their portfolio and would 
have reasonably understood at the time of the advice that the amounts theyd been 
recommended to invest were suitable;
Could  reasonably have expected significant  fluctuations in the value of their 
investments given they were  speculative;
Had made significant profits on two of the speculative investments.  But had also lost 
two other  investments  completely;
Were alerted there had been deferrals to the redemption  date for the Majestic  Village 
fund. But its value  was around the same as had originally been invested.
Had been advised there  were  certain guarantees that applied  if all the properties 
werent sold;
Had been told the value of their overall  portfolio had fallen by 2.5%  following the 
complete loss of the two UCIS investments.
Ref: DRN035475427Given the loss of two other speculative investments, and given the actual position as I have  
set out above,  ought Mr and Mrs S to have  become  aware that they were  over exposed  to 
speculative risk, and that this was a result of a failing in Davies Financials advice?
Mr and Mrs S have  said they wouldnt have invested  if they had realised there was a risk of 
complete loss. And as Ive said, I think Mr and Mrs S were  aware  that Majestic Village was a 
speculative investment. I recognise  there  is an argument that as two speculative investments 
had failed, this ought to have prompted Mr and Mrs S to look into their remaining speculative 
investments in more  detail. Ive thought about this carefully.
 
In my experience, ordinary investors  place great weight on their investments current value, 
and historic performance relative to the amount initially invested. Its often a fall in the value 
of an investment that is the trigger for a retail investor to think  they might have a problem.
Mr and Mrs S were  aware  the redemption date for Majestic Village had been pushed back.  I 
think this would have  caused them to think about  this investment. Davies Financial  said its 
actual value wouldnt be known until the fund closed, but that it was valuing it at the original 
amount invested.  The headline  value it was being given didnt change materially  prior to the 
relevant date for limitation  of 25 February  2012 . Majestic Village (and Cape  Verde) also 
appeared to provide some guarantees.  As Ive said before, as speculative  investors  Mr and 
Mrs S could expect some  ups and downs.  Although  the value  of Cape Verde fell slightly  prior 
to 25 February 2012, it wasnt  to such a degree that would be unexpected for a speculative 
investor. 
In the circumstances and given Mr and Mrs S had agreed to this money being invested in a 
speculative investment, I dont think they ought to have realised that the Majestic  Village No 
1 fund was inappropriate for them  in itself, more than three years before the complaint was 
made  even in the context of the two other speculative  investments failing.  
Davies Financial has said that given the amount Mr and Mrs S had invested in UCISs 
there couldnt be any argument  that their degree  of exposure to speculative  risk would have 
been clear to them.
However, Mr and Mrs S would reasonably have understood the amounts they were being  
recommended to invest in Majestic  Village and subsequently Cape Verde and the degree of 
risk they presented  were suitable to their circumstances  at that time.  
The suitability letter for the investment in Cape Verde shows that there were discussions 
about investing future contributions in lower risk assets going forward,  to equalise  the overall 
risk profile. But the firm had effectively  advised  that the further speculative investment in 
Cape Verde was suitable. So I dont think it follows that Mr and Mrs S ought reasonably to 
have become aware they were over exposed to risk overall, against  that background. 
Although Mr and Mrs S had suffered the complete loss of two investments, the overall  
portfolio had only dropped by about  2.5%.  As Ive said, judging  what proportion  isnt 
appropriate in more detail isnt straightforward for a layman. In this context, I dont think Mr 
and Mrs S had the knowledge and experience to have realised that they were  over exposed 
to risk.
Taking all the facts into account,  I dont think it would have been apparent that Mr and Mrs S  
had been inappropriately advised  to invest  in Majestic Village (or Cape Verde)  and that this 
had caused them loss, or that they had been inappropriately advised in terms of their overall 
exposure.
Ref: DRN035475428Based on the facts  as Ive understood them and outlined, and for the reasons given 
previously and above, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S were aware or ought reasonably to 
have become aware that they had cause for complaint about Majestic  Village No 1 before 
the key dates set out above.  And therefore  Im satisfied this is a complaint that I can 
consider.
Suitability of advice
The representative has said the heart  of the issue is whether or not Mr and Mrs S 
understood that they were  taking  a higher risk with the result that they could suffer  significant  
losses. And as long as they understood this concept the starting point  was that it was up to 
them how much risk they wanted to take.
However, in my view this is the wrong starting point. As I said in my provisional decision, 
the starting point is that Davies Financial was obliged to provide suitable  advice.  As Davies 
Financial has said itself,  if clients  say they have an appetite for more risk than is suitable for 
their circumstances, Sometimes  this means protecting  them from themselves by advising 
restrictions. Its the advisers role to advise that taking such risks isnt suitable if they arent  
in a position to absorb the losses potentially flowing from those risks. Mr and Mrs S were 
retail investors. They may have  run a successful  business  but theyd employed Davies 
Financial for its professional expertise and Im satisfied they were entitled  to rely on its 
advice. 
The adviser was required to take into account  all the circumstances and assets of a client. 
Mr and Mrs S may have agreed  to accept a speculative  risk with a particular investment, and 
I think they understood it was a speculative fund.  However, the degree of risk presented by 
Majestic Village No 1 shouldnt have been  considered in isolation.  It needed to be 
considered in the context of Mr and Mrs S overall circumstances.
As Ive said,  Mr and Mrs S already had about  £75,000 in UCISs.  After investing  in Majestic 
Village No 1 they had over £155,000 in UCIS/Qualified Investor investments  about  37% of 
their total savings and pensions.  And they had about £170,000 in equities   representing 
about 41%. 
Davies Financial doesnt think this is the appropriate context to weigh up the risks presented. 
Its said the value  of the business should be taken  into account. And they have provided a 
cash-flow analysis showing Mr and Mrs S had the capacity to accept the risks of their 
speculative investments failing entirely. 
Its well known that cash-flow forecasts are very sensitive  to the underlying  assumptions  
behind them. For the reasons I outlined  in my letter dated 10 September 2019, I think  the 
assumptions used were optimistic and the forecasts cant be relied upon to show                  
Mr and Mrs S had the capacity to accept the risks they were  exposed to following the firms 
advice. 
However, as I said in that letter,  although they were  based on favourable  assumptions  I 
didnt think it was unreasonable  to show how things might turn out in those  circumstances. 
But the forecasts were  provided as evidence to show Mr and Mrs S capacity  for loss. In 
assessing capacity  for loss Davies Financial should  have shown what the position  would 
have been in different circumstances and in a scenario where events didnt work out 
Ref: DRN035475429favourably; in effect stress testing to show the impact  of less favourable future scenarios and  
more than one potential outcome.
Aside from the £155,000 investments in UCISs, Mr and Mrs S had around  £170,000 in 
equities and £90,000 in safer type assets.  So, they already had considerable exposure to 
speculative investments and equites  that also presented  significant  risks. Those  risks should 
have been taken into account by Davies Financial in making its recommendation. This 
wasnt new money  it was switching money from mainstream investments into something  
that provided even  greater risk at a time when Mr S was getting closer to his intended 
retirement date.
I think sensible  investment advice would include an assessment of all the risks that Mr and 
Mrs S were  exposed to and consideration of the differing levels  of risk presented  by the 
different assets  classes they were invested  into. A consideration  of their position  where  
things didnt go well would  include looking at scenarios where equities didnt perform well. 
Recent history shows that equities  do present  significant risks,  and so this should have been 
taken into account  in assessing  Mr and Mrs S overall capacity for loss.  
Davies Financial has said the call log from July 2014  shows  that Mr and Mrs S had indicated 
they were happy  with a £44,000 net of tax income in 2014.  Its said this shows  they were in a 
position to speculate with a decent part of their pension funds and still live the lifestyle in 
retirement that they wanted. 
After Mr and Mrs S had switched about  £82,000  into Majestic Village No 1 in 2006  they had 
about £170,000 remaining in equites and £90,000 in safer asset  classes. I accept that it was 
likely that some additional pension contributions would be made, and that the business  
would provide further funds on its eventual sale. But as Ive said,  what  level was uncertain 
for both, and dependent on the future  success of the business. 
Whats key here is whether Mr and Mrs S had the capacity to accept the risks presented 
given their circumstances in 2006. Putting such a large proportion  of their provision  in 
unregulated investments and equities  presented significant risks to Mr and Mrs S being able 
to secure this level of income in retirement  irrespective of the position  in 2014. I dont 
agree the 2014 note illustrates  that Mr and Mrs S had the capacity to take significant  risks 
with the majority of their pension and investments in 2006. 
The representative has said the reference  to sequencing risk wasnt understood. However, 
as the index selected had very good  growth  in the first few years it led to a sizeable fund by 
the time that withdrawals were taken  and which were included  in the forecast. 
Davies Financial has provided cash-flow forecasts  from 2015 showing that Mr and Mrs S 
would have sufficient  income through retirement.  However, what Im considering  here is their 
capacity for loss given  their circumstances in 2006; the advice needs to be considered in the 
context of the circumstances at the time. 
The representative has said that if advice had to be given  on the assumption that a 
customers business went downhill, that their income significantly reduced and that their 
other investments crashed, then no customer  would ever have sufficient capacity for loss 
and no sensible investment advice could ever be given. 
As Ive said,  in my opinion  a firm should consider different scenarios with varying  outcomes 
in order that their client gets an understanding of the potential  implications of the advice 
Ref: DRN035475430given. But in assessing capacity for loss, I think this should include considering  the position 
where their other risk based investments dont increase in value or fall.  
This reflects reality. As Ive said above,  equities  do represent significant  risks  the potential 
to make material losses from investment  in equities  is a known risk. And thats the point of 
assessing capacity  for loss  it wasnt merely  the unregulated/qualified funds that were 
exposed to risk here  the equity investments were  also exposed  to significant risks.  The 
ultimate outcome  will likely lie somewhere in between a poor scenario and a good one. But 
in assessing capacity for loss the underlying nature and different risks presented by all the 
different assets  held should be taken into account to make  an appropriate assessment. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think the 2010 FSA report was an indication  of what  
the regulator thought  had been industry  good practice  prior to its publication in 2010. Clearly  
Davies Financial couldnt have known about  the content of the report in 2006. However, the 
guidance hadnt changed anything  in terms of the requirements on firms to provide  suitable 
advice which  applied  when  Majestic Village No 1 was recommended.  I dont think  the 
regulators 2010 report was setting limits for UCIS  exposure  to this sort of level for every 
case. But as I said, diversification is a well know principle of investment risk management  
and the nature and additional  risks presented  by these investments mean they are only likely  
to be suitable  for a limited proportion of an investors portfolio.  Whats considered a 
reasonable proportion will depend on an investors  particular  circumstances. 
The proportion of Mr and Mrs S assets  in UCIS/Qualified Investor funds expressed as a 
percentage of their total pension and saving provision was 37%. They  had another  41% 
invested in equities. Davies Financial has said the appropriate figure was 16.4% as this 
reflected all of Mr and Mrs S assets  including their business. I note the suitability report said 
the investment  represented less than 20% of their combined pension  funds.  I think this is 
how the risk was framed to Mr and Mrs S. In fact, the investment in Majestic Village No 1 
was slightly higher than the 20%.  And if the existing exposure to UCIS of £75,000 was taken 
into account the proportion would have  been significantly higher. 
But whatever proportion is used, ultimately,  the mix and nature of the underlying assets was 
the same: around £155,000 UCIS/Qualified Investor, £170,000 in equities,  £90,000  in safer  
type assets and their business. As Ive said, the value  of their business  was uncertain and 
dependent on its success going forward. And the UCIS/ Qualified Investor and equites 
presented speculative/significant risks.   Therefore Mr and Mrs S only had a relatively small 
proportion of their money in safer type assets, and even this was subject to performance 
risks.
So, was it suitable  advice to switch around £82,000 from their mainstream pension funds 
into Majestic Village  No 1  a speculative investment?
There was no overall  attitude to risk established for Mr and Mrs S. The representative has 
said this wasnt uncommon  in 2006  and they had different attitudes to risk for different  
investments. It set out the differing levels of risk that Mr and Mrs S had taken   which  varied 
from an ATR of 1/5 for a £50,000 investment to 5/5 for certain pension funds including 
Majestic Village No 1.
I accept investors may want  differing levels of risk with different investments.  However,  I 
dont think the adviser  could  exercise  the reasonable skill and care required to provide 
suitable advice  about the switch without considering the degree of risk that they wanted to 
accept overall. With another £82,000 added  to the existing £75,000 invested in UCIS, and 
Ref: DRN035475431with around £170,000 invested in equities  after the switch this was clearly exposing  the 
majority of Mr and Mrs S pensions and savings to significant risks.  Theres  no evidence  that 
the adviser established they wanted to take significant risks overall or clearly  set out the 
overall risks that Mr and Mrs S were exposed to and the potential  implications of taking that 
risk. 
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, I dont think  there  is any benefit in 
assessing the amount invested  speculatively in 2006 against  the potential  assets at 
retirement date several years away and based  on assumed returns. This has no relevance in 
assessing the degree of risk Mr and Mrs S were exposed to in 2006.  Financial planning 
clearly requires considering of the position going  forward. And the firm had recommended  Mr 
and Mr S to switch some investments to more cautious assets. But whilst future plans should 
be taken into account there wasnt anything in place here that materially affected the degree 
of risk that Mr and Mr S were exposed to in 2006.
The representative questioned what was "appropriate weight" when taking the value  of the 
business into account. I think the "appropriate weight" given should be considered  in the 
context of the particular circumstances. It was likely  to provide some value. But its ultimate 
value was uncertain and wasnt guaranteed as it was exposed to the usual risks of business. 
As I said,  the business was valued  at a significantly lower amount  a few years  later.  And 
pension contributions were also reduced. These risks were all reasonably foreseeable at the 
time the advice was given in 2006.  
Mr and Mrs S had agreed to accept  significant risk with this particular investment. But the 
adviser hadnt established whether they were willing to accept a significant risk overall  so I 
cant see how he could be confident that the mix of assets was aligned to the overall degree 
of risk that Mr and Ms S were  willing  and had the capacity to take. I think  the adviser should 
have taken into account the cumulative effect of the other speculative/significant investments 
in judging the degree of risk that Mr and Mrs S were exposed to.
However, following  the advice given to Mr and Mrs S to invest  in Majestic  Village  No 1 the 
majority of their pensions  and savings were invested  at significant/speculative risk.  It was 
clearly foreseeable  that they could  lose a significant amount of that provision.  Mr and Mrs S 
didnt have the capacity to accept  the potential losses their mix of assets exposed them to. 
Taking all their circumstances into account and for the reasons I have set out, Im not 
persuaded they were given sensible investment advice; the recommendation to invest the 
£82,000 in Majestic Village wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs S in their particular circumstances 
as it presented too great a risk overall.   
Davies Financial has outlined the reasons it considers that Mr and Mrs S evidence  is 
unreliable. Whilst I have taken into account what Mr and Mrs S have said, as well as what 
Davies Financial has said, I have placed  most weight  on the contemporaneous evidence that 
is available which clearly  records the circumstances from the time.  As  Ive said, Im satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs S had agreed to accept significant  risk with this particular investment. And 
that they ought reasonably to have understood it was a speculative  investment. However,  
taking everything into account and for the reasons  outlined above, I dont think the advice  
was suitable in their particular  circumstances.
recommendation of cautious investments
For the reasons  I have  given I think the advice  to invest in Majestic Village was unsuitable.  
And that suitable  advice would have been  to invest in a more  cautious manner given the 
Ref: DRN035475432risks that Mr and Mrs S other assets  were  exposed to.  I need  to decide what  Mr and Mrs S 
would likely  have done if Davies  Financial had advised them  to invest more  cautiously from 
the outset; either accepted and followed that advice or, as Davies  Financial  says,  its more 
likely that they would have insisted on investing in Majestic Village No 1. 
The May 2006 suitability report said:
We review your financial affairs each  February and during this years  review I identified two 
pensions held within your SSAS.that could potentially be improved upon. The reason for 
this is that both of these  pensions have older style charging structures which  involve monthly 
policy fees, early transfer penalties  and bid/offer spreads (initial charges applied  to each 
pension contribution). 
The fact find from the time recorded  that Mr S was attracted by the prospect  of offplan 
property investment in Spain  and he wanted to utilise the funds built up in his pension to 
invest in the new fund  [Majestic Village].
Whilst I accept  that Mr S may have been  attracted  to the investment, the transaction  
resulted from Davies Financials review and its recommendations  to switch part of Mr S 
mainstream pension  funds to this speculative investment. 
The representative has said Davies Financial had various discussions about  the risks that Mr 
and Mrs S were taking and how much  exposure they wanted to higher risk investments. The 
representative has referred to the documents from the 2007  advice  about  Cape Verde  as 
evidence that the adviser  had discussions about how much  risk Mr and Mrs S were taking 
overall; how much exposure they wanted to higher risk investments; and that they had a 
strong wish to seek a higher return on a small part of their wealth.
Its not in dispute  that Mr and Mrs S were  prepared to accept  significant  risks with a 
proportion of their money. But in my view they were advised to invest too high a proportion in 
speculative investments. The firm were effectively advising that the further investment into 
Cape Verde was suitable. Whilst the 2007  fact find recorded they were  keen  to invest  in 
this fund  the discussions need to be considered in that context  that they would have 
understood it was suitable for them to take the risks presented by a further investment in a 
speculative fund. 
As Ive said above,  the starting point  is Davies Financial should have been providing  suitable 
advice. To do that it needed to look at Mr and Mrs S circumstances in the round  not just 
focusing on the risks presented by the isolated  investments  in question.  I dont think  the 
evidence shows that Mr and Mrs S would have insisted on investing speculatively  if the 
adviser had initially  advised them to invest in a more cautious manner. In my view the 
evidence referred  to by Davies  Financial  merely  illustrates that Mr and Mrs S were willing to 
invest a proportion of their money  in a speculative manner when the adviser recommended  it 
was suitable for them  to do so. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the adviser told them 
the investment  in Majestic Village No 1 resulted in too high a degree of exposure to risk 
overall, but they were insistent on investing in it at all costs.
In my experience most clients follow what their adviser recommends on most occasions   
the adviser is the expert in the matter and they generally trust the adviser. In this context,  
and given the particular evidence in this case,  Im satisfied its more likely  than not that Mr 
and Mrs S would  have invested in a more cautious manner if the adviser  had recommended 
them to do so. 
Ref: DRN035475433Davies Financials representative has said that any compensation  payable  should be by 
reference to the EPP rather than an index  as the most likely scenario is that the monies  
would have remained in the EPP. Whilst I accept the money may have remained in the EPP  
for the reasons I have  already outlined I think Mr and Mrs S should have been  advised to 
reduce their exposure  to risk given  the risks that their other investments already presented. I 
thought it was likely they would have  switched to a range  of funds presenting  less risk in the 
EPP, if they had been suitably advised  to do so. And given  its not possible to know exactly  
how they would have invested;  I think the index provides a reasonable proxy.  
Delays
Davies Financials representative has said Davies  Financial  shouldnt be penalised  by 
having to pay additional redress up to the date of a decision  because of our delays. 
As Ive said,  there have  been delays and I apologised  to both parties and I set out why I 
thought redress  should be calculated at decision  date. Whilst Ive taken account of what  
Davies Financial has said, Im satisfied Davies Financial  provided unsuitable advice  and 
caused the losses that flowed from that advice. Taking  everything  into account, I think  its fair 
in all the circumstances that the comparison is carried out as at the date of my final decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, in my opinion,  it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to  
uphold the complaint. 
I order Davis  Financial Limited to calculate and pay compensation  to the Trustees of the 
SSAS on the following  basis . 
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr and Mrs S as the Trustees of the SSAS  should  be put as closely as 
possible into the position they would  probably  now be in if they had been  given suitable 
advice. 
The representative has said that if redress was payable it should  be calculated  on the basis 
suggested by Mr and Mrs S  equivalent  to the return from a high interest cash fund. Whilst 
I think Mr and Mrs S would have invested differently, I dont think its likely they would have 
invested in a high interest  cash fund. I think its more likely than not that they would have 
invested in the manner  recommended by the adviser. For the reasons  I explained above,  I 
think given their existing  position, suitable advice would have been to invest more cautiously   
but in a mix of assets. Its not possible to say precisely what  they would have done, but Im 
satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and reasonable  given  Mr and Mrs S' 
circumstances and objectives when they invested.
 
what should  Davies Financial Limited do?
 
To compensate the complainant fairly,  Davies Financial Limited  must:
Compare the performance of the investment with that of the benchmark  shown  below. If the 
fair value  is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Ref: DRN035475434 
Davies Financial Limited  should  add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Davies Financial Limited  should pay such  an amount into the SSAS  to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should  not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance. 
The Independent Trustees have said that it will be possible  to pay compensation into the 
SSAS.
However, if Davies Financial Limited is unable  to pay the compensation into the SSAS  it 
should pay that amount direct to Mr and Mrs S. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it would  have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr S' actual or expected  marginal rate of 
tax at his selected  retirement age. I consider Mr S (and Mrs S) is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at retirement,  so the reduction  would equal  the current basic  rate of tax. If Mr S 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% 
of the compensation. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Stirling  
Mortimer 
Majestic 
Village  No 
1 FundNow 
delistedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average  
rate from fixed 
rate bonds date of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business  
being  notified 
of 
acceptance)
Davies Financial must  also pay the Trustees of the SSAS £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience Im satisfied the loss of a substantial proportion of the pension fund will have 
caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Davies Financial Limited deducts income 
tax from the interest,  it should tell the Trustees of the SSAS how much has been taken off. 
Davies Financial Limited  should  give the Trustees  of the SSAS  a tax deduction  certificate if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
actual value
Ref: DRN035475435This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Davies  
Financial Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial 
value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the 
compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Davies Financial Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value  should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Davies Financial  Limited may require that 
the Trustees of the SSAS provide an undertaking to pay Davies  Financial Limited  any 
amount they may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking must allow for 
any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension  plan. 
Davies Financial Limited  will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  at 
the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there are a large  number  of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Davies Financial Limited totals  all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs S as Trustees of the SSAS were  willing to accept some risk. But I think  
in their circumstances  they only had limited capacity for additional risk. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I think a suitable  level of risk would be somewhere  in between.  The 50/50 
combination is a reasonable proxy for the risks Mr and Mrs S as Trustees  of the 
SSAS should have  been suitably advised to take. 
Ref: DRN035475436It doesnt mean that they would have  invested  50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker  investment. Rather,  I consider  this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return  they could  have 
obtained with suitable advice.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000 (as it was at the time), plus any interest and/or costs that I 
consider appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may 
recommend that Davies Financial Limited pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My final decision is that Davies Financial Limited should pay 
the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum  of £150,000 (including distress  
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Davies Financial Limited pays the Trustees of the SSAS the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S - as 
Trustees of the SSAS - to accept  or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN035475437Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint  is that in May 2006 Davies  Financial Limited advised them to invest in the 
Stirling Mortimer Majestic  Village 1 Fund which they believe was unsuitable  for them.
background
Mr and Mrs S were running their own business. They had an existing Small Self-
Administered Scheme  (SSAS). And they had some  other pension  plans. Mr and Mrs S had been 
advised by Davies Financial for several  years and it was clear that the adviser knew  the clients well 
when they met in 2006.
My understanding is that in May 2006 Mr and Mrs S had, in summary, approximately:
£328,000 in mainstream pension funds. This was made up of Mr S two Executive Personal  
Pensions (EPPs) worth about £156,000 in total. And a personal pension  valued  at £51,000. 
Mrs S had two EPPs.  One valued at £43,000 and one at £78,000. 
£25,000 in Pinder Fry & Benjamin GOLD 9 (an unregulated collective investment scheme  
UCIS).
£50,000 in Pinder Fry & Benjamin GOLD  7 (a UCIS).
£15,000 in Personal  Equity Plans (PEPs)  invested  in stocks and shares.
Mr S was paying £1,780 per month into his pensions. And Mrs S was paying  £1,140 into her 
pensions.
A suitability  report was given to Mr and Mrs S dated 11 May 2006. This said, amongst other things 
that Mr and Mrs S were continuing with their plan to potentially retire  in 2015.  They wanted to 
maximise investment growth; have  an element  of risk control, but were  keen to take an investment 
opportunity. The report said:
Your companymaintains a healthy  bank  balance, currently in the region of £150,000 and at the 
time of our meeting you were willing  to invest £100,000 of this for the potential of greater growth. 
However since that time you have decided to use some of that money  for business expansion and 
now wish to retain funds in the business as you are unsure as to when this will take place.
In respect of risk it said:
In this instance you are willing to take a degree of speculative investment with a part of your overall 
investment/pension portfolio  with the aim of achieving above average returns  and have agreed to 
utilise the funds invested  in [Mr S EPP] for this purpose. 
You fully understand  the risks associated  with speculative investments;  however as your existing 
pension with [Provider]  forms less than 20% of your combined pension funds, you are therefore willing 
to utilise this to invest in non-standard investment for the potential  of greater  growth  and therefore a 
greater income  in retirement.
And:
In order to better  gauge your individual risk profiles, we discussed your attitudes  and in this instance  
you were  willing to invest  some of your capital  into investments of a Speculative risk profile  and 
providing this was complimented by making  changes to others to have a Cautious to Balanced risk 
profile. 
Ref: DRN035475438You have  confirmed that in respect of this investment  you are willing to have a combination  of 
Speculative and Cautious to Balanced attitudes towards investment risk based on the following 
criteria:
2 Cautious to Balanced
(Low to Medium Risk)
You understand the relationship exists between risk and reward. You aim is to achieve greater returns  
over the longer-term  than interest paying  accounts, and you are therefore  prepared  to accept  the risk 
of possibly losing some  of your money and to see some fluctuation in value. To achieve  the above 
you will consider investing in the following types of areas:
Funds that invest in a wide range of assets, including shares, but which aim to follow  a fairly cautious 
approach to risk: or
A product  or fund that offers to aim a maximum  amount  at a set point in time.
5 Speculative
High Risk
You understand the relationship exists between risk and reward. Your  aim is to maximise  your returns 
over the longer term, and you are therefore prepared  to accept significant day-to-day  fluctuations in 
the value of your money and the resulting risk of a possible loss arising at any stage. To achieve  the 
above you will consider investing in the following  types of areas:-
 
Funds that invest in a narrow range of assets, for example  shares  within particular  markets or sectors,  
which expect to be very volatile  in value or individual shares.
Davies Financial recommended that Mr S invest the value of his EPP in Majestic  Village  No 1 fund. 
The transfer  value of the EPP was recorded  as £80,795.79. It also advised  that Mr S re-direct  the 
monthly contribution  of £800 he was making  to the EPP into Mrs S EPP.
Davies Financial recommended that Mrs S commence  a risk control  strategy  within your existing 
pension funds  by annual switching to lower  risk funds as you approach 50. It said one of her EPPs 
already met this criteria  and so didnt require  changes.  But the other currently had a much higher risk 
profile and so it advised making changes to the investments. Initially this was to have an investment 
split of 60% in Balanced  Managed Funds, 20% in Property and 20% in Gilt and Fixed Interest.  
The report gave a summary of the main features of the investment. It said:
Majestic is a truly international organisation  with the financial standing to obtain the necessary 
guarantees, build the quality of property  needed  and using their media initiatives they have never 
failed to sell on an investor contract. 
This investment is unique in as much as there are built in guarantees  to investors  whereby  Majestic 
will be subject to penalties at the two year, three year and four year points if they have not 
successfully been able to sell on the properties to the end users. These penalties mean that if the 
properties have not been sold at the end of the first two years the fund will receive a 15% payment 
from Majestic. And should  this be the case at the end of the third and fourth years additional bonuses  
of 2%pa will be paid. 
{A Spanish  bank} (Moodys rated A1) provides these guarantees,  as part of the requirement of this 
investment Majestic lodges the cash in advance in Escrow accounts  with the lawyer  to cover the 
guarantees should these bonuses be required. The Bank guarantee ensures  a return  of investment 
plus 15% in the unlikely event of Majestic  ceasing business.  (See  Cell Document page 6). 
Ref: DRN035475439It is the expectation  of the fund managers at Sterling  Mortimer that the off plan contracts will have 
been sold within the first 2 years of the fund launching  and are therefore not anticipating any of these 
penalties to actually  be paid. Instead it is the aim for the investors in the fund to benefit  solely from the 
growth potential in selling the off-plan contracts within  this time frame.
Should the fund not successfully  sell all of these contracts  by the end of the first four years it will be 
contractually committed to complete on the purchase of the contracts not sold off-plan. In this 
instance it is the intention of the fund managers for the fund to raise non-recourse borrowing  
(borrowing limited to the assets  of the fund only) to complete on the purchases and then rent the 
properties on to major travel  companies from whom they have  agreement in advance  of this. In the 
event that the properties  are owned by the fund, this could be a potential  breach  of the HMRC 
permitted investment rule and therefore the gains  could be more  taxable,  however we have  been 
assured by  the tax advisers to the fund, that this would  not be the case and this has been 
endorsed by many  of the leading  pension  specialist  companies
My advice is based upon  the understanding that you have read and understood the contents of the 
Cell & Principle  Memorandum document that I have provided to you.
This investment is specialised and whilst  I have explained  the various guarantees provided by 
Majestic, I have also explained that by its very nature it is a speculative investment, which could still 
expose you pension  fund to risk of significant capital  loss.
The Addendum to the report  had a section headed Risks. This said:
The brochures also provide you with details of any risks and potential  disadvantages associated  with 
the recommended  fund.  We have previously discussed these, and I would like to highlight the 
following points.  
A list of general risk warnings was provided. Of particular reference  to this investment it said:
Whilst you may hold at our discretion most types of investment in your SSAS  some investments  
may not be readily tradeable. As such, when  switching these to them, or making a purchase or sale, 
you need to bear this potential  difficulty in mind. 
Investing in specialised funds has the potential for higher returns but is also likely  to be more volatile 
and higher risk. This is largely due to the fact that these are more susceptible to significant cultural, 
political or economic damage.
The investment in Majestic Village went ahead. My understanding is that actual amount invested was 
about £82,000. 
Mr and Mrs S subsequently became concerned  that they were poorly  advised and complained  to the 
firm. Davies  Financial didnt uphold their complaint. Very briefly, it said Mr and Mrs S wanted 
speculative investments  and were already experienced with other high risk investments. It considered 
its advice was suitable for Mr and Mrs S particular circumstances.  
 
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaints to us. The background,  very briefly, is that one of our 
ombudsman sent a decision outlining why she thought the complaints were within our jurisdiction to 
consider. And that this complaint should be considered separately  to another  complaint made by Mr 
and Mrs S. 
Another ombudsman  issued decisions outlining  why he thought the complaint should be upheld;  
essentially because  he didnt think the advice  given had been  suitable. He set out how he thought  
appropriate compensation  should  be calculated  and paid. 
Davies Financial didnt agree with the ombudsmans  provisional findings. It provided  a number of 
submissions over a period  of time setting out its view of the matter. Ive considered them all in full, 
Ref: DRN035475440albeit Ive only summarised what I think are the key points below.  My understanding of the 
circumstances is outlined above. So I havent specifically commented  further where concerns  have 
been raised  about our understanding of the facts; my decision is based on what Ive set out above. 
And both parties  have the opportunity to make further representations in response to this provisional 
decision. So in summary:
It said we should reconsider our jurisdiction to consider the complaint and our decision to look 
at two complaints separately. 
It had never claimed that Mr and Mrs S were  experts  (nor insistent clients). Its point was that 
Mr and Mrs S were  experienced business people; they clearly  understood the investment and 
the concept of putting their money at considerable risk with the aim of reaping greater reward.
We had said that whilst  Mr and Mrs S were prepared to invest  in some speculative 
investments they had to be balanced by other investments to give an overall risk profile of low 
to medium  (being  what we had interpreted their risk profile to be). It said this was wrong. And 
we had misinterpreted  the relevant documentation (the wording as set out in page 2 above). It 
said it was clear  that the speculative investment was a standalone item and it was not the 
case they had an overall low to medium attitude to risk. It was simply  that if some investments 
were speculative/high  risk others would have to be low to medium  risk. 
The 24% (the investment in Majestic Village expressed as a proportion of Mr and Mrs S total 
pension assets)  shouldnt form the basis of our entire analysis on suitability. The fact find 
made it clear that the companys funds were also under discussion  (and that the 24% figure  
excluded those funds).  The correct analysis required  consideration of the whole portfolio  
including their business assets;  Mr and Mrs S overall  finances needed  to be considered. 
The proposed investment in Majestic Village  was to be one of the last high risk investments 
made by Mr and Mrs S. Consideration was also being given to further low risk investments 
which would reduce  the UCIS concentration. It was reasonable for Davies  Financial to take 
into account Mr and Mrs S future intentions as part of its financial planning. 
Although the proposed investment of £100,000 into lower risk investments didnt go ahead, 
Mr and Mrs S were  paying  around £35,000 per year into their pensions.  
The adviser  was required to take into account all the circumstances and assets of a client 
(COBS 9.2) and make any recommendation in that context.  It wasnt possible to separate out 
Mr and Mrs S business interests from their pension  funds. 
Davies Financial had been dealing with Mr and Mrs S for a number of years. Theyd formed 
their understanding  of Mr and Mrs S knowledge and experience over this time  based on 
hours of meetings and discussions  with them.  Davies Financial had a conversation  with Mr 
and Mrs S to ascertain their understanding of the product and its risks. It left an experienced 
investor certificate for them to sign giving them ample  time to read and consider the 
document; which they signed. We couldnt simply  allow investors  to abrogate all 
responsibility for documents they see, agree and sign.  It thought Mr and Mrs S had indicated  
they understood the nature  of the investment  to which we hadnt given appropriate weight. 
It couldnt  understand how we could assert  that the firm had failed to explain the risks to Mr 
and Mrs S. There were numerous calls and meetings  to discuss the nature of the Majestic  
Village investment. And UCIS property investments and their associated risks had been 
discussed in other meetings. The brochures provided covered the products risks. The 
contemporaneous documentation provided clear  evidence that the firm alerted Mr and Mrs S 
to the risks the investment presented. 
Ref: DRN035475441Mr and Mrs S were  aware it was a speculative investment that risked  its entire loss. The call 
log dated  9 October 2009  about the total loss of another UCIS   that Mr S was 
disappointed but knew  the risks to start with.
Mr and Mrs S did have the capacity to lose the entire investment and this was a relevant  
factor when taking the suitability of the advice into account.
It wasnt appropriate  to put so much weight  on the investment presenting too high a 
percentage of Mr and Mrs S assets at a point  in time. Investing  wasnt a rigid process. They  
were making significant further contributions into their pension.  Any notional percentage  
invested in UCIS would  be diluted going forward. This was all taken into account  in assessing 
Mr and Mrs S capacity for loss. 
If the ombudsman persisted with a percentage analysis approach  then it should consider the 
value of the investment  against Mr and Mrs S overall position  including  their business 
assets. Their assets totalled £918,593 (including a £400,000 valuation for the business  and 
£100,000 surplus company deposit).  So the £76,000 invested in Majestic represented 8.3%.  
And their total UCIS investments of £151,000 at the time represented  16.4%.
Given reasonable  projections,  the Majestic Village investment would represent  3% of Mr and 
Mrs S total accumulated  retirement assets  by the time they reached their intended retirement  
date in 2015.  And around 6.3% in UCISs overall. It thought  this was consistent with the 
figures the ombudsman previously deemed to be appropriate in accordance with FSA report   
a 5% limit for a single UCIS and 15% limit for investments in UCIS overall. 
It didnt  agree the 2010  FSA report referred to by the ombudsman provided for such  limits in 
any event. We had said the report was clarifying its position  on the issue. This suggested 
it had previously given guidance. However the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
confirmed this was the first guidance the regulator had published about UCIS investments. 
And no express view had been given  on an appropriate unregulated investment holding. It 
didnt think IFAs should have been complying with the examples  of good practice before then. 
It also didnt follow that all firms which  didnt  follow  the good practice examples were 
negligent. 
Its understanding  of the regulators initial concerns about UCIS were that certain  investor 
protections werent in place;  rather than about the degree of risk that they presented. It said it 
was possible to have a UCIS that was relatively  low risk. And that concerns about UCIS 
becoming riskier didnt arise until around 2011  even then this was largely concerns that 
procedural and regulatory requirements  werent being  followed rather  than them  being  high 
risk. 
Over the period that Davies Financial  was their advisers Mr and Mrs S had taken  
considerable risks across their various  business interests. And not all had been successful.  
The value of Mr and Mrs S business  formed part of their retirement  planning. The advice had 
been given on the basis that the business value would increase  each year and ultimately be 
sold at the most appropriate five yearly point through the franchise to provide  additional 
retirement funding. 
Mr and Mrs S had been running their business for many years and were  experienced  in 
dealing with complex business  related  issues. They were willing to take higher risks with a 
proportion of their investments. They were aware  the term speculative meant they could lose 
all their capital. In the advisers experience business people were  normally more speculative 
as the nature of self-employment  required an acceptance  of risk. It was grossly unfair to say 
they didnt understand the nature  of the investment.  
Ref: DRN035475442It noted that under  the Risk Factors section of the Principle Memorandum it warned 
shareholders that the market price of such Preference Shares can fluctuate and may not 
always reflect  the underlying valueAnd  it is conceivable  that they may not receive any 
return on their investment, or their investment may be lost entirely. Mr and Mrs S had been 
alerted to the risks of losing  their capital in the other UCIS  investments. And they were clearly 
fully aware of the risk of losing their entire capital when investing  in Majestic  Village.
Mr S was attracted by the prospect of off plan property investment abroad and had 
considered doing  so directly  but hadnt  got the available funds at the time.  
It said The percentage quoted of approximately  24% in this fact find and the subsequent  
suitability letter were correct,  as they related  specifically to the recommendations to invest  in 
the Stirling  Mortimer  Majestic Village  no 1 alone.
It provided a background from earlier  years  leading up to its advice  to invest  in Majestic  
Village. It said the value  of the business was increasing each  year and Mr and Mrs S had 
plans to make  significant  contributions into their pension. 
The decision to take or not take risk was with the individual. It was Mr and Mrs S prerogative 
as to how much risk they wanted to take. It was the advisers role to explain investment risk in 
such a way as for the clients to understand it and apply it to their own circumstances, and 
then to agree an appropriate risk strategy. 
UCISs were products  and not investments. It was wrong to classify them all as the same 
investment. Mr and Mrs S had experience of previous UCIS investment and as intelligent 
individuals they wouldnt have entered into high risk investments of this nature without reading 
the information they were given. 
Mr and Mrs S met the category of Experienced Investor as provided for at the time.  
It disagreed that the use of the suggested index  for calculating compensation was reasonable 
or fair. It didnt reflect  how Mr and Mrs S had invested.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint when  considering its merits.
what is the complaint about?
Ive summarised  what the complaint is about above. However the complaint letter  to the firm dated 25 
February 2015 provided more detail. It started:
I wish to register a complaint about the sale of four investment products you recommended  as being  
suitable for me and which  I believe to have been unsuitable.
The letter went on to list the investments and the reasons  why each was considered  unsuitable.  For 
Majestic Village concerns  were raised about  costs  and the non-disclosure of commission. The letter  
said the consequences  of the investment being  unregulated werent  explained. And that I do not 
believe that an unregulated  product is suitable for an un-sophisticated investor like myself.  In addition  
I do not feel that such  a fund is compatible with my attitude to risk.
When the complaint  was referred to us Mr and Mrs S completed a complaint form. They set out their 
main concerns which reflected what was said in the complaint letter  to the firm. And they attached a 
copy of the complaint letter.  
Im satisfied that the complaint is about the suitability of the advice to invest  in Majestic  Village.
Ref: DRN035475443has the complaint been referred  in time? 
One of our ombudsman issued decisions dated 19 January  2016 and 25 February  2016 outlining why 
she thought two of the complaints had been made in time and two were too late. I agree that this 
complaint has been made in time,  largely  for the same reasons. 
I think  its also material that Mr and Mrs S had agreed to take significant risks with this investment. I 
dont think an investor, in that context, would expect a smooth  ride. I think  it would be reasonable to 
expect some ups and downs. And I dont think  deferrals  of the redemption date ought to have alerted  
them they had cause for complaint. Theyd been told there were  certain  guarantees that applied  if all 
the properties werent  sold.  And some uncertainty wouldnt be unexpected  for an investment 
presenting appreciable risk. 
how many complaints were  made?
In deciding this issue I think what needs to be considered is whether  the expression  of dissatisfaction  
on the complaint form is about one complaint  or more. Complaint, as referred to in the DISP Rules, is 
defined in the Glossary of the FCA Handbook as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf of, a 
person about the provision  of, or failure to provide, a financial service or a redress
determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered  (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or 
material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity  of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom that
respondent has some  connection in marketing  or providing financial services or products, which 
comes under the jurisdiction  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
So I think the question is to identify what the complaint is about, and whether it is about  one or more 
provisions of, or failures to provide, a financial service that relates to an activity  that we have 
jurisdiction to consider.
Each case will depend on its own facts. And I dont  think there is any single  factor that is
determinative. But my view is that, in this case, its appropriate to consider separate complaints  
because:
Advice (the provision  of a regulated financial service) was given on separate occasions; the 
advice to invest  in Majestic Village  in May 2006 and advice to invest in Cape Verde in 
November 2007.
On each occasion  different products  were recommended.
Separate recommendations  were made and individual  suitability  reports  were  issued each  
time. This indicates a new assessment of Mr and Mrs S circumstances was made on each 
occasion and new and distinct advice was given.
In the circumstances,  Im satisfied that there are two separate provisions of a financial service, and 
the issues  raised  should  be considered as two separate complaints.
was the advice to invest in Majestic  Village suitable?
Davies Financial has said that Mr and Mrs S were intelligent and well educated clients. Its said they 
had the ability to absorb  and understand technical  details;  they had experience  of dealing with a 
variety of complex matters in the course of building  up and running  their business. It thinks Mr and 
Ref: DRN035475444Mrs S understood the investment  they were making  and the risks it presented.  And they were 
prepared and had the capacity to take those risks. Effectively, in its view the investment  in Majestic 
Village was suitable.
I accept that Mr and Mrs S may have been have been intelligent well educated clients.  They  had built 
up a successful business. And they had also built up significant savings  and investments.  They had 
also got some  experience  of similar types of investment.
However Mr and Mrs S werent pension/investment experts. The firm has said its never claimed they 
were. But the point being  made is that they had employed the firms services to advise them on their 
pensions and investments because  the firm were the experts.  They were paying the firm for its 
professional advice. It was the firms responsibility  to ensure its advice was suitable  for their 
circumstances (as provided for in the Conduct of Business Rules - COB  at the time). So this is the 
starting point.
My understanding is that the Stirling  Mortimer Majestic Village 1 Fund was a Qualified Investor fund 
rather than a UCIS. I note Davies Financial has said this isnt the case. However  there are numerous 
references to it being a Qualified Investor fund in the  Supplemental Memorandum  dated  12 April 
2006. The applicant had to sign to agree that they were a Qualified Investor  as defined  in the 
particulars. And they had to indicate in Part 6 - Qualified Investor  Status  under  which category of 
investor they qualified  professional  investor, experienced investor or knowledgeable employee. 
These types of schemes  are regulated, but have a more  relaxed  set of rules  and greater flexibility  in 
their operation; particularly in respect of their investment powers.  They  also dont benefit  from all the 
protections that would usually apply  to retail  funds.  These types of schemes  are intended for more 
sophisticated investors.
However having said that it doesnt seem  to me, in the circumstances  here in any event, that whether  
the firm treated the investment as a UCIS or a Qualified Investor fund affected the underlying nature 
of the actual  investment or the risks it presented. I dont think its treatment is material  in deciding 
whether the advice given to Mr and Mrs S was suitable or not.  Both types of investment are in a 
similar kind of space.  And Mr and Mrs S were  broadly the type of investor  the investment could  be 
promoted to. 
Strictly speaking, the July 2010  FSA report was about UCISs. I accept  the report  didnt set any 
specific limits  on what proportion of a portfolio could be invested in UCIS.  And the examples  of good 
practice relating to the 3 and 5% figures related to processes and procedures for firms setting  up 
maximum proportions of UCIS  in portfolios and ensuring they were monitored. I also agree that there 
wasnt any guidance that there should be a 15% limit overall.
However although  it related to processes, I think the implication of the example citing a 3-5% 
concentration of UCIS  in a portfolio was an indication of what  the regulator thought had been industry  
good practice prior to its publication in 2010. Whilst the regulator has confirmed this was the first 
guidance given about  UCIS  in particular, it didnt change anything  in terms of the requirements on 
firms to provide  suitable  advice which  applied  when the advice to invest in Majestic Village was given. 
Diversification is a well know principle of investment risk management. Although  there may not have 
been any particular  guidance about concentration given in 2006,  I think  the unregulated nature of the 
investments ought to have alerted firms that there were additional risks over and above  those that 
normally applied to regulated investment funds. So they should be treated with caution, and were  only 
likely be suitable  for a limited proportion of an investors portfolio.
The suitability report that outlined  Mr and Mrs S circumstances and the reasons  for the 
recommendation to invest in Majestic Village recorded the degree of risk that Mr and Mrs S had 
accepted for the investment (as outlined  above).  
The representative has said it was clear this meant the speculative investments were  stand alone  
items and it was not the case that there was an overall attitude to risk for Mr and Mrs S that was low 
Ref: DRN035475445to medium   - simply that, if some investments were to be speculative/high risk, others would have to 
be low to medium risk. 
I agree it was unlikely to have  meant  Mr and Mrs S wanted  a low to medium risk overall  albeit I dont 
think its meaning is immediately clear. 
The second  paragraph saying in respect of this investment [my emphasis} suggests it was a 
combination of Speculative  and Cautious to Balanced for this investment  which on the face of it 
suggests the singular investment of £80,000.
However the wording does  talk about  attitudes to investment risk and risk profiles  in the plural. The 
advice given was two-fold. For Mr S to invest in Majestic Village. And for Mrs S to switch  her 
investments in one of her EPPs to funds presenting less risk. So I think the use of this confuses 
matters slightly. But overall, I think it meant the degree of risk was Speculative for Mr S investment in 
Majestic Village and Cautious  to Balanced  for Mrs S EPP. This is consistent  with the recorded risk 
profiles in the fact find. 
So on that basis, I think the investments, when considered in isolation, were reasonably aligned to the 
degree of risks agreed for the two investments.
However, advice cannot be given in a vacuum.  And the firm appears to accept that the advice  needs 
to be considered in the context of Mr and Mrs S circumstances as a whole.
Mr and Mrs S had built up total pension and investment  savings of about £418,000  at the time of the 
2006 advice. Whilst I accept this was a significant sum, this was their joint provision. The fact find 
recorded theyd drawn £36,000 each in salaries.  Their  business also had a retained profit  of around 
£100,000. But this had been  earmarked to reinvest in their business. So they had good  incomes. And 
theyd built up good levels of savings and investments.  But these were between  the two of them. 
The actual income that sized fund would generate for two people at that time was a reasonable one  
but not exceptional.  Their  plan was for retirement in 2015;  but for Mrs S to start drawing an income 
from one of her plans  around 2011/12. So they had time to build up further  provision. And they were  
planning to make  significant contributions to their pension  during that period.  
I accept that Mr and Mrs S were continuing to contribute significant  sums to their pension.  And I 
accept that it was reasonable for the firm to take into account the business  and future  planning  in 
assessing the suitability  of its recommendations. However there are no guarantees that a business 
will continue to be successful. And I think the nature of the business assets and the future  uncertainty 
also needs to be considered  so that appropriate weight is attached  to those  assets.  I dont think  
theyd built up so much wealth by 2006 as to enable  them to take significant risks with a large  
proportion of their provision.
I note that there  had been discussion about Mr and Mrs S investing  £100,000  into lower risk funds. 
But by the time the recommendations were made the adviser was aware  this was not going ahead  as 
Mr and Mrs S planned to use the earmarked  funds  in their business. So the advice given was in this 
context. 
Portfolio construction isnt an exact science. Whats considered a reasonable proportion of a portfolio 
to invest  in UCIS (or similar type funds) will depend on the characteristics of the particular investment 
and the investors particular circumstances. I dont  think its in dispute that the investment in Majestic  
was speculative. And Mrs and Mrs S already  held around £75,000 in similarly speculative UCISs. So 
following the investment in Majestic Village  and the rebalancing proposed (Im not entirely clear if it 
went ahead but the plan was for Mrs S to initially switch one of her EPPs into 60% Balanced 
Managed funds, 20% Property and 20% Gilt and Fixed interest), Mr and Mrs S had about £155,000 
invested in speculative UCIS/Qualified Investor funds, around £170,000  in equities,  and about 
£90,000 in safer type assets.  And they had their business.
Ref: DRN035475446The firm has said the proportion should be considered  against  all of Mr and Mr Ss assets, including 
their business. This would be about 16.7% in UCIS. And using reasonable assumptions this would fall 
to around 6.8%  by the time they retired.  
I dont agree its reasonable  to assess  the amount invested  speculatively in 2006 against  Mr and Mrs 
S potential  assets at retirement date.  What future contributions will actually be and the level of 
investment returns cannot be known.  Clearly forecasting and planning  are valuable tools. But 
exposure to risk is during the period of investment. Its reasonable to take future  plans into account  
and its a well-known  strategy  to gradually  move into lower risk assets as an investor  approaches  
retirement. But that is from a starting position of being appropriately invested as a starting point. If the 
degree of risk was materially too high in 2006, the fact it would have reduced by retirement  date 
would be of little benefit if the value had plummeted some years before. I dont  think  a portfolio should 
be significantly out of alignment with the appropriate  level of risk over a material period  of time.  
Davies Financial has said that Mr and Mrs S certainly  came under  the category  of individuals 
willing to take much higher  risks with a proportion  of their investments and at all times were  aware  
that the term speculative meant they could lose all of their capital, as it did in other aspects  of their 
business interests.
I agree that the evidence does suggest that Mr and Mrs S were willing  to take risks with a proportion 
of their money. And that there was a risk of losses in their business. I also accept that they were  likely  
to have understood generally that the investment itself presented significant risks  albeit I dont think  
the risk of complete loss was made clear. Although the suitability report  provided general  risk 
warnings it also went into detail about the built in guarantees this particular  investment provided. 
The adviser  did however explain there was a risk of significant capital  loss. And I think its more likely  
than not that this is what Mr and Mrs S took away  with them and understood (rather  than the risk of 
total capital loss mentioned in one of the lengthy brochures provided). 
But I dont think their decision to invest turned on this in any event. As I explained above,  I think  
whats key is that Davies Financial was Mr and Mrs S advisers. Its role was of primary importance. 
The firm was obliged to assess all the risks presented by the transaction and consider whether  the 
degree of risk Mr and Mrs S were taking overall was appropriate to their circumstances. This included 
the risks that they were already exposed to. And then give suitable advice. I think  its likely Mr and 
Mrs S would have followed the recommendation given by the firm it had employed to provide expert 
advice. 
Davies Financial has said  it is important to note that as is the case across  the entire financial  
planning industry,  pensions and other investments and savings, plus any assets  earmarked for 
retirement benefits are considered together when looking at the amounts exposed to risk, as all of 
these are generally required  in combination for retirement planning. 
I dont disagree with its view, and in particular  that consideration should be given  to all the amounts 
exposed to risk. 
As Ive said above, appropriate weight needs  to be given  to the nature of the different assets held. 
The adviser  was aware Mr and Mrs S business was a franchise. And that Mr and Mrs S didnt own 
their own premises but owned the fixtures and fittings.  The value of the business  tangible assets was 
limited. Theyve said the franchisor owned the goodwill of the business  and its future  saleable value  
depended on how long was left on the franchise when  it was sold. So its value reduced over the term 
of the 5 year franchise. 
The firm said the value of the business was about £400,000 at the time the advice was given  (the 
£100,000 deposit was earmarked to be put into the business  by the time the advice was given). That 
is value would  increase and Mr and Mrs S intended to time the selling of the business  to maximise its 
value. Clearly I accept this should be taken into account.  However the value of the business  at 
retirement date was uncertain, wasnt guaranteed, and was clearly  exposed to the usual risks of 
Ref: DRN035475447business. So this should be given appropriate weight. I note the business  was valued at a significantly 
lower amount a few years  later. And pension  contributions were  also reduced. Whilst this is seen with 
the benefit  of hindsight, it was always a known risk, and reasonably foreseeable  at the time of advice. 
The firm has said the decision to take or not take risk was with Mr and Mrs S. Its role was to explain 
investment risk in such a way as they could understand it and agree to an appropriate  risk strategy. 
Whilst I agree that, ultimately,  it is up to a client how much risk they want to take, in the first instance 
the firm is obliged to provide suitable advice. The firm was bound  by the regulators  Principles for 
Business. It had to pay due regard  to the interests of its customers and treat them  fairly. And it was 
bound to take reasonable care to ensure  the suitability  of its advice and discretionary decisions for 
any customer  who was entitled to rely upon its judgement.
A willingness  to take risk isnt the whole  story. It needs to be weighed against a clients  capacity to 
take risks.  If a client hasnt got the capacity to accept the risks of an investment  suitable advice should  
be against investing in it. And an investor treated  as an insistent customer  if they still want to invest  
despite the firms advice against doing so.
Mr and Mrs S did have a good income  and had built up significant other assets. But their accumulated 
wealth and income  wasnt  to such a level that the monies  invested at higher risk (in total)  were 
insignificant to them.  If they lost them there would  likely be a material impact on their lifestyle in 
retirement. 
I think  the firm did alert Mr and Mrs S to the speculative  nature of the particular  investment and that 
the risk would be offset to some degree by the switch of Mrs S EPP to more  cautious funds. But Im 
not satisfied  it alerted Mr and Mrs S to the overall  position  the degree of risk overall resulting  from 
the investment  in Majestic Village by having such a large proportion of their wealth in 
speculative/higher risk investments. And the implications  of that risk if things didnt go to plan.
I accept that the fact find noted the investment  was about 24% of their pensions excluding their 
business assets.  But in in the suitability  report - where the advice was given - the degree of risk was 
framed in the context of Mr and Mrs S pension assets. Theres no suggestion they were  relying on the 
value of the business to provide an income  at retirement. The report  said the EPP from which  the 
investment was to be made was less than 20% of their combined pensions.  So I think Mr and Mrs S 
would have understood  it in this context.  And they werent  alerted that with their existing UCIS it 
represented about 37% of their total pensions  and savings. 
As Ive explained above, following the firms  advice Mr and Mrs S had about £155,000 invested in 
speculative UCIS/Qualified Investor funds, around £170,000 in equities, and about  £90,000 in safer  
type funds. This represented about 37%, 41% and 22% of their total pension and savings 
respectively. Whilst  I agree  that there are no red lines between  what  is and isnt reasonable,  here the 
degree of risk was clearly beyond what Mr and Mrs S should have been recommended  to take.
In the circumstances as set out above, I dont think the advice to invest in Majestic  Village  was 
suitable. Mr and Mrs S had built up reasonable levels of pensions and savings  again, it was 
between the two of them. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S had the capacity to accept significant  risks 
with a modest proportion of their money.  And that they understood they were taking risks with this 
investment. But by investing the additional £80,000 it was no longer a modest amount when  
considered along with the existing investments in UCIS. 
In my view the advice exposed Mr and Mrs S to a greater overall level of risk than they had the 
capacity to accept.  I dont  think investing another £80,000  in a speculative manner was suitable when  
all but around £90,000  of their assets (after  the changes) were exposed to significant  risks.  Whilst  
they ran a successful business its value at retirement was uncertain.  And although  they were planning  
to make further contributions  these werent guaranteed.  Even  if they were subsequently invested in a 
cautious manner  (which  I dont think the majority  were),  it would take some time before the degree of 
risk was reduced materially during which time Mr and Mrs S were exposed to significant risks. So 
Ref: DRN035475448there was a considerable  risk that if things went against them they could lose a significant proportion 
of the pension and savings theyd built up. 
In all the circumstances, my view is that the advice wasnt suitable.
In my view the firm ought to have advised them  to invest the £80,000 in a more  cautious manner.  Ive 
gone onto consider whether  its more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs S would have accepted such  
advice given they were recorded as having a speculative  attitude to risk for this investment . Or 
whether they would have insisted on investing at a higher risk. 
Mr and Mrs S werent  averse to investing  different  parts of their money at different levels  of risk. As I 
explained above, their recorded attitude to risk for the advice given  in 2006 was to 
have a combination of Speculative and Cautious to Balanced attitudes towards  investment risk.
Im satisfied that if the firm had explained  they already  held an appropriate proportion of their pension 
and investments in speculative unregulated schemes, a proportion in equities and the implications in 
terms of risks,  they would more likely than not have accepted advice from the firm they engaged 
professionally to invest in a combination  of cautious to balanced investments. 
my provisional  decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
I intend  to order Davis Financial Limited to calculate and pay compensation  to Mr and Mrs S on the 
following basis. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr and Mrs S should be put as closely as possible into the position  they would 
probably now be in if they had been given suitable  advice. 
I think  Mr and Mrs S would have invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely  what they would  
have done, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and reasonable  given Mr and Mrs S' 
circumstances and objectives when  they invested.
 
what should Davies Financial Limited do?
 
To compensate Mr and Mrs S fairly, Davies  Financial  Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs S' investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
Davies Financial Limited should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Davies Financial Limited  should pay into Mr and Mrs S' pension  plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Davies Financial  Limited is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr and Mrs S' pension  plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to them. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr and Mrs S' actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
Ref: DRN035475449I consider Mr S is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer  at retirement, so the reduction would  equal  the 
current basic  rate of tax. If Mr S would  have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction 
should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £300 for the distress  and inconvenience Im satisfied the loss of a substantial 
proportion of the pension  fund will have caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Davies  Financial Limited deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much has been taken off. Davies Financial  Limited should 
give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Stirling 
Mortimer  
Majestic 
Village No 1 
FundNow delistedfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bonds date of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in this case. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Davies  Financial Limited should  take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension  provider. 
This amount  should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Davies Financial  Limited is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should  be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Davies Financial Limited may require that Mr and Mrs S 
provide an undertaking  to pay Davies Financial Limited any amount they may receive from the 
investment in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges that would be incurred 
on drawing the receipt from the pension  plan. Davies  Financial Limited will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr and Mrs S paid into the investment should be added  to the fair value 
calculation at the point  it was actually paid in. 
Ref: DRN035475450Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there are a large number of regular  payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Davies Financial  Limited totals all those  payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead 
of deducting periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs S were  willing to accept some risk with their capital. But I think in their 
circumstances they only had limited capacity for additional risk. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to his capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I think a suitable level of risk would  be somewhere in between.  So the 50/50  combination  is a 
reasonable proxy for the risks Mr and Mrs S should have been suitably advised to take.  It 
doesnt mean that Mr and Mrs S would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed  rate bond 
and 50% in some  kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider  this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly  reflects  the sort of return they could have obtained with suitable 
advice.
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Davies Financial  Limited  
pays the balance.
determination and award: I provisionally uphold  the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated  as set out above. My provisional  decision is that Davies Financial Limited  should  
pay the amount  produced  by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including  distress 
and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, 
I recommend that Davies Financial Limited  pays Mr and Mrs S the balance plus any interest on the 
balance as set out above.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354754