K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about errors by his mortgage broker, TenetLime Ltd, during the course 
of a mortgage application. Mr M says this caused delay and resulted in financial  loss to him.
background
Mr M was purchasing a property and consulted TenetLime about a mortgage. He chose a 
repayment mortgage over a 25-year term, on an initial fixed  rate of interest until 30 April 
2020. 
In order for the application to proceed quickly, Mr M opted to pay a priority fee of £995 to 
TenetLime. The original  mortgage offer dated 5 April 2018  didnt  show the priority fee, so a 
second mortgage offer had to be issued  on 10 April 2018.
Mr M was unhappy about this. He said it delayed completion, resulting in his mother (from 
whom he was buying the property) having to pay additional interest to her mortgage  lender. 
Mr M also said that the second mortgage  offer showed that the total amount  payable for the 
mortgage had increased by £939.80,  which he wants TenetLime to reimburse.
TenetLime didnt  uphold the complaint, so Mr M brought it to us. Initially the investigator 
thought it should be upheld. But after receiving information from the lender about the 
mortgage, he changed his mind. Thats because  the figures provided by the lender showed 
there was no overall loss to Mr M. The lender explained that the figures quoted in the two 
mortgage offers differ because  the mortgage costs  change  daily. 
The investigator reviewed  the lenders  figures and thought  that Mr M hadnt suffered a 
financial loss. Mr M disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to review the investigators 
findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
The initial broker fee was £1,995, but Mr M opted for the priority service and so an additional 
£995 was payable, bringing  the broker fee to £2,990. This needed to be reflected in the 
lenders paperwork,  to show the overall  cost of borrowing, including all fees  product 
application fee, broker fee, valuation  fee, admin  fee   paid upfront either  to the broker or the 
lender. As no interest is charged  on these fees, they do not affect the way the monthly 
repayments are calculated, but will be shown in the overall cost of the mortgage.
The initial mortgage  offer showed a broker fee of £1,995. This was an error; the mortgage 
offer should  have shown fees to TenetLime of £2,990. Because of this omission, the first 
mortgage offer showed the overall  cost to be £304,330.56. Instead it should have been 
£305,325.56, including  the additional £995.
The second  mortgage offer showed the correct fees Mr M was paying to TenetLime of 
£2,990. The overall cost of borrowing was £305,270.36. So on the face of it, the cost of 
Ref: DRN03236302borrowing, when including the £995  in the second mortgage offer, has increased by only 
£939.880, rather  than £995. 
On the face of it, the figures  dont add up  because  one would  expect that by adding  in a 
fee of £995 which should initially  have been included, the overall cost of borrowing  would  
increase by that much. So I can understand why Mr M was confused and thought he was 
being charged the wrong amount.
The explanation is as follows. The revised mortgage offer issued on 10 April 2018 showed 
that, at the end of the fixed-rate period  on 30 April 2020, the mortgage payment would be 
20p per month less than the previous offer. The lenders explained that this is due to daily 
interest rate calculations  over the remainder of the term.  The mortgage  term would be a few 
days shorter, and this would affect the amount of interest charged as the capital would need 
to be repaid over a slightly shorter period.  Consequently, there is £55.20  less interest  being  
charged over the remaining term of the mortgage  after the fixed rate has ended on 30 April 
2020.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that there is no financial  loss to Mr M, notwithstanding that 
it was TenetLimes  error  in not including the £995  priority fee initially. Thats  because, 
overall, Mr M has benefited by £55.20 from the later mortgage offer.  Mr M is not (as he 
believes) being  asked to pay an additional £939.80. 
All thats  happened  is that the £995 fee hed already paid was included in the lenders 
figures on the second mortgage offer, and because this was dated a few days after the initial  
offer, the overall interest to be charged on the loan decreased by £55.20, meaning the total 
cost of borrowing  increased from the first (incorrect) offer by £939.80,  rather than £995. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms contention that the need for a second mortgage offer caused 
completion of his purchase to be delayed. In this context, I note Mr M says that his mother, 
from whom he was buying the house,  had to pay more  interest  to her mortgage lender 
because of the delay. But I cant take that into account because I can only consider a 
complaint against  TenetLime arising  from the customer relationship  between  it and Mr M. 
Ive looked at the lenders notes for the transaction. Im satisfied that, even if the offer had 
been correct on 5 April 2018, the mortgage couldnt have completed then, or the day after.  
Thats because the solicitors hadnt  sent in the Certificate of Title. The lenders notes show  
that this still hadnt been  received  by 9 April 2018. And when  the Certificate of Title was 
received by the lender  on 12 April 2018,  there  were details  missing. The lender needed  to 
request another Certificate of Title,  correctly  completed,  which  the solicitors had to fax over 
to enable completion to take place.
So in the circumstances, Im not persuaded any delay in completion is as a result of any 
error by TenetLime relating to the arrangement of the mortgage.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Ref: DRN03236303Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0323630