K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about the way Elderbridge Limited have handled her request to increase 
her direct debit payment amount on her secured loan.
background
In December 2017, Elderbridge wrote to Ms M to tell her about a rise in the interest rate on 
her secured  loan. It explained that, despite this change, they had decided not to increase her 
monthly payments  without  discussing things with her first, considering her circumstances. 
The letter said if she were to pay the new amount, her monthly payments from January 2018 
would be increasing  to £133.43. This would have been an increase of £0.66 from what  she 
was paying before. The letter also encouraged Ms M to contact them to arrange future 
payments.
In January 2018, Ms M emailed Elderbridge  to ask them to increase  her direct debit payment 
amount to £134.  She didnt receive a response  and so chased this in February, and again  in 
March 2018. Ms M explained in her emails  how stressful she was finding the situation, as 
she was worried she would get charged for paying  the wrong amount towards  her loan.
Our service was already considering a different complaint for Ms M at the time, so we raised 
her concerns  to Elderbridge on her behalf.  Elderbridge explained that if Ms M wanted  to 
increase her direct debit  amount,  she would need  to have  a conversation with them to 
ensure she could afford any increase  agreed.  They  also sent her an income and expenditure 
form in the post.  Ms M said she tried to call the number but no one answered, and didnt 
understand why she should complete an income  and expenditure assessment, when 
Elderbridge normally  just increase the payment amount  automatically.
Our investigator looked into things and based on the information  she had at the time, she 
found that Ms M had been paying the correct  amount by direct debit, and so didnt need to 
increase her payment amount. She thought  there seemed to have been a miscommunication 
that had caused Ms Ms concerns. Ms M was still unhappy that Elderbridge hadnt replied to 
her emails,  but they explained they dont correspond by email,  only by post or phone.
Our investigator recommended Elderbridge engage  with Ms M to agree a way of 
communicating with her, which is appropriate  for her needs. She also asked Elderbridge  to 
confirm in writing to Ms M what her direct  debit amount should be.
Ms M disagreed with this outcome. She didnt think it was fair her emails and phone  calls 
were ignored. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaints 
been passed to me to issue a decision.  Elderbridge have since  sent us more information 
about what happened, including  copies of the letters  they sent to Ms M.
Im aware Ms M has raised several other  concerns about Elderbridge in relation to this 
secured loan, but these are being dealt with separately by our service  under a different 
complaint reference.  This complaint is about Ms Ms request  to increase her monthly 
payments only.
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision on 9 July 2019. This is what I said:
Ref: DRN08249732Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ms M has sent us a copy of the emails she was sending to Elderbridge after receiving the 
letter in December 2017, and its clear from these  emails  how distressed she was about the 
possibility of her payments being too low, and incurring charges as a result.  Given the 
history of Ms Ms account, I appreciate this would have been  especially worrying  for her, and 
I understand why she wanted to ensure it was sorted.
Elderbridge didnt respond  to these emails. Instead,  they told our service that Ms M would 
need to call them up to discuss  her income and expenditure.  They  also sent a copy  of an 
income and expenditure form in the post for her to complete  if she couldnt call.
I understand why Ms M didnt want to have to go through her income and expenditure with 
Elderbridge to increase her monthly payments by £0.66. When her monthly  payments have 
changed in the past, Elderbridge have changed her direct  debit  automatically  each time, so 
she didnt understand why this time would  be different, and I can understand why shed  be 
unhappy about this, particularly for such a small increase.
I appreciate that Elderbridge had concerns about Ms Ms circumstances, as shed had 
trouble with the account in the past.  But looking at the account history, I can see that Ms M 
hadnt missed any payments in the year leading up to the change,  as her direct debits had 
been collected successfully. Considering the increase was only £0.66 per month, and Ms M 
had expressly instructed  Elderbridge to increase her payments to cover  that amount, I think  
Elderbridge should have  taken a common sense approach here and increased her monthly 
payments on her request.
This issue was never resolved, but following another change  in the interest  rate in 
September 2018, Elderbridge wrote  to Ms M to tell her about this, and that her monthly 
payment would be changing.  This time they did change the direct debit amount 
automatically, so Im unclear why they couldnt have done this earlier.
As a result, Im satisfied  Elderbridge should  amend  Ms Ms loan account  to reflect  what the 
balance should  be if she had been paying the £134 monthly payments that she requested 
from the February 2018 payment onwards. Any additional interest or charges Ms M would 
have incurred during this time should  also be removed  from the account   as if the payment 
had been amended, she would have been  paying  more than the correct monthly payment 
amount.
I think theres been an overall  breakdown  in communication here and Elderbridge  could have 
done more to help Ms M when she was clearly  distressed and worried  about her loan 
payments. Ms M prefers to communicate by email, and whilst  I understand Elderbridge  have 
said they dont  send emails to their customers for security reasons, I think  they need  to come 
up with an agreed  plan on how theyll communicate  with Ms M in the future, one which takes 
into account her individual circumstances. 
There are various things that could be done, from using secure  email  to nominating a single 
named point of contact.  When  it responds to my provisional decision,  Elderbridge  should  
explain what  it intends to put in place  for Ms M. When  I make  my final decision Ill consider 
whether I think its proposal is adequate  taking  into account Ms Ms wishes  as well  and 
direct accordingly.
Ref: DRN08249733Considering everything, I think Elderbridges actions have caused Ms M a lot of stress, worry 
and inconvenience  for something  that should  have actually been  quite straightforward for 
Elderbridge to address. As a result, considering  Ms Ms individual  circumstances, I think  
Elderbridge should pay Ms M £300  to compensate for this.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  
Elderbridge have also offered different methods of communicating with Ms M going 
forwards, to take into account  her communication needs. They said they dont have the 
facility to send  secure emails to customers, but they could offer the following:
- Written contact;
- The customer can appoint a third party to deal on her behalf;
- Field  agent, however this is chargeable to the customer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have  disagreed with my provisional  decision, or provided any further 
information, I have  no reason  to depart from it.
Elderbridge have said theyre  prepared to communicate with Ms M differently, as opposed to 
using the telephone. Theyve given alternative  options, and whilst I wouldnt expect Ms M to 
have to pay for a field agent to visit her to discuss things   I think  the other two options are 
reasonable, given Ms Ms circumstances. 
So going  forward,  Elderbridge will need to accept written  communication  from Ms M, and 
allow communication through a third party if she wishes.  If Ms M chooses  to email 
Elderbridge, whilst I appreciate theyve  said they dont currently have the secure  set up to 
respond by email, they should write to Ms M to acknowledge her contact and respond  to her 
 even if this needs  to be by letter. This should avoid similar instances of miscommunication  
from happening  again in future.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint and instruct  
Elderbridge Limited  to re-work  Ms Ms loan account  to reflect  what  it would have been if 
shed been paying £134 per month from February  2018, until the interest rate changed again 
in September  2018. This should include a refund of any additional interest  or charges 
Ms Ms loan account has incurred as a result of the lower monthly  payment being  taken.
Elderbridge Limited  should also pay Ms M £300  for the distress  and inconvenience theyve 
caused.
I also direct  Elderbridge Limited to make reasonable adjustments to the way they 
communicate with Ms M about her loan going forwards. When Ms M requires, they should  
communicate with her by another method that isnt directly by telephone. They  should  
Ref: DRN08249734acknowledge and respond to her email communication,  even  if this is by post rather  than 
email.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0824973