K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  regarding a transfer he attempted 
to make into an ISA investment account.  Mr A wants compensation for his lost income,  and 
for his distress and inconvenience. 
background
Mr A is a customer  of Barclays, but uses another business  to make investments on his 
behalf. 
On 5 April 2018,  the last day of the tax year,  he attempted to make a transfer to another  
business of £15000. This was to pay funds  into his ISA investment account before the tax 
year ended at the end of that day. 
In the morning he tried to carry out the transfer  using his mobile  app. This was unsuccessful 
and he contacted Barclays customer support using the live chat facility. 
He spoke with an advisor  and explained  that he was trying  to make a transfer.  The agent 
told him that the app would not support  transfers  of more than £2000  for a new payee, or 
£10,000 for an existing  payee. She advised  him to use the online banking  service which 
would allow him to make a transfer  of up to £50,000  to either new or existing payees. 
Mr A attempted to make  his transfer online.  The transaction  was flagged and stopped and 
his account was temporarily  suspended.  
Mr A contacted Barclays again using the live chat function, shortly after 13.00. He spoke with 
an agent who attempted to help him make the transfer, but as the agent was not based in 
the UK the system would not allow the transfer.  At around 14.00 Mr A indicated that he 
wanted to make a complaint and the agent  contacted a complaints specialist. 
Mr A then spoke with the complaints specialist  at round 14.10. The complaints specialist 
advised Mr A that the suspension  had been  removed and that he could  attempt the 
transaction again after waiting for 4 hours.  Mr A thanked the agent and left the chat. 
Mr A then attempted the transfer again at around  17.45 and it was successful, however the 
receiving bank had closed its ISA account receipts at 16.30 that day. It was therefore  not 
credited until the following day. 
Mr A continued with his complaint and Barclays sent him a response in November 2018. 
This response addressed Mr As dissatisfaction  with the mobile app not allowing him to 
make his transaction but did not address Mr As concerns about the fraud block  delaying  his 
transaction until after the deadline had passed. 
Mr A responded and Barclays sent a follow up response in December 2018. This explained 
that the transaction was initially blocked by automatic fraud  checks which  could not be 
prevented. It said that the bank staff had acted properly when Mr A contacted them  about  
the transaction and so it did not uphold his complaint. 
During the course of his complaint, Barclays offered Mr A £30 compensation for his 
inconvenience. He declined this offer. 
Ref: DRN02403482Mr A was not happy with Barclays response  and contacted us. One of our adjudicators  has 
looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that Barclays had not 
done anything  significantly  wrong  and so she did not recommend  it do anything further. 
Mr A provided comments and statements in response and asked for an ombudsman 
decision. 
I have subsequently made additional  enquiries with the parties and they have provided me 
with additional  evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my request, Barclays has provided me with the transcripts  of the live chats 
which Mr A had with colleagues  on 5 April 2018.  Mr A has also provided me with screen 
shots of the conversations which correspond with parts  of the transcripts provided by 
Barclays. 
These transcripts show the times of the live chats,  and the content  of the discussions. 
Through these  I can see that Mr A was advised  by Barclays, on the morning of 5 April 2018,  
that he would have to use online banking, or telephone banking, in order to make  his 
transaction due to the size of the transaction. 
He then attempted his transaction around  13:00, and the transaction was flagged  as 
potential fraud. Mr A is upset that the transaction was flagged and halted  when he had 
forewarned Barclays that he would be attempting this transaction,  however, fraud checks  are 
based on more  criteria  than simply whether the transaction  was anticipated, and Barclays 
had the right to carry out checks before allowing the transaction. While the transaction  was 
being investigated, the account was suspended and could not be used.  This is reasonable, 
and consistent  if a bank has concerns about an attempted transaction. 
Mr A contacted Barclays after 13:00 and began his live chat about  the account  suspension.  
Due to the medium  of communication the discussion was slower than it would have been by, 
for example, telephone, but Mr A was connected with someone  who could unlock his 
account within around an hour. 
The account  was unblocked and notes added so that Mr A was able to attempt the 
transaction again after a four hour wait. He then attempted the transaction  and was 
successful. 
By this time the transfer window for the previous tax year had closed. I asked  Mr A to 
provide evidence of his financial  loss and he has provided a statement showing his income  
from May onwards, and a note confirming that deposits received after 16.30 would be 
credited the following day. I have not seen any evidence of a direct loss and it appears  that 
Mr As deposit was credited the following day (although  I accept that he may be hindered 
from making further tax free deposits  in the 2019/20  year if the deposit was counted as being 
made in the 2019/20 tax year). 
Ref: DRN02403483I do, however,  note that once the transaction was stopped,  it was going to take a minimum of 
4 hours  for it to be processed  successfully  thereafter. As the transaction was only attempted  
by mobile banking around13.00 then there would not have been sufficient time for a second 
attempt to reach the recipient if the first attempt  was blocked. 
Consequently, I do not think there was anything that the agents Mr A spoke with after 13.00 
could have done differently. 
Mr As transaction was delayed by approximately 5 hours, due to fraud checks. Whilst Mr A 
may have  expected a transfer to be instant, fraud  checks  are reasonable and are provided  
for in the accounts terms and conditions. A bank cannot guarantee that a transfer will not be 
subject to these  routine  checks  and I do not think that Barclays  has done anything  wrong in it 
carrying out its normal fraud checks, even when these checks have slowed a transfer  which 
may otherwise have  been instant. I think that the transfer was made in a reasonable time. 
After the fraud checks I think staff acted reasonably and helpfully and, as a result, I do not 
uphold Mr As complaint.  
Barclays has offered Mr A £30 compensation for his inconvenience and I think  that is 
reasonable. I would  not ask Barclays to do anything further. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  for Mr A, but I hope it clearly  explains my 
reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not ask Barclays 
Bank UK Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0240348