K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he was financing through an agreement  with Billing Finance Ltd 
(Billing Finance) was of unsatisfactory  quality and that they havent  provided sufficient 
redress when theyve  allowed him to reject  the vehicle and end the finance  agreement.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in July 2018. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Billing Finance. At the point of supply  the car had already  completed 71,884  
miles.
Mr S experienced problems with the car. Extensive repairs were carried out but they didnt 
work and in September 2018 Mr S complained to Billing Finance. They  accepted the car was 
of unsatisfactory  quality  and therefore allowed Mr S to reject it and agreed to terminate his 
finance agreement  with them.
They refunded all four monthly payments Mr S had made to his agreement but they made  a 
deduction from his deposit of £1,144.50 based on the mileage Mr S had completed in the 
car. They said they were  allowed to deduct some payments  in respect  of fair usage.
Mr S was disappointed with Billing  Finances approach and he thought  they should return  
more of his deposit. So he referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator  provided  
his opinion. He didnt think Billing  Finance had provided the correct  redress. He thought it 
was clear Mr S had two months use from the car in the time he had it. So he suggested  
Billing Finance  keep  two of the four payments  hed made to his agreement  and return his 
deposit with interest.  He thought it was clear Mr S had been inconvenienced by matters so 
he also suggested Billing Finance pay Mr S £150 compensation in light of those 
experienced.
Billing Finance  didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion and they therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Billing Finance so please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN06610292The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Billing  Finance,  who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Here, there is no longer  a dispute  about  whether the car was of a satisfactory  quality. Its 
clear that it wasnt and Billing Finance  have  allowed Mr S to return  the car to them and I 
think they were right to terminate his finance agreement.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows them  to make a deduction  for fair 
usage. Im not persuaded that the best way to calculate this is by applying an arbitrary 
mileage rate to the miles completed. There was, after all, no mileage limit stipulated in the 
contract.
Our usual  approach in these circumstances would  be to refund the consumers deposit  and 
to add 8% simple interest  to this payment because the consumer  has been deprived of the 
deposit whilst funding  a vehicle that was of unsatisfactory quality.
We then consider the payments made against  the agreement and ask the business to refund 
those payments less a proportion, that the relevant legislation allows them  to deduct, to 
compensate the business for the use the consumer  has had. Here, I am persuaded, as was 
the adjudicator,  that Mr S had use of the car for about half of the time he financed  it. So 
Billing Finance  can keep  two monthly  instalments but should return the other  two. They  
should also add interest to these payments.
Mr S has had to take the car back for extensive repairs  and hes had to progress his 
complaint to this service  to receive a satisfactory  resolution. In the circumstances I think 
Billing Finance  should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused  and I 
would agree that £150 seems reasonable.
Ref: DRN06610293my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Billing Finance Ltd to:
terminate the finance  agreement and allow Mr S to reject the car at no further cost to 
him;
refund  Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
refund  two monthly finance instalments and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit  file in relation to 
this issue;
Billing Finance  Ltd may deduct anything theyve already  paid Mr S from this redress.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0661029