K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Yorkshire  Building  Society trading as Chelsea Building Society wont 
offer her a new interest rate product. She also says that it has recorded incorrect  information 
on her credit  file.
background
Miss B holds a mortgage with Chelsea. In 2017, following some financial difficulties, Miss B 
fell into arrears on her mortgage.
Miss Bs fixed rate was due to expire  in October  2018. She approached  Chelsea to arrange 
a new interest rate product.  But it said it wasnt  able to offer her a new fixed rate product at 
that time.  It said if she could clear  the arrears  or maintain  a payment plan over a sustained 
period it may be able to reconsider.  So she has been paying the standard  variable  rate 
(SVR) since then.
Miss B considers that Chelsea hasnt treated  her fairly as they have forced her to pay the 
SVR. She says that she could have cleared the arrears if it had given her a new cheaper 
interest rate. 
Miss B also complains that Chelsea has incorrectly recorded missed  payments on her credit 
file. She says this has affected her ability to obtain credit which has led to further financial 
difficulty.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said that she didnt think 
that Chelsea had acted unreasonably  in not offering a new product and that she couldnt see 
that it had reported incorrectly  to credit  reference  agencies.
Miss B didnt accept  what the investigator said.  She made a number  of points, including that 
that Chelsea had made her situation worse. She couldnt see how it was right for a lender to 
say that she couldnt afford her current product in 2018 when she was already paying that 
amount, plus extra  towards the arrears. It was unfair to then put her on an interest rate that 
was more expensive.  That worsened her situation   causing her financial  pressure  and 
stress, making her ill. Miss B added that she didnt think the specialist team  looked  at her 
case properly and it didnt  communicate  with her directly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
interest rate
Miss B has been through a difficult time.  Ive read and thought about everything she has told 
us very carefully. I can see how on the face of it, Chelseas decision not to offer her a 
cheaper interest rate would appear  irrational  it would clearly have saved her money. I 
know the impact Chelseas decision has had on Miss B. But after a lot of consideration I 
dont think that Chelsea has acted unfairly  or unreasonably when  it made its decision in this 
case. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN02522152When an existing customers interest rate product  comes to an end, mortgage lenders arent 
required to carry out a new affordability  assessment to offer a new product. But its usually 
reasonable for them to take into account  the conduct of an account  in deciding  whether  to 
offer a new product. 
If a mortgage was in arrears, I can see why a lender might be concerned that a new fixed  
rate product  wasnt  in a borrowers  best interests. The lender will usually incur  costs on 
lending on a fixed rate product. If the product doesnt run its full term it wont  be able to 
recoup those costs   and it will usually charge an early repayment charge  (ERC)  to reflect  
that. There is obviously a greater risk that a borrower might  not be able to keep up with 
payments if they have  been in arrears  recently.  And if the property had to be repossessed, 
the lender would either have to absorb  the costs or ask the borrower to pay the ERC.
Looking at the conduct of Miss Bs mortgage,  I dont consider  that it was an unreasonable 
decision for Chelsea to decline  her application for a new interest rate product. That was in 
line with its policy. But that is not the end of the matter.  Chelsea  has an obligation  to treat 
borrowers in arrears fairly.  It wouldnt be fair for it to decline every application for a new 
interest rate product  from borrowers who were or who had been  in arrears. 
In this case, I can see that Chelsea  referred Miss Bs application to a specialist panel  that 
considered Miss Bs circumstances and income and expenditure. The difficulty it had was 
that the income and expenditure form she completed showed she had a small deficit   and 
that was using the payment due under  the previous fixed rate. It also showed that Miss B 
had council tax and utility bill arrears. I think based  on the information available  to Chelsea at 
the time,  it was reasonable  for it to say that it wasnt prepared to offer Miss B a new fixed  
rate at that time as it wouldnt appear  to be sustainable. And I think  it had enough 
information to make a decision.
I know Miss B has been able to maintain the higher payments on the SVR and a contribution 
towards the arrears.  But it was reasonable for Chelsea to use the information  in the income 
and expenditure  form to make its decision  and it wouldnt have known that Miss B would 
be able to manage the payments.. 
I can also see that Chelsea  considered other options to help Miss B, but because of her 
circumstances there  was little it could  do to help. It did engage with her, communicated  clearly 
and didnt apply  any arrears fees.  I think  this was fair in the circumstances of this case.
Chelsea did say that it would be prepared to reconsider its decision. And in February 2020, 
Chelsea said it was prepared to reconsider  an application for a new product. I can see the 
argument that it might have been  reasonable for Chelsea to consider switching Miss B to a 
new product sooner than that if she had ben maintaining the higher payments on the SVR  
although that will depend on a number of different  factors. But that isnt the complaint we 
were asked to investigate here. And I dont think it would be fair for me to start investigating 
that matter at this stage   as I would need  a considerable amount of new evidence. It is for 
Miss B to decide  whether  she wishes  to raise a new complaint  about  the failure of Chelsea  
to offer her a new interest rate between its initial decline  and February 2020 despite the fact 
that she had maintained much higher payments.
Ref: DRN02522153credit file
Miss B considers that the way Chelsea records how her mortgage  on her credit  file is unfair 
and incorrect. For example, if the total amount of mortgage arrears was equivalent to two 
monthly payments,  it would record the mortgage as being two months in arrears.  But this is 
in line with good industry practice. I think the information recorded  by Chelsea is a true and 
accurate reflection of Miss Bs mortgage. So I dont  consider that Chelsea acted unfairly in 
recording the information it did on Miss Bs credit file.
my final decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Miss B, but my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0252215