complaint
This complaint is about the quantum  and way in which the redress for his complaint, which  
has been upheld  by Santander  UK PLC (Santander), is to be paid to Mr M by Santander. 
background 
Mr M was previously  advised to contribute to a free standing additional voluntary contribution 
(FSAVC) scheme rather than to join his workplace  added  years additional voluntary 
contribution (AVC) scheme.  
Mr M raised  a complaint, through his representative about the advice he received. 
Santander reviewed  his complaint and agreed that he had been  unsuitably advised. It offered 
redress for its unsuitable advice. 
As this was an added  years AVC the redress offer is based  on the rules of Mr Ms final salary 
pension scheme.  
Accordingly, the redress offered to Mr M from Santander is: 
 
A one off cash lump  sum of £9,178.14
An income of £1,108.96  per annum which once in payment will increase annually by 
inflation (as measured by the Retail Prices  Index)
On Mr Ms death in retirement 50% of his the annual pension income would
 be paid to a surviving spouse and indexed annually by inflation
Santander said its redress offer replicates the pension  benefits that would  have been  paid if 
Mr M had been suitably advised to join his employers added years  AVC. It takes into account  
that he has already  received some benefits  from the FSAVC  when he retired.  
It explained that he lump  sum of £9,178.14 is the difference  between  both the tax free cash 
and annuity income  that Mr M was assumed to have  received from the FSAVC at retirement 
and the actual tax free cash and income  he would have received from the added years AVC 
when he retired, up to the calculation date of the redress. 
Therefore, the lump  sum amount incorporates the shortfalls in the tax free cash and pension 
income between  taking the benefits from the FSAVC and Santanders settlement date of 1 
July 2018, and added interest.
The adjudicator reviewed the complaint and the redress awarded and agreed that paying the 
redress in a format  similar  to how he would  have been paid if he had been a member of the 
added years AVC was reasonable. He did not uphold  the complaint. 
Mr M, through his representative, did not agree with the adjudicator. 
Mr Ms representative says that it is unreasonable for Santander to pay redress  in line with 
the pension scheme  rules. Instead  he should be entitled to 25% lump sum of the total redress 
value irrespective of how the pension scheme  rules define how it should be paid.
Mr Ms representative also questioned  how Mr M will benefit from an annuity  with a spouses  
pension given his wife had sadly predeceased Mr M.
Furthermore, Mr Ms representative says that Mr M will need  to live to 100 to receive  the full 
value of the redress should it be paid in the proposed manner. Mr Ms representative says 
that Santander has wrongly  applied the ONS mortality statistics.
As agreement was not reached on the issue of redress, the matter  has been referred to me. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN0604905Mr Ms representative has asked for an oral hearing to put his case on behalf  of Mr M. Our 
adjudicator asked Mr Ms representative  on 7 May 2019 to explain why an oral hearing was 
felt necessary in this case and to provide details of the evidence to be provided  at any such 
hearing. 
Mr Ms representative responded by reiterating Mr Ms case  but did not explain why an oral 
hearing was necessary or reference any new evidence  to be presented at a hearing. 
But for the avoidance of doubt, I do not consider an oral hearing is necessary in this case. 
The documented arguments and evidence from both Mr Ms representative and Santander 
are sufficient in my view for me to reach a fair and reasonable decision.  
The crux of this complaint and of my decision is only whether or not Santander has properly 
applied the regulators  guidance for redressing Mr M. That is largely a factual matter.  So I am 
not persuaded an oral hearing is necessary.
I should say at the outset of my decision that in determining suitable  redress, my aim is to put 
Mr M back in the position he would have been in but for the unsuitable advice.
In this case, Santander has upheld  Mr Ms complaint. It is therefore not necessary for me to 
repeat here the details of his complaint, save to say that I note that Mr M complained he 
should have been advised to join his employers added years  AVC scheme.
I think it is reasonable to conclude  that Mr M complained because having  compared the 
benefits of the FSAVC  scheme with the added years AVC benefits, Mr M concluded he had 
been disadvantaged.
It follows that the basis of fair and reasonable redress should  be to compare  the benefits that 
Mr M would have got from the added years AVC option to those of the FSAVC,  less any 
benefit Mr M has received  to date from the FSAVC.  It would  not be fair or reasonable to 
redress Mr M such that he would now be better  off than he would have been had he been 
given and followed suitable advice in the first place.
The Financial Conduct Authority published  its guidance (FG17/9) in October 2017. It includes 
redress guidance in cases such as Mr Ms where a business is required to calculate  redress 
when an FSAVC has been unsuitably recommended.
I have reviewed  Santanders explanation of how it has calculated  its redress  offer. I have no 
reason to conclude  that it has not followed the regulators guidance  for such redress offers  or 
that it does not reflect  what Mr M would have received from the added  years AVC when  
compared to the benefits  of the FSAVC including those already received  by Mr M. 
In short,  I am persuaded from the evidence  I have seen that the redress  has been  structured 
to replicate the benefits Mr M would have obtained  from the added years  section of his 
former employers pension scheme. 
Had Mr M bought added years in his former  employers pension  scheme,  the benefits paid 
would have been comparable to the redress proposed by Santander.
Santander has confirmed  that the lump sum cash amount  of £9,178.14 is not 25% of 
£44,724.65 (the total capitalised value of the redress) but is the difference between  the tax 
free cash  and annuity income that Mr M was assumed to have received from the FSAVC 
since July 2010  and the actual tax free cash and income he would have received from the 
added years section  of his former  employers pension scheme  when he retired.
The amount  of £9,178.14 incorporates the shortfalls in the tax free cash  and pension  income 
between taking the benefits  from the FSAVC and Santanders settlement date of 1 July 2018, 
plus added  interest. Mr M will in future  receive  annuity income equivalent  to the pension  
income he would have received from the AVC at retirement had he bought  added  years 
rather than a FSAVC.
So the redress offer simply  puts Mr M back into the same  position he would have been in had 
he purchased added years in the pension scheme rather than contributing to the FSAVC.   
As I have said, that is consistent with this services  aim that redress should put complainants 
back in the position they would have been  in but for unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN0604905In rejecting our adjudicators assessment that the redress  offer is fair and reasonable, Mr Ms 
representative appears to have  discounted the benefits Mr M has already received from his 
FSAVC. In my view, that is not fair or reasonable. 
Mr Ms representative also asserts  that Mr M will have to live to age 100 years to receive the 
full benefit of the redress offer. That is not correct. The annuity proposed by Santander will be 
index linked. The effect of that will reduce the period over which Santander  will discharge  its 
redress offer and thus the loss suffered by Mr M.
But in any event, the redress, as I have explained,  is intended  to put Mr M back in the 
position he would have been in but for the unsuitable advice. The redress  compensates  Mr M 
for his past loss and going forward, puts him in the position he would have been in had he 
bought added years. And of course,  had he bought  added years,  he would have taken on a 
mortality risk. That is the unavoidable case now. 
In other  words, he is in no worse  or better position,  in respect  of life expectancy, than had he 
bought added years  in the first place.  
I was sorry to learn that Mr Ms wife has predeceased him. I understand the point that an 
annuity set up now with a spouses  pension is of no benefit to Mr M. But Santander  will be 
bearing the cost of the annuity.  If it chooses to pay for benefits within that annuity  that are no 
longer relevant then I cannot  see how this disadvantages Mr M.
For completeness, I should add that I asked Santander, in all the circumstances to reconsider 
its offer and pay the full redress by way of a lump sum. It declined to do so. It reiterated that 
its offer was in line with the regulators guidance. I have no powers to direct  it to do otherwise. 
Finally, I have noted that in his original complaint letter  of 15 September  2018 to this service 
and in a subsequent telephone call to this service  on 3 December 2019, Mr M asked that I 
review the level of commission to be taken from his redress by his representative. 
But as our adjudicator  explained, that is not a matter for this service.  It is a matter between  
Mr M and his representative.
I understand the offer of redress from Santander remains available  to Mr M. It is now a matter  
for Mr M and his representative as to whether or not to accept it.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020                             .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0604905K820x#14
Ref: DRN0604905