K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Halifaxs records show that Mr and Mrs S applied for the PPI during a meeting with the bank.
Both the mortgage  and PPI were in Mr and Mrs Ss joint names. The monthly  benefit  would 
have covered Mr and Mrs Ss monthly mortgage  payments.  It was split equally between  Mr 
and Mrs S. So if either of them had made  a successful claim on the policy  for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid 50% of the monthly benefit. And it would have  
done this for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time thats passed, Halifax no longer has copies of the documents that Mr and 
Mrs S signed when  they took out the mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats surprising  or 
unreasonable, given  that the sale took place more  than 20 years ago.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI. It wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect them to remember exactly  what  was said so long ago. So what 
they say about what  happened isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold the 
complaint.
In cases  like this, where  the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need  to decide what 
I thinks most likely  to have  happened, based on the information I have. Ive borne in 
mind that Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a 
long period  of time. Their home would have been at risk if they didnt  keep their 
mortgage payments up to date.  PPI provided  a dependable means  of ensuring their 
monthly mortgage repayments  were protected if either of them was off sick or lost their 
job. Ive also borne in mind  that were not aware  of any known  issues with the way 
Halifax sold these  policies at the time.
Ref: DRN00259642I can appreciate  that its frustrating for Mr and Mrs S that Ive had to reach  my decision 
without seeing  the documentation  they signed  when they took out the mortgage. And 
I acknowledge that they say they had no idea they had PPI. But based  on the limited 
evidence I have, I cant fairly conclude that the policy  was added without their consent.  
On balance, I think its more  likely  that they Halifax made Mr and Mrs S aware that the 
policy was optional, and that they decided to take it because  they thought it was a good 
idea to protect their home by making sure they could continue to pay their mortgage 
payments if something unforeseen happened. But I can understand how they may no 
longer remember this, so many  years later.
Halifax has told us it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. This means  it had a 
responsibility to check  that it was suitable  for them. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs S have told us theyd  both have been entitled to sick pay from their 
employers at the time if theyd  been  off sick. But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any payments they received from their employers,  and for longer.  So they 
could have used any sick pay they received to meet other  day-to-day expenses. And 
they wouldnt have had to use their savings  to meet their mortgage payments.
I acknowledge that Mrs S had told us that her parents could  have helped  out if 
necessary. But circumstances  can change, and I cant  be sure that Mrs Ss parents 
would have been in a position to help if the need  had arisen. Taking everything into 
account, I think that the PPI policy would have provided a useful benefit  to Mr and Mrs S 
if theyd needed  to claim on it.
It may be that Halifax  could have explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
the policy was competitively  priced,  and Ive seen  nothing to make  me think that Mr and 
Mrs S couldnt afford it. So I think its more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs S would still 
have bought  it, even  if Halifax had provided better information about the cost.
Its possible  Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover  (for example, 
unusual employment  situations or existing medical conditions). But based on the 
information provided, I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have been affected  by any 
of these.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including  what  theyve said about  not 
having had PPI on any subsequent mortgage. But this doesnt change  my conclusion  that 
Im not satisfied, in this this case,  that the policy  was mis-sold.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell them,  that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN00259643my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0025964