K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2003.  At the same time they bought  a 
PPI policy  which wouldve covered their mortgage repayments and provided  an extra sum 
for other expenses for up to 24 months  at a time if either of them  couldnt work.
Mr and Mrs G say that the PPI wasnt suitable and they felt pressured into buying it.
Nationwide chose to offer to pay back the costs  with interest in relation to the premiums  for 
the accident and sickness cover. But Nationwide hasnt agreed to pay back  the premiums  in 
relation to the unemployment element of the cover.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in relation to the unemployment cover 
should be upheld.  The adjudicator thought the offer to refund the accident  and sickness  
premiums alone was fair. Mr and Mrs G disagree   they think all the premiums should  be 
paid back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  I have only looked at the unemployment cover as 
Nationwide has agreed to pay back the premiums  in relation to the accident and sickness 
elements.
Mr and Mrs G dont dispute  that they agreed to buy the PPI, but they say they were  made to 
feel irresponsible if they didnt, and were pressured into taking  the PPI. They  say Nationwide 
didnt make any attempts  to find out if it was suitable for them.
I can see from the documents provided  by Nationwide that it made a general 
recommendation to everyone applying for a mortgage that they consider PPI. But the 
wording made it clear it was optional.  Mr and Mrs G hint that something more  specific was 
said to them to make  them think theyd be irresponsible not to take the PPI. I think its likely 
that any representative pointed out the potential consequences of not being able to maintain 
repayments, but I havent got any other evidence to support that Mr and Mrs G were unfairly 
pressured. 
On balance, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs G bought the policy knowing that it was 
optional. I cant safely say they were unfairly  pressured to do so.
Nationwide didnt provide Mr and Mrs G with a personal recommendation about  the policy, 
so it didnt need to check it was right for them. Nationwide  did need to make  sure Mr and Mrs 
G had enough  information to make  their own minds up though. 
Ref: DRN09547622Looking at the information provided to Mr and Mrs G I can see that they wouldve understood 
the benefit paid out for up to 24 months at a time.  They  wouldve understood how much the 
benefit was and how much it cost.  They  also wouldve understood that the first year of cover 
was free. They might not have known about  the finer detail of the unemployment  terms  
such as those related  to self-employed  people  but I dont think this wouldve made a 
difference to their decision to buy it, because they werent affected by any of the terms.
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs G lost out as a result  of anything Nationwide mightve done 
wrong and I dont think the unemployment  cover was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in relation to their unemployment cover.  
Nationwide has offered to pay back the premiums in relation to the accident and sickness 
cover. I think this is fair, and I dont make  any further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0954762