K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that a broker Saga Services Limited (Saga)  was responsible  for the 
cancellation of his motorcycle insurance  policy by the insurer. 
background
Mr N bought a motorcycle  insurance  policy through a broker, Saga. The insurer asked for 
verification documents. When the insurer received them, they discovered that Mr N lived in 
England to work for between 3 and 5 days a week   but then returned home to Northern 
Ireland where  he and his family  lived. When he travelled  back  to Northern Ireland, his bike 
was parked at an airport. 
The insurer  said it didnt provide cover for more than one address. So it instructed Saga to 
cancel the policy on their behalf.  
Saga gave Mr N notice of cancellation and a week later it cancelled his policy.
Mr N complained to Saga.  He said it didnt ask him if he had more  than one address when 
he bought the policy. He believes it should have done this and if it had, the cancellation 
could have been avoided. 
But Saga said it acted correctly. 
Mr N asked us to look at his complaint. He said he hadnt received any refund for the 
premium he paid under the cancelled policy. He said hed received conflicting  information 
from Saga  as to whether he needed to tell future insurers about the cancelled  policy.
Our investigator initially thought Saga had acted unfairly. He thought Saga should have 
given Mr N the option when he bought the policy to declare a second address. So he 
recommended Saga  pay Mr N £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it had 
caused him. 
Saga didnt agree. It said it doesnt offer a service for dual addresses as its panel of 
underwriters dont provide  cover  for these  circumstances. It said if Mr N had explained his 
situation at the time, Saga would have told him it couldnt arrange  cover for him. 
Saga said it issued a refund for the balance premium  to Mr N on 20 November 2018. This 
was a week after it cancelled his policy. Saga said it didnt  charge Mr N a cancellation  fee. 
Our investigator issued  a second view. He thought  Saga  hadnt  done anything wrong. Mr Ns 
circumstances were  unusual. We wouldnt expect a business to tailor its questions around  
every limitation. The investigator didnt  think Mr N had purposefully  hidden  where  his 
motorbike was kept. But he didnt think Saga had been unreasonable. 
Mr Ns complaint against the insurer  is being  dealt with separately. 
In December 2019 Mr N didnt agree as he said there were  factual  inaccuracies.  In January 
2020 he said he intended to provide us with further  information to explain why. 
As we havent heard  from Mr N, the case  has been  passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN09152732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
When Mr N bought this policy,  the question Saga asked him was where he kept his 
motorbike overnight.  Mr N provided the address he used in England.  When Mr N provided a 
copy of his driving licence, the insurer noticed  this was registered to his Northern Ireland 
address. 
I dont think Mr N has misrepresented his information  but I also dont think Saga did 
anything wrong. Mr Ns circumstances  are unusual and I dont think Saga was unreasonable 
not to ask every consumer if they had more  than one address.  A broker generally asks 
questions concerning the main aspects of the risk and wouldnt be expected to tailor  
questions around  all of the limitations  of an insurers underwriting guidance. In this case, 
Saga explained  that the questions  were set on behalf of a panel of insurers Saga arranges 
cover with. It said none of the insurers on the panel  would  provide cover for dual addresses.
It was the insurers  decision not to accept  the risk. So I cant  consider the actions of the 
insurer in my decision against Saga. 
Saga said it refunded £51.56 to Mr N on 20 November 2018.
A decision as to whether to record a cancellation is made by the insurer. So that doesnt 
form part of my decision. 
I understand the cancellation of Mr Ns policy will have caused him some inconvenience.  I 
think this was unfortunate - but I dont think Saga is responsible. As the insurer  instructed the 
cancellation, I think Saga acted reasonably.  And as Saga didnt charge Mr N a cancellation 
fee and issued a refund of premium  in good  time, I dont think it needs to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0915273