K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains to The Co-operative Bank plc (The Co-op)  that payments he makes to his 
savings account  with another bank arent always sent immediately, due to fraud prevention  
checks. Hes explained that the delays are causing  him inconvenience and a loss of credit 
interest. 
background
Mr G has made 12 payments to his savings account  at another bank and three of these have 
been subject to additional fraud checks by The Co-op. Mr G has written  to the banks fraud  
department, asking them to allow all payments made to his existing savings  account  details 
to progress without  additional fraud checks.  
The Co-op has said that, whilst theyre sympathetic to the inconvenience these delays may 
cause, theyre unable to do this as all payments are subject to random fraud prevention 
checks, as detailed in their terms and conditions. 
Mr G has also explained that, when The Co-op  sends him text messages asking him to 
confirm or reject  the proposed payment,  these  are received at inconvenient times. Hes also 
informed us that the phone he had at the time wasnt  able to text back - but The Co-op  
werent aware of this. 
Mr G has also complained  that hes experienced difficulties accessing  The Co-ops Internet 
banking. Hes also disappointed that he didnt receive a call back  promised to him. The 
Co-op have assured him that their Internet banking platform is compatible with his browser 
and have apologised that he didnt receive  the call back he was expecting.  
Mr G is also unhappy with The Co-op,  as he believes he overheard a member of staff saying 
that he had bad behaviour, whilst  he was on a call.
An adjudicator looked into Mr Gs concerns and did not agree that The Co-op had done 
something wrong. He agreed that The Co-op  had a duty of care to carry out fraud prevention 
checks from time to time, in accordance with their terms and conditions. He also advised 
Mr G that he believed  it was his responsibility  to advise  The Co-op of his inability  to text back 
on receiving a fraud check notification. He was also unable to find any call recordings where 
a Co-op employee  had said that Mr G had bad behaviour,  and was satisfied with The Co-
ops response to Mr Gs difficulties experienced whilst accessing Internet banking.
Because Mr G disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, his complaint has now been  passed 
to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN01936962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst I can appreciate how inconvenient  
it mustve been for Mr G to see his payments arriving the following working day, I cant  see 
that The Co-op has done anything wrong here. Theyve explained their terms and conditions  
to Mr G which say that, from time to time,  they may need to seek  further authorisation for 
some transactions to help prevent fraud  occurring  on customers accounts.
I think that The Co-op did everything they reasonably could  to alert Mr G to the transactions 
they wanted to check  by texting him, and I dont think its their fault that Mr G wasnt able to 
text or call back to confirm that the payments were genuine. I can also see that they 
suggested alternative methods of payment to Mr G, such as CHAPs.  So I think  that The Co-
op has acted reasonably in trying  to help Mr G to ensure his transfer credited on the same 
day it was sent.
I do think The Co-op shouldve called Mr G back when  they agreed  to. Whilst I can 
appreciate this mustve  been disappointing for Mr G, I can see that The Co-op has 
apologised and, under  the circumstances, I think this is reasonable. 
I mentioned earlier that the adjudicator had been  unable to locate any call recordings 
suggesting that a Co-op  representative  had said that Mr G had bad behaviour and Ive also 
found no evidence  of this. I have to base my findings on the evidence  available to me and, 
on balance, I am not persuaded this comment was made. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not asking The Co-operative Bank Plc to do anything  different. 
Im satisfied that their apology regarding the call back was appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Rebecca Kemp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0193696