K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt cancel a continuous payment 
authority (CPA) when he asked it to.
background
Mr K took out a loan with a company Ill call A. He gave it a CPA to take payments from his 
Nationwide bank account to repay the loan. A CPA works a little like a direct  debit,  except 
Mr K didnt have to sign a mandate  and A could  change  the amount and times  it took 
payments without giving  him any notice.
A few months later, Mr K contacted Nationwide through its secure messaging facility to ask it 
to cancel the CPA in favour of A. There was some  initial confusion as Nationwide  thought 
Mr K wanted  to cancel  a direct debit, but soon afterwards it instructed him to call its card 
disputes team if he wanted to dispute a transaction on his account.
Mr K wasnt  happy, and complained. Nationwide apologised  for the confusion  about whether 
he wanted to cancel a direct  debit or a CPA. But it said it wouldnt cancel the CPA unless 
Mr K rang its disputes team. And it noted  that A might be able to carry on taking payments 
out of his account anyway.
One of our investigators  looked into things and didnt think  Nationwide  had done anything  
wrong. He noted  cancelling the CPA wouldn't have  cancelled  the loan agreement  Mr K had 
with A. He didnt think it was unreasonable for Nationwide not to have cancelled the CPA.
Nationwide agreed  with our investigator, but Mr K didnt, and asked for an ombudsman to 
make a decision. He said Nationwide  should  have cancelled the CPA when he asked it to. 
He said because A continued  to take payments from his account hed been left in financial 
difficulty and struggled to buy food to eat. 
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
As a starting point,  I agree with Mr K that Nationwide  should have cancelled the CPA 
he had set up in favour  of A.
When he first contacted Nationwide, I think he gave a clear instruction,  saying  Please 
cancel my continuous payment authority to [A]. Nationwide responded to say If you 
wish to dispute a Visa transaction on your current account, you will need to call our 
Visa Disputes team directly.
I think Nationwides response indicated this was a number  to call to dispute  a payment 
that had already been taken  but that wasnt what he wanted to do. Mr K didnt want  
to dispute any transactions  taken using his card details, he wanted  Nationwide  to stop 
authorising future payments to A by cancelling  the CPA hed set up. Thats  something  
he was perfectly entitled to do, and I dont  think Nationwide  offered him a reasonable 
way of doing so. Nor did it act on what I consider to have been a clear  instruction for it 
to cancel the CPA.
In its response to our service Nationwide has said that cancelling  the CPA might  have 
caused Mr K further problems as the payments were  towards a loan hed need to 
repay. I dont  know whether Mr K was disputing the debt with A or what other  
Ref: DRN05472722arrangements hed made to deal with the situation. But I think that was Mr Ks 
business, not Nationwides. The regulator  has issued clear guidance that if customers 
ask their bank or building society  to cancel CPAs the bank or building society is under 
an obligation  to do so. Nationwide didnt and I dont think that was fair.
As a result Im minded  to uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide  to now cancel  Mr 
Ks CPA in favour  of A. But, having thought carefully  about  whats happened,  I dont  
think it needs to pay him anything in compensation or refund the payments it allowed 
to be taken. Ill explain why.
Refunding the payments
Our general  approach when thinking about  compensation is to put the customer in the 
position theyd  have been in had the mistake  not happened. In this case,  Nationwides  
mistake was in not cancelling  the CPA when Mr K asked it to. But Ive taken into 
account that the payments Nationwide  allowed  to be taken were against  a loan Mr K 
had with A. If the payments  hadnt  been made  hed owe more on his loan and may well 
have been faced with additional interest and missed  payment charges. So if I were to 
tell Nationwide  to refund the payments, Mr K wouldnt be put back  in the position hed 
have been in, but would be better  off. Hed have the benefit of the payments being  
refunded while also having the benefit of having  had those payments made against his 
loan. Because  of this Im not persuaded Mr K has suffered a direct  financial loss as a 
result of the payments being taken  and so I dont think  it would be fair to require 
Nationwide to refund them.
It may be the case that Mr K disputes  the legitimacy of the loan itself or that A should 
have taken the payments in the first place. But thats  something Mr K would need to 
take up with A.
Trouble and upset
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide should  pay Mr K some compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  hes been caused.  And I agree that Mr K will have 
been caused some degree of inconvenience by having to repeatedly  ask Nationwide  to 
cancel the CPA only to see payments continue to be taken. But Ive had to weigh that 
against the fact that, had Nationwide stopped further payments, Mr K would very likely 
have been caused more  hassle with A as he wouldnt have been making payments 
against his loan.
Mr K has also said that by not cancelling the CPA,  Nationwide left him struggling 
financially and unable  to buy food. Ive considered his bank statements carefully, and I 
find that, even  with the payments to A going out, his account has retained a positive  
balance. And there appear to be a number  of payments to supermarkets as well as to 
online fast-food delivery services. 
Taking all this into account I dont think any financial compensation is warranted as I 
dont think Nationwides  mistake has caused Mr K any financial loss or material 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr K replied  to my provisional decision to say Nationwides actions had caused him 
significant stress and emotional distress. He thought they should have to pay him some 
compensation for that. Nationwide  didnt  have anything  to add.
Ref: DRN05472723my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive not been  persuaded 
to depart from my provisional conclusions, and so I make those conclusions  final here.
I dont underestimate  Mr Ks strength of feeling about his case, and I can see hes going 
through a difficult  time, for which he has my sincere sympathy.  But Ive had to consider the 
particular impact of Nationwides failure to cancel the CPA on Mr K when thinking  about what  
it should do to put things  right.
As I said in my provisional decision,  the evidence of Mr Ks bank statements suggests that 
while payments  towards his loan have continued  to be taken, his account  has remained 
solvent and hes been able to continue  spending on things like fast-food delivery.  And its 
important to remember that the CPA was for a loan  which  would have remained payable  
even if the CPA had been  cancelled. 
Mr K hasnt said what, if any, contact hes had with the lender. And Ive had to weigh the 
potential hassle hed have had with that company, and the prospect of charges and 
additional interest as well as an impact  on his credit file, against the hassle hes had trying to 
get the CPA removed with Nationwide. 
Having done so I remain of the view that while Nationwide was wrong not to carry out Mr Ks 
request, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require  it to pay him any financial compensation 
in this particular  case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Nationwide Building Society  to cancel the continuous 
payment authority Mr K had given  in favour  of A, and refund any payments A takes from Mr 
Ks account after the date Mr K accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0547272