K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1988. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy called Mortgage Payments Protector with their 
mortgage in 1988. The policy was taken  out in Mr Bs sole name  and they paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs B and Halifax.  During that meeting 
Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs B aware  they had a choice in buying the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were told they had to have the policy  to secure  the borrowing. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs B have much  paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising  given how long ago the sale took place. But it does mean I have limited 
information about the sale. So I have  to decide what I think  is likely to have happened,  given 
the information I do have, what Mr and Mrs B have told us and the broader circumstances.
Halifax has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application form. On this form there  
is a section for the PPI which asks applications to enter an amount they would like to be 
covered for if they wish to take out the policy. On Mr and Mrs Bs form £150 has been 
entered. I think this suggests that a discussion took place between  Mr and Mrs B and Halifax 
about PPI and they chose  the benefit amount that best suited their circumstances at the 
time. There is nothing to suggest  the policy is compulsory and based on what I know about 
how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think its likely the optional nature wouldve 
been made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs B they had a choice  
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs B. So it shouldve taken reasonable steps to 
ensure the policy  was right for them.  
Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  Mr Bs in particular  as the policy  was split 100% 
to Mr B and 0% to Mrs B  they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  Mr B wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Ref: DRN05103622Mr B says he had sick pay benefits  from his employer  as well as being entitled to 
redundancy. But the policy wouldve paid out alongside these benefits. It doesnt  look like 
they had any other  means  such as savings   that they could  have relied upon if Mr B was 
too unwell  to work or lost his job. So it seems they had a need for the policy. Mr and Mrs B 
were borrowing funds  against a large  and long term financial commitment, which was 
secured on their home.  So I think having the security that their mortgage repayments  would  
be made if Mr B was unable to work  would have  been important to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But Mr and Mrs B chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of cover.  And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking  out the cover.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mr and Mrs B feel strongly and will be disappointed  by this outcome. Theyve put time 
and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve raised,  
but for the reasons explained above these  points dont change  my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Halifax does not have to pay back  all the costs  of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs B. 
But Halifax  does have  to pay to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Ref: DRN05103623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0510362