K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account sometime between 
July 1996 and January 2000. 
Ms B says PPI was added at a meeting  with the bank. She may well be right about that. As 
theres only limited information available now, Lloyds cant  now say how or when PPI was 
sold to Ms B.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagrees with our adjudicators  view.
 
Ms B said in summary, through her representative:  
she didnt need PPI because she was in good health, had no dependants, had good 
job prospects and was in training  to take on a new role  and was not at risk of losing 
her job;
she said she had savings and sick pay through work to make her repayments  from 
and her family couldve helped out too; and
it wasnt made clear that PPI was optional and she thought  she had to have PPI for 
as long as she had the credit  card. She wouldnt have taken PPI if shed  known she 
didnt have to have it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Bs credit card agreement from the time of sale.  Some parts  of this 
are legible,  but other parts are not now. So, I havent  placed much reliance on this. To 
decide what most likely happened  at the time, I must  consider the wider circumstances, I 
cant just rely on Ms Bs memory, particularly  given how long ago this took place. I also cant 
know what was discussed with Ms B, if anything, when  she took out PPI. 
Looking at the parts of the credit card application  I can read, and based on what  weve learnt  
from dealing with other cases about  the paperwork that Lloyds was using around this time to 
sell PPI, I think it likely that Ms B wouldve had to select a box on the application form for PPI 
to be added. I dont think PPI wouldve  been  automatically added without her selecting  it. So, 
based on the limited  information now available, I think  it more likely that PPI was added 
because Ms B said she wanted  it, knowing she didnt have to take it. I can understand why 
she may not recall it this way now, particularly given how much  time has passed.
Ref: DRN06283482Ive treated this as an advised sale. This means  Lloyds not only had to give Ms B important 
policy information in a clear, fair and not misleading way. Importantly, it also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for her needs. 
Ive looked carefully  at whether I think the policy was suitable for Ms B. I think it was. I say 
this because looking at the likely policy terms over this period:
she was eligible to take out the policy;
I cant see that she was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions on the 
cover. So, I dont think having more,  or better,  information about  these things 
wouldve led her not to take out the cover.  I think  she couldve benefitted from 
everything the policy offered;
the policy appeared affordable and Ms B couldve cancelled it at any time. I havent 
seen anything to make me think that Lloyds led Ms B to believe that she had to have 
PPI the whole time she had the card;
Ive taken into account Ms B benefits  through  work and her savings. But, I cant  see 
that meant the policy was clearly unsuitable for her. The policy wouldve paid out on 
top of her work  benefits. She said she wouldve got at least  three months worth of 
pay from work. But, I think the policy couldve still offered useful protection.  It 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim, so this was more  cover 
than Ms B wouldve got through  work.  The policy also provided life cover  too. I cant  
see that her level of savings, or the other insurances she may have had at the time, 
provided her with enough of a safety net to remove the need for PPI, or provided  her 
with duplicate cover. The policy wouldve also paid out in the event Ms B lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. I accept that Ms B said she had good job 
prospects, but if she lost her job, the PPI wouldve provided  her with cover until she 
got a new one.
So, I cant see that the policy was unsuitable  for her, in her circumstances. 
Based on what weve  learnt  about  these sales, some of the information  Lloyds gave  Ms B 
about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. For example, I dont know  if 
Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might  pay out if Ms B made 
a claim.  But, as Ive said, it seems  to have been affordable for her. And Ms B couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time without further  cost if her circumstances changed or she no 
longer wanted  to pay for it. It also seems  likely  that she opted to take out the cover. Also, 
she couldve  benefitted from everything  the policy offered. 
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Ms B 
wouldve made a different  decision,  if better information had been  provided. On balance,  
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. 
This means  Ms B hasnt  lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds may have  done  wrong.  
So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Ref: DRN06283483Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0628348