K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly over a number of years.  He 
approached them for help when he fell into financial difficulty  and asked for a consolidation 
loan  but they didnt  help him. 
background
Mr B has banked  with HSBC for a number of years. He also had a number of loans and 
credit cards with them.
In May 2013, Mr B found himself in financial difficulty and struggled to pay HSBC the 
monthly payments  for all of his debts.  Mr B asked HSBC for help  in particular,  he applied 
for a consolidation loan. Mr B thought  this would help his financial situation  by almost halving 
the amount hed need to pay HSBC  each month. But HSBC  refused his application.
Mr B spiralled into more debt  and ended up taking out payday  loans.  He blames  HSBC  for 
this as they didnt help with consolidating his debt. Most of Mr Bs debt has now been 
transferred to debt collection  agencies.
Mr B has made a number  of complaints to HSBC over the years.  While reviewing their 
decision to lend, HSBC  carried out an annual review  of how they kept Mr B up to date with 
the outstanding debt amount. They realised some of the statements they provided  Mr B 
didnt cover the correct  period, so they refunded some of the interest  charged. They  also 
paid Mr B £100 compensation for the time taken to deal with his complaint. But overall  they 
didnt think theyd lent irresponsibly.
The adjudicator who reviewed Mr Bs complaint upheld it in part. She explained she couldnt 
look at some parts due to the time which had passed. And she thought  overall HSBC  had 
acted reasonably to Mr Bs financial situation. But she did think  at times  they could have 
done more. The adjudicator thought HSBC should refund the interest charged from 2013 on 
the credit  card Mr B took out in 1993.  And she thought they should repay the interest  and 
charges from 2013 on the current account.
HSBC responded  to the adjudicator and explained that any refunds made would be to the 
debt collection agency  rather than Mr B himself.  And they said they were in the process of 
writing off the current account debt altogether  so Mr B wouldnt be pursued for any of the 
debt from the current  account.
Mr B responded to the adjudicator and remained unhappy. In summary he said, while  we 
cant look at what happened more than six years ago, he has been complaining for around 
five years.  And he wanted to know why the adjudicator could look at a loan from 2011. He 
also thought HSBC should have  helped him with a consolidation loan. And Mr B wanted  us 
to consider the time and expense hed suffered by complaining for the last five years, and 
the stress  HSBC had put him under by not helping  him. Mr B also blames HSBC for ruining 
his credit score.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN09374852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will disappoint  Mr B so Ive explained 
my reasons  further  below.
When we have two conflicting versions of events, I have to make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities, that is, what I think most  likely to have happened.
financial difficulties
Mr B has explained that his financial  difficulties  began  around May 2013. This was due to the 
death of a family member which resulted in him looking after two children. Im very sorry to 
hear about the circumstances  surrounding  Mr Bs financial difficulties. I dont doubt this has 
been a really difficult time for him.
HSBC havent  been able to provide  contact notes to show when Mr B told him about  his 
financial difficulties. But I have seen  they accepted reduced payments towards a number of 
his debts from around May 2013. Therefore, on the balance  of probabilities, Im satisfied that 
it is more likely than not, Mr B did tell HSBC  about  his situation. And they agreed to accept 
reduced payments.  
When a customer is in financial difficulties  we expect a business  to act positively and 
sympathetically and there are a range of measures that a business can take to help such a 
customer. This would  include reducing or writing  off interest  but it isnt the only option.  
However, based on what Ive seen it seems HSBC agreed to reduce payments and to freeze 
the interest for a couple of months  while Mr B reviewed  his situation. I find this to be 
acceptable in the circumstances.
In July 2013, HSBC asked  Mr B for an update.  As Mr Bs situation  hadnt improved, they 
agreed to continue to accept the reduced payments.  
In October  2013, HSBC  contacted Mr B for an update  on his situation.  I havent seen 
anything to show Mr B told HSBC he was still struggling  and while he wasnt making 
payments, I dont think its unreasonable that HSBC continued with their debt collection 
process. I say that because the letters HSBC sent Mr B when they accepted reduced 
payments makes it clear  the borrowing was still subject to normal  debt collection process.  So 
when HSBC sent Mr B default notices and final demands, he should  have  known the 
implications and got in touch  with HSBC.
I appreciate Mr B was going through a really  difficult time  hes said he was depressed and 
suffering from health issues due to the stress he was under. But I cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for that. They assisted him when he initially told them  about his financial 
difficulties, but he still had an obligation  to keep them updated  especially when they got in 
touch with him asking  for an update. 
consolidation loan
Im aware Mr B applied  for a loan to consolidate  all of his existing loans in April 2013. Mr B 
said if HSBC accepted his application,  it would have reduced  his outgoings by around half 
and therefore  he would  have been  in a better financial position.
Ref: DRN09374853But HSBC  declined Mr Bs application. They said he failed  external  credit checks.
Mr B doesnt  understand why HSBC carried out a credit check   as he said he wasnt asking 
to borrow more money. But HSBC said the loan was to pay back  around £11,000 of existing 
debt and a further £3,000.
Due to the time which has passed, HSBC havent  been able to provide me with a copy of the 
application form. So I cant be sure the exact loan amount Mr B applied for. But I dont think  
it makes an overall difference. I say that because regardless of whether there is further  
borrowing or not, lenders are obliged to carry out proportionate checks on a borrowers 
creditworthiness and ability to repay  a loan in a sustainable manner. Theres  no checklist  to 
tick off. Its left up to each business  to decide  its own lending criteria and the checks  it will 
make. Whats proportionate will depend  on a number of factors including  the size and type 
of loan, credit history and  the borrowers  financial  position.
So while I dont doubt a consolidation loan would have made Mr Bs situation easier, he 
failed HSBCs checks. So I cant fairly say they did anything wrong by not lending to him. 
I also note Mr B thinks HSBC ruined his credit score.  And thats because they didnt approve 
the consolidation loan which made  him fall into further debt. HSBC  are required to report 
accurate information  to credit reference  agencies.  And therefore,  if Mr B stopped paying 
towards his debts, or if they were  transferred  to a debt collection agency, its right that HSBC  
make the credit reference agencies aware. I appreciate  this may have had a detrimental 
effect on Mr Bs ability to apply for further  credit.  But I cant fairly  say HSBC have done 
anything wrong  by reporting accurate information.
jurisdiction issues
While the adjudicator has explained why we cant look at all of the events Mr B is 
complaining about, and he has accepted, I thought it would be helpful  to reiterate our powers 
when looking at complaints. 
I dont have a free hand to decide  complaints. I must  act within my powers  which are set out 
by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 along with the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys 
(FCA) Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules. These  can be found on the FCAs website.
DISP 2.8 says that I cant consider a complaint if its brought to this service  more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
-unless the complainant  referred the complaint  to the bank or to our service within  that 
period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record  of the complaint 
having been received.
Ive considered each  jurisdiction issue  in turn under  the subsequent relevant headings 
below.
credit card ending 6213 
Ref: DRN09374854Im satisfied we cant look at the selling (and therefore whether HSBC  lent to Mr B 
irresponsibly) of the credit card based on the DISP rules. Thats  because  the card was taken 
out in 1993 and the complaint was referred more than six years  after that date. 
Ive also seen that there have been  no credit  limit increases on the card for the past six 
years. And therefore Im also satisfied  Mr B ought to have known he had cause for complaint 
more than three years ago. From the evidence Ive seen, Mr B complained about the credit 
card in 2017. So it was referred  too late. And Im not aware of any exceptional 
circumstances which prevented Mr B bringing the complaint before this time,  especially  as 
he was in correspondence with HSBC regularly  since  2013.
I have, however, considered HSBCs actions when selling the debt to the debt collection 
agency as this falls within the time frames  we can consider. 
Ive seen Mr B made his last full contractual payment  towards the credit card in May 2013. 
And it was around  this time Mr Bs financial difficulties  began.  In July, August and September  
2013 Mr B made reduced payments of around  £31. 
I have seen however  that HSBC applied interest to the credit  card in the months they 
accepted the reduced payments. I dont consider they should  have done this  especially as 
they told Mr B the interest would be frozen while he made reduced  payments. 
Due to further non-payment,  and because  Mr B didnt get back  in touch when HSBC asked 
for an update on his financial  situation,  HSBC issued a final demand notice in January 2014.  
And they passed  the debt  which was around £3,700  at the time, to a third party  debt 
collection agency. Im satisfied HSBC fairly notified Mr B of this, and made him aware of the 
consequences of not paying.
However, I consider  HSBC should  refund the interest charged to the credit  card in July, 
August and September 2013  if Mr B is still being  pursued for this debt from the debt 
collection agency.
personal loan ending 1134 
Im satisfied we cant look at the selling (and therefore whether HSBC  lent to Mr B 
irresponsibly) of the personal loan based  on the DISP rules. Thats because the loan was 
taken out in 2009 and the complaint was referred more than six years  after that date. 
Im also aware Mr B was in receipt  of regular statements for the loan  and payments were 
being taken from his account on a monthly  basis. Therefore Im also satisfied Mr B ought to 
have known he had cause for complaint  more  than three years  ago. From the evidence Ive 
seen, Mr B complained about the loan in 2016. So it was referred  too late. And Im not aware 
of any exceptional  circumstances  which prevented Mr B bringing  the complaint  before this 
time, especially as he was in correspondence with HSBC regularly since 2013.
I have, however, considered HSBCs actions when selling the debt to the debt collection 
agency as this falls within the time frames  we can consider. 
Ive seen Mr B made his last full contractual payment  towards the loan in June 2013. In July, 
August and September 2013  Mr B made reduced  payments  of around £44. 
Ref: DRN09374855I cant see that HSBC applied interest to the loan for the time Mr B was making reduced 
payments and therefore I think  their actions were reasonable in helping him with his financial 
situation at the time.
Due to further non-payment,  and because  Mr B didnt get back  in touch when HSBC asked 
for an update on his financial  situation,  HSBC issued a final demand notice in January 2014.  
And they passed  the debt  which was around £4,200  at the time, to HSBC Recovery 
Services, which I find acceptable  in the circumstances.
personal loan ending 4486 
The loan was taken  out in 2011 for a total amount of £3,000.  And I can see Mr B complained 
to HSBC about the affordability of it in 2017. As this was within  six years  of the loan being 
taken out, Im satisfied  its within the time limits  for us to consider.  
I havent seen  a copy of the loan application, but I have seen the affordability assessment, 
The payments for this loan were for around £75 per month and based on the information 
HSBC collected  from Mr B, Im satisfied the loan and monthly  payments were  affordable  at 
the time of lending.
Mr B also successfully paid his contractual payments on time for around two years  until 
May 2013 when  his financial difficulties  began.  He made a reduced payment in July 2013 for 
around £28. And HSBC  issued a default  notice and final demand in December 2013.  They  
transferred the debt,  around £2,700, to HSBC Recovery Services in January 2014. And I find 
this reasonable  in the circumstances.
current account ending  3823
From the statements it appears Mr Bs salary stopped being paid into the current  account 
from around June 2013. This is also around  the time his financial difficulties started.  He also 
exceeded his planned overdraft of around  £500  in June 2013.
In July 2013, Mr B had a number of Direct Debits returned unpaid,  and HSBC applied 
charges to the current account.
While I appreciate Mr B didnt discuss the current account with HSBC in particular  when the 
reduced payments  were  discussed for his other debt, I think  they had enough information 
about his circumstances to realise  the further borrowing from his overdraft  was due to the 
same financial  difficulties.  And therefore, I dont think HSBC should have applied  charges to 
the current account.
Having said that, HSBC have confirmed they have written off the debt for the current  account 
and they havent passed it to HSBC Recovery  Services. Therefore, because  Mr B isnt being 
pursued for the debt, or the charges, I dont consider HSBC have to do anything  in relation to 
the current account. 
other issues
Mr B thinks  HSBC  should reimburse  him for the time and expense he has incurred trying  to 
deal with this issue over the last five years or so. And he says they have put him under a lot 
of stress and ruined his credit  score.  I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling about this. 
However, Ive found, for the lending Ive been  able to consider that HSBC  lent responsibly  to 
Ref: DRN09374856Mr B. Therefore  it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them to reimburse  Mr B for the time hes 
spent complaining to them.
I recognise they could  have dealt with some of his complaints sooner, but Ive seen theyve 
offered him £100 compensation for that. And I think thats reasonable. So I wont  be asking 
them to pay anything more.
I appreciate Mr B says HSBC have failed to provide him certain  information  over the last five 
years hes been complaining. But under the regulations a bank is only required  to keep 
documents for six years.  So while  I appreciate  how frustrating this must be for Mr B, I cant 
reasonably say HSBC  have done  anything wrong  in not still having some of the information,  
such as loan agreements.
overall
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC acted reasonably when lending to Mr B and responding to him 
when he found  himself in financial difficulties. I also find they were fair to pass the debt onto 
the debt collection  agencies when they did.
However, I dont think HSBC should have added interest to the credit card in July, August 
and September  2013 when they accepted  reduced payments from Mr B. So I think they 
should refund those  charges if Mr B is still being  pursued for that debt.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint  against HSBC Bank Plc. 
HSBC Bank  Plc must:
refund  all interest and charges applied to Mr Bs credit card in July, August and 
September 2013,
if applicable, apply  the refund to reduce any debt outstanding to the relevant debt 
collection agency (with any credit balance being paid to Mr B directly).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0937485