K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has poorly handled a claim 
he made under his buildings insurance  policy.
To keep  things simple,  any reference I make to RSA includes its agents unless specified.
background
This complaint concerns  events up until RSAs  final response letter in January 2019.  The 
events that have followed will form part of a complaint considered  separately  by our service.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties.  So, I will summarise events 
here. Mr A has had an ongoing claim related  to subsidence with RSA for a number of years. 
In November 2018 Mr A complained to RSA.  He raised a number of concerns about  the 
handling of the claim  including  various communication  errors  and related delays  and 
requirement on him to chase for information.  He also complained  of mistakes  within  RSAs  
schedule of works and other documents, and misplaced house keys that had been in the 
possession of RSAs  contractors. Mr A has said he in part had to manage the project  
because of the consistent mistakes he had to draw  its attention to.
In January 2019 RSA wrote to Mr A with its final response letter.  Within  this it agreed it had 
made mistakes by telling  him works had been completed when they hadnt, and that he had 
to chase for this information. RSA also said it failed to arrange an appointment with Mr A and 
had visited without prior agreement against his wishes. And it agreed with Mr As comments 
that its schedule  of works included inconsistencies which  he had to chase to be rectified  
which it attributed to a system issue.
RSA apologised  for the mistakes it had made, and it said it would  pass  back  feedback to the 
relevant areas to prevent  these issues reoccurring. It also offered Mr A £300 for the delays, 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mr A said RSA hadnt considered  all parts  of his 
complaint and hadnt given him a satisfactory  reason  or explanation for some of these errors. 
And he said RSA wouldnt  have appointed a surveyor to oversee  the entire claim if he hadnt  
complained in the first instance.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened  and upheld  the complaint. He said 
RSAs appointment  of a technical  engineer to oversee  future work was fair. But he said RSA 
had failed on a number of occasions to provide accurate information about the claim  which 
it had accepted. The investigator  said he hadnt  seen enough to show  these mistakes were  
deliberate but recognised how the reoccurring issues compounded the frustration caused.  
He also said RSA had mishandled a concern raised  about the missing  key and shouldve 
taken responsibility  for the actions of its contractors.
The investigator explained our service  was unable to make  commercial directions to RSA 
about the operation of its business or root cause analysis on the problems that occurred  
and instead he had looked at the impact of the issue and how to put this right.  And overall he 
said RSA should  pay Mr A £750  in total for the distress and inconvenience caused.
We didnt hear back from RSA, but Mr A replied with his thoughts  which Ive summarised 
below. 
Ref: DRN03424532It had been  two sets of house  keys that had not been returned  to Mr A initially  (not 
one), and RSA had unfairly relied  on its contractors  word on the matter  despite 
previous issues with the same  agent  demonstrating they were not reliable.
RSAs response to provide training was not adequate as a solution, and instead  it 
should provide  an explanation to how its internal controls could allow  these mistakes 
to be made;
RSAs mistake around the final schedule of works was worsened as it inaccurately 
attributed this to a system  issue and not a human  error  or negligence;
Mr A reiterated his concerns about RSAs  agent  misleading him, and his belief that 
the contractors had intentionally  deceived  him about the claim proceeding; and
RSA failed to consider  all parts of his complaint.
Mr A has also said he was grateful  for the investigators findings,  but felt the compensation 
awarded didnt  reflect the impact of RSAs mistakes and mismanagement  of the claim.  So 
the complaint  has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint and largely for the same  reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why. Mr A has said he accepts that the problems  related  to the 
schedules, RSAs incorrect  insistence  that works were completed, and finalising the claim 
prematurely have now been put right. I also understand  Mr A also had his two sets of house 
keys returned  after some back and forth. 
Put simply, it seems to me the issues Mr A has raised are now resolved. And RSA for the 
most part has accepted the majority  of these failings, agreeing it had made various mistakes.  
It hasnt responded  on the topic of the missing keys. But having considered it myself, I agree 
with our investigator and Im satisfied it was wrong  for RSA to not take responsibility or 
attempt to resolve this matter which led to further problems for Mr A.
The matter  that remains in dispute is how these  mistakes  came about or were  allowed to 
happen. Mr A has said the problems are indicative of fundamental failings in the internal 
controls of RSAs agent. And hes explained  in detail how he would like an explanation to 
how its internal controls over the management of this project could  be so poor as to allow  the 
problems to have  occurred. Hes also said its clear that some  of the miscommunication on 
RSAs part was intentional.
I can understand Mr As frustration and reasons for wanting an explanation for each of these 
issues. But my role isnt that of the regulator  or to carry out a forensic analysis of how things 
may have  gone  wrong. And instead I have focused on whether the claim has progressed as 
it should have  done so  taking into account RSAs  obligations under the relevant rules. And 
if things have gone wrong,  Ive then considered the impact of this on Mr A.
I acknowledge Mr A believes RSA intentionally kept information from him about the progress 
of the claim. Ive considered the evidence hes presented to support this, but Im not 
persuaded this is enough  to safely conclude this accusation is most likely.
However, Im satisfied RSAs handling  of this claim was neither prompt nor fair, and on a 
number of occasions it didnt provide appropriate  information on the progression of the claim 
Ref: DRN03424533as it should have done so (whether intentional or not). In turn Ive thought  about  the impact  
of this on Mr A. Hes detailed the impact  RSAs mistakes have had on him and the level of 
effort he has had to personally put in to have the claim progressed.  I dont  doubt  this and 
having looked over the life of the claim I think Mr A has remained very patient and measured  
in response to a series  of mistakes that he shouldnt have had to have dealt with. 
Having considered this carefully,  Im persuaded that RSA should  increase its settlement to 
£750 in light of the impact of its mistakes.
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay Mr A £750. From 
this it may deduct £300 if its previous offer has been  already  paid.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0342453