K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 
alongside an M&S card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance plc, as the insurer,  should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to Allianz throughout my 
decision.
Ms S says Allianz mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator  didnt think this complaint should  be 
upheld. Ms S disagreed so the complaint has been brought  to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms S says she was told that if she didnt take the PPI she wouldnt get approved for the M&S 
card. Ive considered what Ms S has said and while I think these are her honest recollections 
of the sale, without any evidence to support what shes said I cant  fairly and reasonably 
uphold the complaint on this point.
Ive looked closely  at Ms Ss application  form and I can see in the section for PPI there  is a 
tick in the box to agree to the cover. In this section Ms Ss name and date of birth has also 
been written in the box to confirm she is the applicant  for the cover.  But there  is nothing  to 
suggest the cover had to be taken in order to get the policy.  Ms S signed this application 
form to agree to its contents  so without  any stronger evidence to the contrary,  I think this 
reflected what she wanted at the time. So overall, I think its more  likely than not Allianz  
made it clear  that Ms S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Ms S says the PPI was recommended  to her. But based on the evidence  and from what 
weve seen of these  types of sales previously, I dont think  Allianz  recommend  the PPI to 
Ms S so it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Ms S got 
the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the evidence suggests that she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
Ms S also hasnt told us about any sick pay or savings  she had at the time  so based on 
what Ive been  told I think it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about what Ms S has said about how Allianz handled her complaint. So I 
considered the evidence  provided by both parties, including  evidence  from Allianz of the 
timeline of the complaint and copy of the letters it says it sent to Ms S. From what  Ive seen I 
Ref: DRN05396642dont think Allianz  caused  any unnecessary delays or handled  her complaint incorrectly - and 
so I dont think Ms S is due any compensation for the way in which  Allianz handled her 
complaint.
Ive also considered what Ms S has said about  Allianz admitting to her over the phone that it 
had mis-sold her the PPI. But Ms S has brought her complaint  to our Service  for us to 
consider, and as Ive outlined above  Ive not seen any reason why I think  the policy  was mis-
sold. So this point doesnt change my decision.    
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0539664