K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester  at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the PPI policy in 1999 at the same time as taking a mortgage.  They 
applied for the policy and mortgage at a meeting  in a branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs G for disability and unemployment - subject  to its 
exclusions and limitations. The full benefit would  pay Mr and Mrs Gs monthly mortgage 
payment (around  £288 at the time of the mortgage  offer)  plus £3 for every £1000  of their 
initial mortgage (around £120) and premiums for certain associated  insurances if those 
insurances were taken with Lloyds.  Half the benefit would be paid for a successful claim by 
either Mr or Mrs G. The policy  was expected to cost £20.43 according to its schedule.
Mr G was an artisan and Mrs G worked  as a finance  officer.  Mr and Mrs G have said Mrs G 
had been in her job for less than three months. But the mortgage  application they signed  
says Mr G had been  in his employment for around  14 years and Mrs G for around two and a 
half years   and I think this is more likely to reflect the situation at the time. Mr and Mrs G 
have said they were entitled to no more than statutory sickness  and redundancy pay and 
didnt have any other means  with which to repay their mortgage if they couldnt work.
Mr and Mrs G have told us Mrs G was in good  health at the time. Theyve told us Mr G had 
the odd day off work due to back and joint problems that first occurred nine years earlier. 
Lloyds has sent us a mortgage loan agreement and screenshots to show  that Mr and Mrs G 
entered a new mortgage agreement in November 2004 that covered their existing borrowing 
and a further advance.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Gs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr and Mrs G 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs G and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN02335292The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-  term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs G arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN02335293The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
Ref: DRN02335294suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below.
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs G have said they had no 
interest in PPI and it was just included as part of the package with their mortgage. But their 
mortgage application had boxes to tick to say either yes or no to whether theyd received 
information about the PPI and wanted to apply for it. The yes box on the form is ticked and I 
think Mr and Mrs G wouldve  known they could  tick no instead if they didnt want the cover.  
They also signed  a separate PPI application  form to take the cover. So, it looks  like the PPI 
was presented as separate from the mortgage itself - and optional. Taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  Mr and Mrs G knew the policy  was optional and agreed to 
take it without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds didnt give advice  or recommend they take the PPI. Lloyds  says it 
did provide advice during the sale. If Lloyds  did provide advice, it had to do more. With that 
in mind, I think its fair to proceed on the basis that Lloyds gave advice. This means Lloyds 
had to advise  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  
was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs G. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application  for example their incomes and lengths 
of service. But I dont think Lloyds did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable and establish 
Mr and Mrs G had a need for it. For example Ive nothing  to show  that Lloyds asked them 
what redundancy or sickness benefits  their employers provided. The declaration signed by 
Mr and Mrs G on the PPI application, asked that they confirm that they were working at least  
16 hours and werent aware of any impending unemployment or hospitalisation or receiving 
treatment for conditions of a persistent  or recurring nature. But I cant  see that Lloyds  had 
established that all of this was so before giving Mr and Mrs G the application to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs G met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN02335295-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy. Aside  from statutory pay, they wouldnt receive 
any pay if they suffered redundancy or were unable  to work due to disability.  So they 
wouldve suffered  a significant loss of income if either Mr or Mrs G became unemployed 
or too sick to work. Also they didnt have savings  or anything else to help replace that 
lost income. So the policy benefit wouldve helped them  manage the consequences if 
either one of them lost their income. Also such  a loss of income, particularly  if prolonged, 
mightve put Mr and Mrs Gs finances under strain without the policy  benefit.
-Although Mr and Mrs G say they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable when they took it.
-There was nothing  about Mr or Mrs Gs employment or occupations that wouldve made 
it difficult for them  to claim.  Mrs G wasnt affected by the exclusion relating to existing 
health issues, as she was in good  health. Mr G had health issues  that in the past had led 
to occasional but short absences from work. He couldnt have claimed the disability 
benefit for incapacity related to those existing issues during  the first 24 months  of cover  
but such claims werent excluded after that. Taking all this into account,  and bearing  in 
mind the long term nature of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage liability and the potential value to 
them of cover arising in future  for Mr Gs existing  health issues, I dont think  the policy  
exclusions and limitations made the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs G. Also there were 
no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental  health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the fact no benefit  was payable for the first 60 days  of 
disability or unemployment and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, including their lack of employee sickness and 
redundancy cover, the absence of savings and, apart from the others income, the 
absence of other means to make payments if Mr or Mrs G lost their income - which  
meant in the event  of a successful claim the policy  benefit would play an important 
role in helping  them with their mortgage  payments; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr and Mrs Gs 
home and the potential  consequences should  they be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr or Mrs G were unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs G 
would have taken  the policy without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much 
the premium might  be.
Ref: DRN02335296But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr and Mrs G agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs G suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it shouldve  done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs G. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  the policy, had Lloyds done things properly.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
Ref: DRN02335297properly, Mr and Mrs G would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  offered the PPI or advised them there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs G the exact  premium  at the point they applied for 
the policy. But I consider it more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs G knew  they would have to 
pay something for the policy, and were made aware of the approximate costs.  I also bear in 
mind that the actual  premium was set out on a policy schedule sent to Mr and Mrs G when  
the policy began - so if this was significantly at odds with what Mr and Mrs G had expected  
at the point of sale its possible they might have raised this with Lloyds at the time or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs G would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs G would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its likely they expected,  if 
they werent also told, that in the event of a claim the policy  would pay an amount sufficient 
to meet  their monthly mortgage payment.  So I think the policy at least met Mr and Mrs Gs 
likely expectations about that and, if anything, actually paid more  in the event of a claim than 
they would  have expected  - as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability during the first 24 months  if this was due to any 
health issue Mr or Mrs G knew or ought to have known about  at the policy  start date or 
had seen or arranged to see a doctor  for in the 12 months before the policy  start date; 
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  cover  for those who 
werent permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr or Mrs G not only 
be unable to do his or her own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer  
Ref: DRN02335298thought he or she was or might  reasonably  become qualified for in view of his or her 
training, education  and ability;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. 
Mr G wasnt covered for disability that was due to his existing health issues during the first 
24 months of cover.  But those issues had only led to occasional  and short  absences  from 
work in the past, the policy wouldnt exclude  disability  claims due to existing health issues 
after the first 24 months of cover and the mortgage was a long term liability.  Also it was 
possible that Mr G might in future  have  longer  absences from work due to his health issues  
so the fact the cover would extend  to cover existing health issues  after two years was 
something that was potentially  of value for Mr and Mrs G. Taking everything into account I 
dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put Mr and Mrs G off taking 
the PPI. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  they wouldve been  caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So I think they still had some good reasons to take the 
policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs G would have expected to make  a disability  claim  on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs G had known they could only claim for disability if he or she were  not only 
unable to do his or her own job but also unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he 
or she was or might reasonably become  qualified  for in view of his or her training, education 
and ability, it might have played into their thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have  
given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been  too concerned 
given that if Mr or Mrs G was unable (through disability) to do their own job, the chances that 
he or she would  be able to take up a similar job would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs G that the first 60 days of disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and it may not have  told them  that any claim they made  would be 
limited to a 12 month period. All this may have differed from what  Mr and Mrs G expected  
and might have hoped for. But, aside from statutory benefits and the others income,  Mr and 
Mrs G had no other means to fall back on. In those  circumstances,  I consider it likely they 
would still have thought a policy that after 60 days paid the mortgage  payments for up to 12 
months, would  be of benefit  to them and would help them manage the consequences if Mr or 
Mrs G couldnt work  in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for 
Ref: DRN02335299multiple claims to be made  and it could help reduce Mr and Mrs Gs outgoings at a difficult 
and uncertain time, helping to make it less likely their home would be placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken the policy. The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr or Mrs G were made redundant or 
became unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs G would have taken the policy in any event notwithstanding  
the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred.
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G would still 
have taken the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN023352910Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs G and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0233529