K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way Skipton Building Society  has treated them  in relation 
to their mortgage account. They  complain  Skipton took legal action to repossess their 
property unfairly, and are also unhappy about  how they were treated after the repossession 
took place.
background
Mr and Mrs G had an interest-only mortgage with Skipton, the term of which  ended  in 2015. 
In 2009 Mr and Mrs G separated and Mr G left the property. Mrs G remained in the property  
paying the mortgage payments. Unfortunately, Mrs G fell into financial difficulty, and so 
arrears built on the mortgage  account  over the years. In 2016 Skipton began legal action to 
recover the outstanding balance of the mortgage, including the arrears  that had built up over 
time.
The court issued a warrant for possession, and a notice  of eviction was eventually  issued 
with an eviction date of 2 May 2018. The house  was then sold,  and the mortgage balance  
was redeemed.
Mrs G complained to Skipton about how shed been  treated throughout this process. Our 
service has considered Mrs Gs concerns, with Mr Gs consent, about  Skiptons actions up 
until August 2016  in a separate complaint. So this complaint only concerns Skiptons actions 
and the way it treated Mr and Mrs G from August 2016  onwards.
In September  2018 Skipton issued its final response letter  to Mrs G. It said when the 
mortgage was offered,  it was on the basis that the loan would be repaid at the end of the 
agreed term  which was April 2015. Skipton said as it was a joint mortgage, it needed the 
authority of all parties to make any changes to it  including changing the term of the loan or 
the mortgage product. So they couldnt  make changes without Mr Gs consent. 
An order  for possession  was granted in 2016, but later that year an order  was made  that 
Skipton would not enforce  the warrant for possession  until May 2017  to allow Mr and Mrs G 
time to sell the property.  The house was not placed  on the market and an eviction  date was 
set in May 2018.
Skipton said it had given Mrs G ample  notice of the proceedings and ultimate  date she would 
need to leave the property. The date for final removal of Mrs Gs personal items was 
extended a number of times and she retrieved some  of them  in August  2018. 
Skipton summarised  that all the information  Mrs G had provided over the years  had shown 
the mortgage was not affordable for her on her income. And extending the mortgage on 
interest-only without  a reasonable repayment strategy  would only have deferred the 
problem.
Mrs G remained  unhappy that Skipton had not considered  her payment proposals and 
pursued legal action. She was also unhappy  that she was not able to collect all of her 
belongings before the property was cleared.
Our investigator looked into things, and explained that he didnt think  Skipton unfairly 
rejected Mrs Gs proposals to extend  the mortgage  in 2017. He didnt  think doing this would 
have been in her best interests.  He also said Skipton had given Mrs G sufficient time and 
Ref: DRN05870802notice before and after taking possession  of the property, and didnt  think  it had acted 
unfairly during  this time.
Mrs G disagreed, so the complaints been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has raised  a number of reasons why she believes Skipton  has treated her and Mr G 
unfairly, as well as why she disagrees  with our investigators view. Ive listened  carefully  to 
everything shes said and have taken it into account  when  reaching my decision. I wont 
comment on each individual point  made,  but I will address the heart of the complaint  which  
is overall about whether Skipton has treated Mr and Mrs G fairly when dealing with their 
mortgage from August  2016 onwards.
Skiptons actions before taking possession of the property
Our service has considered a complaint about  Skiptons  actions before August 2016  
separately, so I wont be commenting on that in this decision. 
Ive looked carefully  at whats happened  since August 2016, including  the conversations  that 
have taken place,  and correspondence exchanged between Mr G, Mrs G and Skipton. I note 
several court hearings have taken place  during  this time  and whilst I wont  comment  on the 
outcome of those hearings where  decisions have  already been  made  by the courts, I can 
comment on Skiptons actions leading up to the court hearings, and afterwards. 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage term ended in April 2015.  They had no repayment vehicle in place 
to repay  the balance,  and Mrs G wanted to remain in the property by extending the mortgage 
term. Mrs G had made proposals to Skipton in order  to avoid repossession,  but Skipton was 
not satisfied that these  proposals were affordable for Mr and Mrs G based on the information 
it had, and Mr G had also not agreed  to them.
In the absence of any other proposals  being  made,  in November 2016 Skipton gave 
Mr and Mrs G another six months  to sell their house  in order to clear the mortgage balance. 
This was then agreed by the courts  ordering that the warrant for possession be suspended 
until May 2017. Mrs G kept Skipton updated during this period, but she was struggling  to get 
Mr G to consent to the sale of the property. 
Mrs G also continued to ask Skipton about interest  rate products available with a view to 
agreeing an extension. Skipton explained  it couldnt agree any changes  to the mortgage, 
including a rate switch,  without Mr and Mrs G being able to demonstrate this was an 
affordable way forward for them, and both of them would need to give consent. As nothing  
seemed to have  changed in regards to Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances since  the last 
proposals were deemed unaffordable by Skipton, I dont think  this was unreasonable.
As the house  still hadnt been  put on the market by the end of May 2017, Skipton resumed 
legal action to take possession of the property. Mrs G had said to Skipton she could afford 
the mortgage on one of the fixed rates it was offering (1.79%), as this would have made the 
monthly mortgage payments £343.  Mrs G had previously been making payments of just 
under £300  (a significant proportion of this being made by the Department for Work and 
Ref: DRN05870803Pensions (DWP)), so she felt shed be able to find the additional  small amount each month if 
Skipton would agree to put this rate in place, and allow her to stay in the property. Mrs G had 
also contacted  a charity, who wrote to Skipton about  this on her behalf. The proposal also 
included an offer to pay a lump sum towards the arrears, and Mrs Gs income  and 
expenditure information which showed she could afford the lower monthly payment if this 
was agreed. 
Skipton did consider this, but responded to explain why it wasnt  prepared to accept this 
proposal. Having  considered  the wider circumstances, I think this was a fair decision  for 
Skipton to make. I understand why Mrs G was frustrated that Skipton wouldnt allow her to 
switch to a lower interest rate to reduce the payment to an amount that was affordable for 
her. I see why this in isolation may feel unfair. 
But the mortgage was interest  only, and the term had ended.  If the term extension had been  
agreed, along with the new interest rate  this may have meant Mrs G could have remained  
in her property for a few more years, making the monthly payments. But it wouldnt have 
solved the problem that the overall  outstanding  balance would still need to be paid at the 
end of that period, and there were over £20,000 worth of arrears on the account.  Mrs Gs 
offer of a lump sum payment was less than half of that amount. And her income and 
expenditure information didnt support that shed be able to make sufficient contributions  to 
this arrears balance  in addition to her contractual monthly payment. Also  the mortgage  
was the responsibility  of both Mr and Mrs G. So it wouldnt  be fair for Skipton to agree to this 
extension  which would have resulted in more interest being owed under the mortgage 
overall  without Mr Gs consent. 
Overall, Im not persuaded it was in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests to extend the mortgage 
term on interest only, whilst there was no method in place for them to pay this back. The 
income and expenditure information for Mrs G provided by the charity showed  that the 
mortgage was not affordable for Mrs G on her own on a capital and repayment basis,  if the 
mortgage was to be extended  until her retirement age. 
Unfortunately, it seems the case that this mortgage  was simply unaffordable and 
unsustainable for Mrs G to maintain on her own, and Mr G was not making  any payments. 
So Im satisfied that given the circumstances, the best solution was for the house to be sold.
Skipton allowed Mr and Mrs G time for them to arrange this themselves  but unfortunately 
this didnt go ahead. Lenders  should only consider repossession as a last resort  to recover 
an outstanding  mortgage debt. Im satisfied Skipton had explored  the options  available to 
Mr and Mrs G, and pursued legal action as a last resort. I appreciate Mrs G was trying to 
obtain Mr Gs consent to sell the house,  but unfortunately, she wasnt able to get this. Whilst 
this was no fault of Mrs Gs, it wouldnt have been responsible for Skipton to have let the 
situation go on indefinitely, given the lack of contact from Mr G throughout. It kept both 
Mr and Mrs G updated  with the actions it was taking,  and so I dont think Skipton acted 
unfairly when pursuing the legal action it took. 
Skiptons actions after it took possession of the property
An eviction date was set for 2 May 2018, which Mr and Mrs G were made aware  of by letter 
on 16 April 2018. Mrs G was not communicating directly with Skipton, but with the agent 
handling the property  who informed  Skipton  that she was looking into quotes  for removal  
companies towards the end of May. Skipton gave a deadline of 8 June 2018 for the removal 
Ref: DRN05870804to be confirmed and arranged. When this wasnt met, Skipton gave a further three  days  for 
removal to be organised. 
Skipton continued  to give Mrs G more  time to remove her belongings from the property, and 
Mrs G eventually gave the agents a removal date in July when she planned to take what  she 
wanted. Skipton  agreed to wait until July for the clearance of the property. Mrs G then asked 
for more time  until 3 August 2018,  which Skipton agreed to. Mrs G cancelled  this removal, 
and Skipton wrote to her with a final deadline of 13 August 2018 to remove her belongings.  
This letter said if Mrs G hadnt removed her belongings  by this date the clearance would be 
going ahead regardless  given it had been over three  months  since Skipton had taken 
possession of the property.
Clearance of the property  began on 13 August as agreed,  but following further contact from 
Mrs G, Skipton allowed  her to re-enter the property later that week  to take anything  that was 
left that she wanted  to keep. The clearance was put on hold for a few more  days  but 
unfortunately by that point a lot of Mrs Gs belongings  had already  been taken. Mrs G 
removed what she wanted to take,  and left items that she didnt want  for the clearance  
company to dispose of.
I do understand how distressing this whole process must have been for Mrs G, shed been 
evicted from her home and some  of her belongings had been destroyed.  Whilst I empathise  
with her situation, I am persuaded Skipton gave Mrs G sufficient time and notice to arrange 
for her belongings to be removed before  the house  was cleared. They  allowed several 
extensions following requests from Mrs G and overall, I think waited longer than we would 
expect them to. So considering everything, Im not satisfied Skipton treated Mr and Mrs G 
unfairly after they took possession of the property.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0587080