K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend him money he 
couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Mr M took out four loans  with Uncle  Buck - heres  a table  showing details: 
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 20/04/2017 09/06/2017 3 £150.00 £65.65
2 23/06/2017 21/07/2017 3 £100.00 £43.26
3 08/09/2017 30/11/2017 3 £250.00 £119.76
4 30/11/2017 31/05/2018 3 £400.00 £202.18
Mr M said these  were  loans that he couldnt  afford  and he found he was getting deeper and 
deeper into debt by taking out more payday  loans.
Our adjudicator felt that Uncle Buck shouldnt have provided  any of these loans to Mr M, 
given his other outstanding high cost loans at the time.
Uncle Buck  mainly said that just because an applicant had other short term loans  
outstanding didnt mean that lending was unsustainable. Uncle  Buck said the lending it 
provided Mr M wasnt excessive given the figures  hed declared  and the information its other 
checks showed.  
Uncle Buck  has asked for a review so this complaint comes  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN07754542But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Uncle Buck  asked Mr M to provide details of his income and to tell Uncle  Buck what he 
normally spent each  month. Uncle Buck carried out credit checks  which it says confirmed the 
monthly income figure Mr M provided was accurate. 
Uncle Buck  has sent us a copy of its credit checks. Uncle Buck  could have seen that Mr M 
had at least three other short  term high cost loans outstanding when he asked to borrow his 
first loan from Uncle Buck. 
Looking at what Uncle Buck knew about Mr Ms income and expenditure, Mr M appeared to 
have more than £1,000  of disposable income  each month. 
But that information is clearly at odds with him borrowing from multiple  short term lenders. 
Ive carefully considered  what Uncle Buck  has said about this. It told us:
We did see that Mr M had outstanding short term loans. However, his total loans balance  
was £2938 (which  included short term loans), this represented 1.53 times his net monthly 
income. Mr M had also declared credit  spend  of £300 in his expenses and so if we made  a 
reasonable calculation of his credit commitments . the loan was affordable .
Ref: DRN07754543But I think that the extent of Mr Ms other  short term borrowing  should  reasonably  have led 
Uncle Buck  to the conclusion that the information  Mr M had provided about his finances was 
highly inaccurate  and that it was likely  that Mr M was facing serious  problems managing his 
money.
Ive taken into account that Uncle  Buck also mentioned the gap in lending between  loans 2 
and 3 was 47 days. But this doesnt affect my overall view.  
I dont think it was reasonable  for Uncle Buck to conclude that it was likely Mr M would be 
able to repay loan 1, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable way. 
And Uncle Buck shouldve  declined all Mr Ms loan applications and not lent him anything.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck should  do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 1-4, not including  anything Uncle Buck has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr M which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr M the amounts calculated  in "A" and "B".
D.Remove any adverse  information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr Ms credit  file for 
loans 1-4.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to take the steps set out above to 
put things right for Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0775454