K821x#15complaint
Mrs L had complained that Southern  Rock  Insurance  Company (Southern) unfairly charged 
her an additional  premium for her motor insurance and then cancelled the policy.
background
I've previously issued  two provisional decisions. For ease I've appended the most recent of 
those, dated 19 July 2019,  as an annex  to this decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the relevant history, my provisional  findings and award to 
put things right. But in summary  Mrs L had a policy on which  her son, Mr L, was a named 
driver. After he was involved in an accident Southern  asked Mrs L to pay an additional 
premium. When  she didn't pay that Southern  cancelled her policy. I didn't think  that was fair 
and explained  what I thought Southern should  do to put things right. I invited both Southern  
and Mrs L to comment on my recent  provisional decision.
Southern didn't make any new substantive comments but instead referred back to a 
response it had sent to our adjudicators view last year. It had sent that response before the 
complaint was ever passed to me. So Id already considered the points it had made  before I 
issued my provisional decision. In summary Southern  had said that as Mrs L hadn't claimed 
against her own policy  it couldn't settle a claim proportionately. It added  that it was 
reasonable for it to cancel the policy as Mrs L hadn't paid the additional premium. And, as 
with many other businesses, there will be a consequence for consumers like Mrs L who 
haven't paid what  they owe. Southern  added that it believed it had taken the correct action in 
charging the additional premium.
Mrs L didn't make any further  comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Sotherns response to my amended provisional  decision  is somewhat curious.  Its referred 
me to points that Id considered before issuing both of my provisional decisions and which Id 
already addressed. So I don't intend  to revisit the arguments surrounding those points again 
in-depth. But I will take this opportunity to remind Southern that my provisional decisions 
explained that Southern  was mistaken to say that it couldnt apply a proportionate settlement 
of a claim.  As there was a claim made against  Mrs Ls policy it could have settled that claim 
proportionally.
Also, my provisional decisions explained  why Southern  hadn't  applied the appropriate law 
correctly. And that meant that it wasn't fair or correct  for it to charge an additional premium.  
I went on to explain that if it had approached that matter fairly, then I think Mrs L would have 
paid the additional premium. So there would have been no reason for Southern  to have 
cancelled her policy. As a result, I didn't think it had cancelled her policy  fairly regardless that 
Mrs L hadn't paid the additional premium.  For those reasons I said that Southern needed to 
put things right as set out in the findings to my recent provisional decision. And as neither 
Southern nor Mrs L has provided  reasons  that lead me to conclude that I should change  
those findings,  I don't intend to do so. 
Ref: DRN05333192my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decisions, I uphold this complaint. I 
require Southern Rock Insurance Company to:
 Calculate a refund of the unused portion of Mrs Ls premium  from the date of 
cancellation to the date the policy was due to lapse.  It should add to that a sum 
equivalent to a pro rata refund for the broker fee of £203.78 Mrs L paid covering the 
time she didnt benefit from her policy. That is unless the broker  has already provided 
such a refund. Southern should add simple interest to that total sum at a rate of 8% a 
year from the date it cancelled the policy to the date it pays  the refund. It should add 
£150 compensation to that figure. And from the total it should deduct  the £541.75 
additional premium that Mrs L owed. It should pay the remaining balance  to Mrs L.
 Provide Mrs L with a letter that she can give to her new insurer(s) to show that the 
cancellation was in error,  so she can ask for any refund due from her insurer(s)  as a 
result. If her insurer(s) refuse to make such a refund  on receipt of appropriate 
evidence - Southern should refund Mrs L for any additional amount charged by her 
insurer(s) because of the cancellation.  Southern should add simple  interest  to any 
refund at a rate of 8% a year simple from the date she paid the increased premium(s) 
to the date Southern refunds her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN05333193annex  my provisional decision of 19 July 2019
complaint
Mrs L had complained that Southern Rock Insurance Company (Southern) unfairly  charged her an 
additional premium for her motor insurance policy and then cancelled the policy.
background
Mrs L had a policy on which her son, Mr L, was a named driver. After he was involved in an accident  
Southern asked  Mrs L to pay an additional  premium.  When  she didnt pay that Southern cancelled her 
policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 June  2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional findings below. I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
The dispute  arose  because,  after Mr Ls accident, Southern found out that Mr L had a full driving 
licence rather than the provisional licence Mrs L had said he had when she applied for the policy. It 
said that if shed given it Mr Ls correct licence details it would have charged her an additional 
premium of around £542; so it said she should pay that sum.
Mrs L said she was sure that shed  given the right details  about Mr Ls licence, and the date he 
passed his test, when she applied for the policy. So she didnt think it was fair for Southern to charge 
her an additional premium. As Mrs L didnt pay the additional premium Southern  cancelled her policy.
Mrs L initially  applied for the policy through a comparison website. Southern has shown  us information 
from the provider of that website;  that shows Mrs L had input that her son had a provisional rather 
than full licence.  Also the policy information  Southern  sent to Mrs L after shed  bought it showed that 
her son had a provisional  driving licence.  So, given the evidence Southern has provided, Im 
persuaded that Mrs L made a mistake  about  Mr Ls licence type when looking for quotes. And 
Southern has shown us evidence that if Mrs L had given it Mr Ls correct licence  details it would have 
charged her around £542  more for her policy.
Mrs Ls mistake  is known in the insurance industry as a misrepresentation.  Theres specific law - the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  - which sets out what  
insurers may do when a consumer has made a misrepresentation. Mrs L told us that shes certain  that 
she entered the correct licence details. But as Ive said above Im satisfied that she didnt. And Ive 
seen no persuasive evidence that she input the incorrect licence type deliberately or recklessly, so I 
think her mistake was careless.
Where a consumers made a careless  misrepresentation  CIDRA says that insurers cant  simply  
impose an additional  premium. Instead, where  theres been a claim on the policy, CIDRA allows an 
insurer to settle any claim on a proportionate basis. By that I mean  it could work out what percentage 
of the correct premium  Mrs L had actually  paid and limit its settlement of any claim to that percentage. 
But Southern didnt do that an instead simply  told Mrs L she must pay the additional premium.
In response to our adjudicators view Southern said that as Mrs L didnt make  a claim for the damage 
to her own car it couldnt settle a claim  proportionately. But I think its wrong.  CIDRA  says the 
remedies it offers apply to any claim. And that would  have included the claim made  by the other 
driver against Mrs Ls policy. So CIDRA  did give Southern the remedy of making a proportionate 
settlement of the other drivers claim.
Ref: DRN05333194If it didnt wish to do that it would have been fair for it to have explained to Mrs L that it would settle 
the other drivers  claim on a proportionate  basis, unless she chose  to pay the additional premium 
owing because of the misrepresentation. And in those circumstances I think Mrs L would have chosen  
to pay the additional premium, which  would  have allowed  her the full benefit of the policy  for its 
remaining term.
As Southern  didnt do that Mrs L refused to pay the additional premium. I think that situation could 
have been avoided if Southern  had correctly followed the remedies allowed to it by CIDRA. As Mrs L 
didnt pay the additional  premium Southern cancelled the policy. I accept that its generally reasonable 
for an insurer to cancel  a policy where  a consumer doesnt  pay their premium.  But in this case CIDRA 
doesnt allow  Southern  to simply impose  the additional premium. So it shouldnt have imposed the 
charge. It follows that I dont  think it was fair for it to cancel the policy as it did. And, because Southern 
cancelled the policy Mrs L didnt  have the benefit  of it for its remaining term. So she had to buy 
another policy  for a period  she would otherwise have been covered by the policy shed  already paid 
for from Southern. And the insurer  of her replacement policy confirmed that, because the previous 
policy had been cancelled, it charged her £237 more  than it otherwise would have  done.
So I dont think Southern dealt with Mrs L fairly  and if it had I think  its likely  that Mrs L would  have 
paid the additional premium and her policy would have remained in place  and she wouldnt  have had 
to replace it with another policy.  So in order to put things right I think  the following  should happen:
 Mrs L should pay Southern the additional premium of £541.75.
 Southern should reimburse Mrs L for the unused portion of her premium after it cancelled the 
policy. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it cancelled the 
policy until the date it pays the refund.
 On receipt  of evidence that Mrs Ls new insurer hasnt agreed to do so, Southern should 
refund Mrs L the £237 extra premium she paid because of the previous cancellation. Southern should 
add interest  to that at a rate of 8% a year simple  from the date Mrs L paid for the new policy to the 
date it refunds her.
 Also Im aware that Mrs L has suffered distress and inconvenience because Southern didnt 
go about things the right way. So I think it should pay her £150 compensation to address  that.
developments
Mrs L said that she believed that Southern would owe her more by way of a refund than the £541.75 
she owed for the additional premium. So she didnt want to pay that amount first as she wasnt 
convinced that Southern would agree  to pay her the refund for the unused premium.  She added  that 
her current insurer had said that it would  refund the £237 in extra premium shed paid because  of the 
previous cancellation if she could provide  a letter  to show the cancellation was in error. But she added  
that she felt that she might have also been affected by the cancellation when her policy renewed for a 
second time.
Southern said that Mrs Ls policy said that no premium refund would  be due where a policy  was 
cancelled and it had paid out on a claim.  And as it had paid out on a claim it didnt think  it should pay 
a premium refund. It also said that rather than paying Mrs L £150 compensation  it should just deduct 
this sum from the £541.75 she owed it for the additional premium, so reducing  the amount she 
needed to pay to £391.75.
my amended  provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so it remains  likely Ill uphold it.  
Ref: DRN05333195It appears that both Mrs L and Southern have  accepted most of my provisional findings  so Ill only 
deal here with the points that remain in dispute.
Southern said that Mrs Ls policy says that, where its paid out on a claim and the policy is cancelled 
then no refund of premium  would be due. So it doesnt think it should have to pay Mrs L a refund  for 
the unused portion of her premium. I agree  thats what the policy says. 
But as Ive said above  I think that if Southern had applied  CIDRA appropriately and explained the 
position to Mrs L carefully then shed  have  paid the additional premium. And if that had happened 
then Southern  wouldnt  have  cancelled  the policy. That in turn would have allowed Mrs L the full 
benefit of the policy for its remaining term. In other words if Southern had dealt with her fairly from the 
outset it wouldnt have cancelled the policy  and Miss L wouldnt have had any unused  portion  of her 
premium. 
So in order to put things  right I think its fair that it refunds her the unused  portion  of her premium.  On 
reviewing this point, Ive noted that the broker who sold Mrs L her policy also charged her a significant 
arrangement fee of 203.78 for the year. And Mrs L might not have received the full benefit of that fee 
because Southern unfairly cancelled her policy. So, unless the broker provided a refund for part of 
that fee then I think Southern  should also provide a pro rata refund of the brokers  charge and add 
that sum to the refund  of premium due. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of cancellation  to the date it makes payment. 
Mrs L said she doesnt  think she should  have  to pay the £541.75 additional premium.  Thats  because 
she doesnt  believe that Southern would  pay her any refund due. But if Mrs L accepts my findings  
then my decision  becomes legally binding  upon Southern. So I find it very unlikely  that it would refuse 
to pay a refund that its legally required  to pay. 
Mrs L has also suggested  that the refund of unused premium plus interest would  most likely be more 
than the £541.75 additional premium she owes to Southern. Ive noted that, when including  the 
brokers fee, Mrs L paid a total of around £904 for her policy and it was cancelled roughly half way 
through. So she would be entitled to around half her premium back, which would  be refund of around 
£452. So, after adding interest its likely that shed still owe Southern some money.  
In contrast, Southern has suggested that it offsets the £150 compensation Ive awarded against  any 
funds that Mrs L might  owe. In the specific circumstances of this case  I think  thats reasonable, albeit 
that its likely  that it will be Southern who still owes  Mrs L some money once all the calculations are 
done. 
So, in order to put things  right I think that Southern should calculate a refund of unused  premium, and 
a pro rata refund  for the broker  fee Mrs L paid, equivalent to the time she didnt benefit from her policy  
for. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it cancelled the 
policy to the date it pays  the refund. It should add £150  compensation  to that figure. From that sum it 
should deduct  the £541.75  additional premium that Mrs L owed. It should pay the balance to Mrs L.
Mrs Ls said that her current insurer has told her that it would refund her additional amounts charged 
because of the cancellation  on her record. So as long as her insurers honours that Southern shouldnt  
owe her additional sums for that period.  But shes also concerned that her recent premium might have 
been affected  by the cancellation. To address that Southern should  provider  Mrs L with a letter that 
she can give to her new insurer(s)  to show that the cancellation was in error, and she can ask for any 
refund due from her insurer(s) as a result. If her insurer(s) refuse to make  such a refund  on receipt  
of appropriate evidence - Southern should  refund Mrs L for any additional amount charged by her 
insurer(s) because of the cancellation. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year 
simple  from the date she paid the increased  premium(s)  to the date Southern refunds her.
Ref: DRN05333196my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above its likely  Ill uphold this complaint. I intend to require Southern Rock 
Insurance Company  to:
Calculate a refund  of the unused  portion  of Mrs Ls premium from the date of cancellation to 
the date the policy was due to lapse. It should add to that a sum equivalent to a pro rata 
refund for the broker  fee of £203.78 Mrs L paid covering  the time she didnt benefit  from her 
policy for. That is unless the broker  has already provided such a refund. It should add simple 
interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date it cancelled the policy to the date it 
pays the refund. It should  add £150 compensation to that figure. And from the total it should 
deduct the £541.75  additional premium that Mrs L owed. It should pay the remaining balance 
to Mrs L.
Provide Mrs L with a letter that she can give to her new insurer(s)  to show that the 
cancellation was in error, and she can ask for any refund due from her insurer(s) as a result. If 
her insurer(s)  refuse to make such a refund  on receipt of appropriate evidence  - Southern 
should refund Mrs L for any additional amount charged by her insurer(s)  because  of the 
cancellation. Southern should add simple interest to any refund at a rate of 8% a year simple 
from the date she paid the increased  premium(s) to the date Southern  refunds her.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0533319