K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his van 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background
In September  2018, Mr M took out van insurance  with Admiral through a comparison 
website. The website  asked Mr M how many years no claims bonus  (NCB)  he had in his own 
name. Mr M said he had four years. Admiral set the premium on that basis.
After Admiral asked Mr M for proof  of his NCB,  he provided them  a letter from the company 
he worked for as a self-employed  owner  driver.  It confirmed  he hadnt been  involved in any 
incidents during  his four years with them while insured on their group policy. But they didnt 
confirm that he had four years NCB. Admiral said as Mr M was previously  insured  on a 
company group policy and not in his own name,  they couldnt apply four years NCB to his 
policy. Admiral  reduced Mr Ms NCB on his policy to zero. But they applied  an introductory  
discount to his premium  so that it cost the same as it would have if he had four years NCB. 
Admiral also said Mr M didnt have to accept or continue the policy if he wasnt happy with 
their NCB rules. And they said if he remained claim free after the first year and renewed with 
them, they would again give him an introductory discount to take account  of his claim free 
driving history. But if he left after the first year, and provided he had a claim free year,  they 
would provide him with proof  of only one years NCB.
Mr M didnt  think  that was fair and he complained. He said he was self-employed and leased  
two vans from the company he did work  for over a period of four years.  He said it was a 
condition of his contract  with the company that he would buy their insurance. So he said he 
was properly insured in his own right and that he gained  four years NCB.  But Admiral didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didn't think that was fair so he brought  his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. She felt that Admiral  hadnt done anything wrong. As 
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr M, but Im not going to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr M has made a number  of detailed  points  and Ive considered  all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Admiral have  dealt  with Mr M in a fair and reasonable way.
When Mr M applied for van insurance  with Admiral he was asked how many  NCB years he 
had. The website gave  the following information  to help him answer  the questions:
Please  enter the number  of years No Claims Bonus to be used for this vehicle. If this 
is your first personal  insurance please select 0.
To be valid the No Claims Bonus must be:
Ref: DRN06347012 Earned  in the name of the policyholder for this car
 Earned  on a private vehicle insurance  policy
 Earned  in the UK
 Earned  in the last 2 years
Applying Admirals criteria, I think Mr M was wrong to declare he had four years  NCB. The 
insurance policy through the company was not a private policy in Mr Ms name.  It was a 
group policy in the companys name. I know Mr M was paying for it, but that doesnt mean it 
was his policy. I therefore think Admiral were  reasonable in reducing Mr Ms NCB from four 
years to zero. I note they gave him a discount  which kept his premium  at the same price, 
which I think was reasonable. But if Mr M wasnt happy with Admirals NCB rules, he didnt 
have to continue  with them and he could have gone elsewhere. 
Insurers are allowed to set their own NCB rules. And different insurers  have different rules.  I 
think its important that an insurer asks a clear  question  and provides clear information from 
the outset. In Mr Ms case, I think the question about the number of NCB years  he had was 
clear. I also think  the information  provided  to help him answer that question  accurately was 
clear. I therefore feel Admiral acted reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0634701