K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the operation  of their mortgage with Mortgage Agency
Services Number Five Limited (MAS5).
background
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest-only mortgage in October 2006. They borrowed 
around £243,000 over a term of 25 years.  The mortgage was on a fixed  rate of 5.79% 
until September 2008, after which it would move  to the standard  variable rate (SVR) 
which was 6.74% at the time they took the mortgage  out. In January 2007 MAS5 bought 
this mortgage  and have remained the lender  ever since.
In October 2008 after the fixed rate period ended,  Mr and Mrs S moved onto a 
discounted rate for one year. This rate was MAS5s  SVR with a discount of 0.75%, so 
Mr and Mrs S were  paying 6.24% for one year. Since then theyve been  paying the 
SVR, which  has gone up and down over the years.
In 2014, Mr and Mrs S complained to MAS5 through a representative about the interest  
rate charged on their mortgage, and the fact it had been much higher than the Bank  of 
England (BoE) base  rate. In May 2014,  MAS5 responded to this complaint referring  Mr 
and Mrs S to our service if they remained  unhappy.
In August 2018, Mr and Mrs S complained again.  Their complaint can be summarised by 
the following  complaint points:
    they believe they were pushed into the transfer of the mortgage to MAS5 in 2007.
    they were  told the terms and conditions would  be exactly the same, and the 
previous lenders rates were linked to the Bank  of England rates. But MAS5 increase 
the rates at their own discretion. The SVR went up six times  in a year causing their 
mortgage costs  to double.
    MAS5 have  not offered any help in relation  to Mr S being in an IVA, and Mr and 
Mrs S are worried  about the rate increasing  even further in the future.
MAS5 didnt  consent to us considering  all of these complaint points. They said that the
complaint about  the transfer of the mortgage had been made too late. They also said the 
complaint about  the interest rate had been  responded to in May 2014, and so Mr and Mrs 
S had brought this to us too late  as it was more  than six months ago.
Our investigator explained that he agreed these two complaint points had been made too 
late. But we could still consider the interest  rates charged from May 2014  onwards,  and the
way MAS5  have handled things since Mr S has been in an IVA. He considered these 
complaint points and explained that in, in his view, MAS5  had acted fairly.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 2019.  I explained that I could only consider the 
following complaint  points, as the rest of the complaint  had been  made  too late under the 
rules I must apply.
interest rate charged since May 2014.
     the  lack of support  MAS5 have  given Mr and Mrs S since  2017.
Ref: DRN07856202Neither party objected  to this, so this case has been  passed back  to me to issue  a decision 
on the complaint  points  that are in our jurisdiction.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  this case  on the basis of 
what I set out in my previous decision were the boundaries of my jurisdiction. As neither 
party objected to my findings, I see no reason to change my mind about  that. So I will only 
consider the complaint points identified  above.
interest rate charged on the mortgage
Mr and Mrs S mortgage account has been  on fixed and discounted  rates in the past, but 
since late 2009, its been on MAS5s standard variable rate (SVR). Since May 2014, the 
standard variable  rate charged on Mr and Mrs S mortgage has changed  three times. All of 
which have broadly followed a change in the Bank of England base rate.
September 2016: decreased to 5.5%
December 2017:  increased to 5.75%
September 2018: increased to 6%
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S mortgage  that they agreed to when 
they took it out. These explain that the lender may vary the standard  variable rate by giving 
prior notice, and they give a list of reasons  for why the rate may be varied.  A change  in the 
Bank of England  base rate is listed as one of the reasons the SVR may change, but this 
doesnt mean that the SVR will be directly linked to the base rate.
Mr and Mrs S mortgage was then transferred to MAS5 in 2007, and at this point  the 
previous lender wrote to Mr and Mrs S to explain there wouldnt be any changes  to the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage.  So the original terms they agreed to when they took the 
mortgage out still applied.
There is no indication on any of the mortgage  paperwork, or in the terms and conditions, that 
the SVR would track the base rate. The terms of the mortgage explain that the interest  rate 
applicable is variable, and the bank set this rate. So whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs S feel the 
interest rate theyve  paid has been too high, Im satisfied MAS5 have charged interest  in line 
with the terms of Mr and Mrs S mortgage, and were entitled  to do so. 
When the interest rate charged  on Mr and Mrs S mortgage account changed, MAS5  wrote  
to them to tell them this  and told them what their new monthly payment was going to be. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs S mortgage was on the SVR, there was no Early  Repayment Charge 
(ERC) payable if they wanted to redeem the mortgage and move  to another  lender. So Im 
satisfied there were no contractual barriers  preventing Mr and Mrs S from redeeming their  
mortgage early if they wanted to look for another interest rate elsewhere.  
MAS5 didnt  offer any new lending or products themselves, but this didnt mean  that Mr and 
Mrs S couldnt have redeemed their mortgage and moved to a different lender. I can see 
from the contact notes on the account that this was discussed in August 2016, when Mrs S 
called to discuss new interest rate products. MAS5 informed her that they could seek advice 
from an Independent  Financial Advisor or mortgage broker  about this, which is what  Id 
expect MAS5 to do.
I appreciate it may have been  difficult for Mr and Mrs S to have secured a new mortgage 
elsewhere. But this would  have been because of Mr and Mrs S circumstances, and the fact 
Ref: DRN07856203that their mortgage was interest only. Not because  of anything in the mortgage contract, or 
anything that MAS5 had done wrong.
So whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel theyve  been overcharged, Im not satisfied MAS5  
have acted unfairly when charging  the interest rate they have.
fair treatment of Mr and Mrs S circumstances
Mr and Mrs S have  been through a difficult time over the years, and I understand the 
increase in interest charged on the mortgage has made things harder for them. More 
recently, Mr S entered into an IVA to help manage his financial commitments,  but theyve  
managed to maintain their mortgage  payments each month,  and kept the mortgage out of 
arrears.
Whilst MAS5 were aware  of the IVA, I cant see that Mr and Mrs S have spoken to MAS5  
about their financial  situation, or asked for any help with the mortgage. MAS5  have written  to 
Mr and Mrs S several times over the years, prompting them to call and discuss  things  if they 
were experiencing difficulty meeting their mortgage  commitments. But I cant see Mr and 
Mrs S have done this. Whilst  MAS5 were  aware of the IVA, Mr and Mrs S were still making 
their monthly mortgage payments, so I wouldnt  expect them  to automatically assume  they 
needed help with this. 
Had Mr and Mrs S asked  for help, I would  have expected MAS5 to engage with them to 
agree a workable  solution. And I would  encourage Mr and Mrs S to have this conversation 
with them  now if theyre still struggling  with their finances. But based on whats happened so 
far, I cant say that MAS5 have treated  Mr and Mrs S unfairly.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0785620