K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  sent her bank statements to the 
wrong address.
background
Ms P changed from a joint account to a sole account  in October  2018  but Barclays amended 
her address  incorrectly and between  October 2018 and February 2019 her post was sent to 
her ex sister-in-laws  address by mistake.
This, Ms P says, has caused  her significant embarrassment as the information  has been 
shared with people in her small community. Its led to her considering moving away.
Barclays accepted  responsibility for the error but couldnt  explain why it happened. They 
offered Ms P £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused her. 
But Ms P wasnt happy with their offer and she therefore referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Barclays had done enough. He noted that Ms P had explained 
the issue had affected her health and her childs schooling and he suggested  Barclays 
should increase  their offer to £500.
Barclays accepted  the adjudicators view but Ms P didnt as she explained shed been 
caused significant inconvenience by Barclays  actions. She therefore  asked  for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the impact this error had on Ms P. But here I think Barclays  
has now done all it needs to in the circumstances and Im not suggesting  they take any 
further action. I know  that will come as a disappointment to Ms P so please let me explain 
why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute here that Barclays  are in error. Theyve shared confidential information 
with others  and the situation must have been  distressing  for Ms P.
But it wouldnt be fair of me to take into account  the consequences of their actions as 
Barclays could never have known about the consequences. I think  its fairer for me to review 
what the mistake was and what a fair resolution would be given  the mistake  that was made.  
Having considered that, I think  a payment of £500 to compensate Ms P for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN00354712my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and ask Barclays  Bank UK PLC to 
pay Ms P £500, less anything thats  already been  paid in relation to this issue,  to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  their actions have  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0035471