K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr S used to hold with Mortgage  Express.  He complains 
about charges  applied  to the account when he fell into arrears  caused by health-related  
financial difficulties.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 1 August  2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 15 August 2019  to reply; both parties have done so already.
Mr S says that he called  the business  to set up a payment arrangement,  and it said there 
was no need as he was about  to sell the house in any event. Mortgage Express  agrees that 
Mr S called to say the house was being sold, but that it made him aware of the implications 
of going into arrears. Unfortunately, the completion of the sale kept being  delayed and Mr S 
eventually stopped paying altogether after August 2014.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. If I take Mr S at face value when he says he wanted  
to make a payment  arrangement,  Im not convinced  Mortgage Express would (or indeed  
should) have agreed to an arrangement under  which Mr S paid £100 a month  instead  of over 
£520. That being so, the arrears charge for May 2014 was still, in my view, fairly applied.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against Mortgage Express. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01673482CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage Mr S used to hold with Mortgage Express. He complains about 
charges applied  to the account when he fell into arrears  caused by health-related  financial difficulties.
background
As a starting point, our rules only allow  us to look at charges applied during the six-year period 
leading up to the date the complaint started. There are provisions for us to look further back in 
exceptional circumstances, but those dont apply here. In Mr S case,  the complaint started in March 
2019, so that meant we could look at charges applied between March 2013 and the closure of the 
mortgage in 2015.
Mortgage Express applied five charges  during that period; £7.50 on 1 May 2014 for a missed direct 
debit, and four arrears management fees of £40 each on 31 May,  31 October,  29 November and 31 
December 2014 respectively. Our investigator agreed all fees were permitted under  the terms of the 
mortgage. But he thought  the £40 fee from 31 May 2014 should  be refunded in the interests of 
fairness, saying that Mr S had made an effort  to pay what he owed.
Mortgage Express didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The starting  position  is that lenders generally  are permitted under  the mortgage  terms to apply fees 
and charges to cover the additional cost of administering  a mortgage account that is in arrears. Such 
charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges.  
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been  applied in 
accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give separate consideration  to 
whether theyve been applied  fairly. One situation where we generally find that arrears fees or 
charges havent been applied fairly is if the customer  has paid either  the contractual payment or a 
different amount agreed as part of a payment  arrangement. 
Other than the exception from May 2014, the investigator  found that Mortgage Express  had applied 
the fees fairly, and I agree. As for the May 2014 fee, Mr S paid £100  that month. The investigator 
considered this enough  to show Mr S was making  an effort to pay such  that it would  be unfair to apply 
a charge. 
On that finding, Im afraid I dont agree.  Im aware Mr S was coping with poor health  at the time, but I 
have also to consider that the contractual  payment due that month was over £520, and there wasnt 
an agreement in place  for Mr S to pay a lesser amount. 
The amount Mr S paid in May 2014 was less than 20% of the contractual  amount. In all the 
circumstances, I dont  find thats enough to say that applying an arrears  fee that month was unfair.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 15 August 2019 
my provisional  decision  is that I dont in tend to uphold this complaint  or make  any order or award 
against Mortgage Express.
Ref: DRN01673483Ill review my provisional decision after 15 August 2019, or sooner  than that if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0167348