K821x#15complaint
Mrs F has complained about Advantage Insurance  Company Limited (trading as Hastings 
Direct). She isnt happy about the valuation it placed on her car when she claimed on her 
motor insurance policy  and about  the way her claim was handled. 
background
Mrs F was involved in an accident and made a claim on her car insurance policy. Advantage 
decided her car was a write off and valued  her car at £1500. 
Mrs F complained to Advantage as she wasnt  happy about the valuation and the way it 
handled her claim. She said that she was told the valuation was higher and felt that it didnt 
update her about the claim. 
Advantage said that there wasnt any evidence that a higher  settlement figure  had been 
discussed. But it accepted that its service hadnt been good enough and that there  had been  
delays. It apologised  and offered Mrs F £100  compensation.  But as Mrs F still wasnt happy  
she complained  to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for her. She didnt think  that there was sufficient evidence 
to show that a higher settlement had been  agreed  and she thought that Advantages offer of 
£100 compensation was fair. But she thought that Advantage hadnt offered a fair market 
value for the car based on its own engineers report and the trade guides.
Advantage didnt  agree.  It thought that this should be a new complaint point. So the matter 
has been passed to me for review.  
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
I agree  with our adjudicator that there  isnt sufficient evidence to say that Mrs F was told she 
would get £1500 as a market value for her car. And that £100 compensation is fair in 
acknowledgment of the poor service and delay that Mrs F faced in advancing her claim.
But it is clear from the trade  guides  and Advantage engineers notes that it has undervalued 
her car. And it is clear that Mrs F wasnt happy  with the valuation so I wouldve expected 
Advantage to have  looked into this as part of its investigation into her complaint. I wouldnt 
expect Mrs F to have to raise a separate complaint about this. Good customer  service  and 
complaint handling would  suggest that this shouldve  been looked at in the first instance  by 
Advantage. As such I agree that this aspect  of the complaint, which  is intrinsically linked to 
Mrs Fs original complaint, should  be looked  at here. 
Advantage knows how we look at valuation  complaints and so I wouldve expected it to 
resolve this without the need for delaying Mrs Fs complaint further. 
When looking at valuations placed  on cars by insurers we consider the approach they have 
adopted and decide whether or not the valuation is fair in all the circumstances.  We pay 
particular attention to the various  trade guides  used  for valuing vehicles, as well as other 
Ref: DRN01672882evidence provided  by both sides. This might include advertisements for the sale of similar 
cars; although I place  less weight on advertisements than on the trade guides as cars dont 
not normally sell for the price they are advertised. Generally we will only tell an insurer to 
increase its valuation if we consider it is unfair.
The trade valuations,  and Advantage engineers report, suggest that the value  of Mrs Fs car 
was around £1465, not £1300. So, as it is only fair that Mrs F should  be paid the market 
value of her car, in line with the policy terms and conditions,  I think that Advantage should 
increase its valuation. It should  also pay interest  for the time Mrs F has been  without the 
additional money in line with our usual approach.
Finally, I think  that Mrs F should  be paid an additional £100 compensation. This is because  
Advantage shouldve ensured  that she was paid the market value of her car in the first 
instance and its failure  has caused  her additional inconvenience.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mrs F the market value of her car (£1465)  less any 
excess owed. It should add 8% simple  interest to the outstanding amount from the date of 
claim until the date of settlement and pay her an additional £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0167288