K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. The policy was taken out in 2003 when 
Mr W applied  for the card in one of the banks  branches.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
His representative said, on his behalf  and in summary, that Mr W was already covered 
through his work and he felt pressure  to take out the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because:
Halifax has provided a copy of Mr Ws application  form. The box to accept PPI has been 
ticked. In all likelihood, the member of staff would have filled in the application form 
electronically during  the meeting with Mr W and printed it off for signature. As part of this 
process, the member of staff would have needed Mr Ws agreement  to the PPI insurance so 
that the box could be crossed. Mr W would  then have had time to read through the form, 
before signing  to agree that the details were correct.  So, on balance, I think Halifax made 
Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it  although I can 
understand why he can no longer remember this, given it took place so long ago.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to make sure it was suitable  for him. 
Overall, it doesnt look as if the PPI was unsuitable  for Mr W based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Hes told us he wouldve  received three months  full pay followed 
by three  months  half pay if he couldnt  work  due to sickness  or an accident and that he had 
some savings. The PPI wouldve met his monthly  repayments for up to 12 months if he 
couldnt work and covered him if hed become unemployed.  So I think  the PPI couldve been 
a useful benefit for him, in addition to his existing arrangements. 
Ive taken into consideration that Mr W says he wouldve asked family and friends  to meet  
his card repayments if hed needed  to. But, as this wasnt a guaranteed  source of income,  it 
doesnt change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN08699102Mr W says he was strongly recommended  to take the PPI even though he didnt want  it. Ive 
carefully considered  what he says.  I cant be sure exactly  what  was discussed  during the 
meeting. I think its likely the member of staff was persuasive when they recommended  Mr W 
took the PPI. But I havent seen supporting evidence to show that this amounted to undue  
pressure.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr W chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover.  He was not affected  by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr W would have made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  he would still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0869910