K820x#14complaint
Mrs O says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs O bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Os case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint  and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs O says the PPI was added to her account when she called FICL to tell it her 
purse (including her store card) had been stolen. She says she felt pressured into 
taking the cover, and that FICL didnt give her a proper choice.
Ive seen the store card application form Mrs O completed when she applied for 
her card in store. This included a section that Mrs O signed to show that she 
wanted the cover. So it seems Mrs O chose to take the cover when she applied for 
the card  although as these events took place many years ago I can understand 
why she might not recall exactly what happened. 
So from what Ive seen, I think FICL made Mrs O aware she had a choice about 
whether or not to buy the PPI. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs O so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. That means it didnt  have to ask about any other means  that Mrs 
O had to cover her repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended  the policy to Mrs O, it doesnt look as though 
it was unsuitable  for her, based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. Mrs O says she was entitled to benefits  from her employer if she was off 
work sick. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her employer benefits,  
and wouldve meant she could use her sick pay to cover other expenses.  
So I think Mrs O wouldve had some  use for the policy,  despite  her existing 
arrangements.
Its possible  the information FICL  gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs O would have been  affected by any of the 
Ref: DRN00677392main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better information  wouldve stopped her buying it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0067739