K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H bought  a Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2009 in one of the banks  
branches when  they were  taking out a further advance. It included life insurance  as well as 
PPI. The PPI was in Mr Hs sole name  and gave him accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for the policy. This complaint looks  solely at the sale of 
the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the what  we know about 
how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say PPI was added without them knowing. Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork 
from the sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago. Based on what  we know about  
the banks sales  process  at the time, I think its most  likely Mr and Mrs H completed a TMPP 
application form selecting which elements of the cover they wanted, after discussion with the 
bank. I say this as Halifax has provided samples of the documents it used when selling 
TMPP at this time. I cant  find enough  evidence to conclude that it didnt  follow its standard 
sales process here. And I have seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Hs Demands and Needs 
Statement. This summarises the meeting and shows which of the banks recommendations  
they had accepted.
Halifax has also provided the letter it sent Mr and Mrs H after the meeting. This starts  Thank  
you for choosing our optional Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan which suggests to me 
it was presented as optional  in the meeting. And in the offer document  for their further 
advance it said You do not need to buy any insurance through Halifax,  and made  clear  only 
building insurance  was a condition of the loan. 
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs H had a choice about PPI - and they opted 
to take it out for Mr H.
Ref: DRN03787702Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr H to Mr and Mrs H so it had to make sure it was 
suitable. And overall I think the PPI seems  to have been right for Mr H on what  Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time. Mr H said he was entitled to just statutory  sick pay, anything  
more was at his managers discretion. I can only consider any contractual  entitlement  and 
the PPI wouldve paid out for each successful  accident and sickness  and claim for up to 12 
months. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mr H said he had savings worth 
around six months salary  but the PPI would have allowed him to use these to cover  other  
living expenses whilst  not working. 
He also said family and friends would have helped, but thats not suitable alternative 
protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. Mr H told us he also 
had an endowment policy and life cover  but these  are different products and wouldnt help 
with monthly mortgage repayments in the same circumstances as PPI. Given the 
consequences for Mr and Mrs H of defaulting on debt secured against  their home, I think  the 
PPI would have  been useful for them if Mr H was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear (it was set out in the 
paperwork sent after the meeting) but the PPI was competitively priced compared to other  
policies available  at the time, and apparently affordable. I also dont know  when Halifax first 
pointed out the main  things the policy didnt cover. But they dont appear to have  been  
affected by any of those  things. Whilst Mr H had a medical condition at the time of the sale 
hes told us it didnt  affect his day to day life. Hed never had time off work because of it. So 
when he took out the policy I dont think he would have thought  it his condition was a likely 
reason he might need to claim on it. It follows I dont think better information wouldve 
changed their decision.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Hs comments  including their point about being  carers 
and claiming the relevant allowance but this doesnt affect my analysis or change my 
conclusion. For the reasons  set out above,  I dont agree they were  mis-sold PPI. It follows I 
dont think Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs H some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0378770