K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) was faulty at the point of supply.
background
Ms G entered into a HPA with Moneyway to acquire a used car in February 2017. She says 
that in May 2018, a warning light came  on saying that the engine  was too hot and to pull 
over. Ms G did this and waited for the cooling fan to stop. She restarted the car and noted 
the high temperature on the gauge  and drove  to the nearest garage. The garage  identified 
that there  was no coolant and that this had leaked  inside  the engine  causing damage to the 
head gasket. At this time the car would  not restart.
Ms G says she contacted  the dealer which told her a new engine  would cost £4,500 and she 
could get 0% finance to pay for this. Ms G says this was not an option for her and so she 
acquired a second  hand  engine for just under £1,000 and spent around £800 getting this 
replaced. However she says the second engine  is also faulty with no oil pressure.  Ms G says 
she was not aware  that a replacement engine of a similar age would have  the same  issues.
Moneyway says that Ms G contacted it on 30 May 2018 to say the car would not start and 
she had contacted the dealer which would not help because the warranty had expired.  It 
says Ms G said the fault was most likely  related to the head gasket and she believed this to 
be a common fault for the car she had.
Moneyway says it said it would investigate the issue but given how long Ms G had been  in 
possession of the car it was up to her to show that the issue  was present or developing at 
the point of supply. It says it contacted  Ms G twice asking for the requested  evidence  before 
issuing its final response letter  which said her complaint would be closed.
On 27 June 2018, Moneyway says Ms G contacted it to say she had been forced to replace 
the engine but issues had occurred  with the replacement. Following this a further final 
response letter was sent. Moneyway says it has no evidence that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply or evidence of the ongoing  issues.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He didnt think in this case it was fair to ask 
Moneyway to allow the car to be rejected or to refund  payments  Ms G had made.
Ms G did not accept our adjudicators view. She said that the manufacturer had admitted that 
there was a manufacturing fault with the car. She said that when the car failed on 30 May 
2018 Moneyway  asked  her to send evidence  that the head gasket had failed. She said she 
sent this to Moneyway as well as the dealer  and manufacturer.
my provisional conclusions
I issued two provisional decisions on this complaint due to further evidence  becoming 
available. I concluded  in summary:
Ref: DRN00849992Ms G was able to drive the car for around 15 months before the issue  arose  in May 2018 
during which  time she drove over 23,000 miles;
given the time Ms G had been in possession of the car it was reasonable that Moneyway 
asked for evidence that the fault was present at the point of supply;
the information Ms G provided from the manufacturer  about a recall and the actions 
taken by the manufacturer in December  2018 supported Ms Gs claim that the engine 
failed due to a known fault that was developing at the point of supply.  Because  of this I 
found it reasonable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply;
the car was repaired at no cost to Ms G which  I found  a reasonable remedy  to this part of 
the complaint;
Ms G had the initial engine replaced  with a second engine which also failed. As I found 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, I thought it could be said 
that the cost of this replacement engine should  be covered entirely by Moneyway. This 
was because had the car been of satisfactory quality Ms G would not have needed to 
take this action. However, Ms G replaced  the engine without consulting Moneyway and 
had this not happened then she may not have ended up with a second failed engine.  
Given this I thought the fairest  resolution was for Moneyway  to refund Ms G half the total 
costs involved in regard  to the second engine (that is the purchase cost and fitting cost);
the car broke  down in May 2018  and was repaired in December 2018. I didnt think  that 
Ms G should be liable for payments  during  this time.  I understood that Ms G didnt take 
back the car but as it was repaired and available for use I found she should be liable for 
payments after end December 2018,  in other words from the payment due in January 
2019. 
Both parties  responded to my second provisional decision. Moneyway confirmed it 
understood the decision and had nothing further  to add. Ms G accepted  the decision and 
said she had nothing  further to add.
As both parties confirmed  they had nothing  further  to add I have completed my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Ms G acquired a used  car through a HPA.  Under  the regulations, Moneyway is liable if the 
car was not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. At the time of acquisition the car 
was four years old and had been driven  over 31,000 miles.
In this case Ms G was able to drive her car for a number of months and cover a reasonable 
mileage before the issues arose.  Ms G wasnt aware of the known fault with her type of car 
Ref: DRN00849993at the point of failure. Due to her need  for a car she had the engine  replaced. However this 
engine also failed.
As I have already  set out I find it more likely  than not that the issue  with the original engine 
was due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply. The car has been 
repaired but I find it reasonable  that Ms G is refunded  half the cost of the second engine.  
She has provided copies  of the payment for the engine (£960) and the cost of having this 
fitted (£504). This totals £1,464. I note there were additional items recorded on the invoice  
when the engine was fitted but I have just included the specific  engine fitting cost.
Also as I have set out, I think Ms G should be refunded for the time when the car wasnt 
usable, that is from when it broke down in May 2018  to when it was repaired at end 
December 2018
Ms G has made it clear  that she had to get a replacement car and no longer wishes to keep 
this car. Therefore I would expect Moneyway to discuss  Ms Gs options regarding  the return 
of the car and ending of her agreement  with her in a timely way.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as 
Moneyway) should:
1.refund  Ms G £732,  being  half the costs incurred in replacing  the engine  (invoices  for 
the replacement  engine and fitting costs have been provided);
2.refund  Ms G her repayments from 31 May 2018  along with 8% simple  a year from the 
date of payment  up to end December 2018 when the car was repaired and available 
for use; and
3.remove any adverse information  from her credit file for the period of payments from 
May 2018 to December  2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0084999