K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service shes received from Erudio Student Loans Limited 
(Erudio). 
background
Miss M has a student loan with Erudio. On 1 September 2018, Erudio wrote  to Miss M to 
updated her on the status of her account. It also said that Miss M owed £160.16 in arrears,  
and on her next monthly payment  - 25 September 2018 - £144.55 would leave her account.  
Miss M contacted Erudio  to complain about  the contents of the letter.  She said:
-her account was in deferment, so a payment wasnt owed. 
-her account wasnt in arrears. 
-the letter arrived weeks  after it was dated  so there had been  a delay in her receiving 
important information. 
-This wasnt  the first time Erudio had made  mistakes and she wanted to be 
compensated for the time spent trying to resolve  these issues. 
Erudio confirmed Miss Ms account  was in deferment and accepted  it hadnt made it clear  
what would  happen  if a consumers account  was already in deferment. It apologised for any 
confusion caused  by not explaining this in its letter.
Erudio said the arrears had been  incorrectly applied to Miss Ms account as a result of an 
internal error, but that it had corrected this so her account was up to date. 
It said that while the data required to generate Miss Ms letter was pulled from its system on 
1 September 2018, because of the volumes  of customers affected, the letter wasnt sent until 
the week of 10 September  2018. Erudio  added that it couldnt be responsible  for any 
subsequent delays in the postal system. 
Erudio apologised  for any distress Miss M had experienced  as a result of its actions, and it 
paid £50 compensation to reflect the inconvenience  she experienced.
Miss M remained  unhappy and so brought her complaint to this service.  She said Erudio had 
taken too long to address her complaint, and was concerned it would a negatively  impact her 
credit file. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ms complaint and was satisfied Erudio had done enough 
to resolve things fairly. She explained  although  Erudio had incorrectly said Miss M was in 
arrears and that a payment was due, a payment wasnt taken  and so Miss M hadnt  suffered 
financial loss as a result. 
While Miss M received  the letter sometime after it was initially  sent, the investigator didnt 
think Erudio was at fault for the time it had taken  to arrive. And she thought  £50 fairly 
reflected the inconvenience and worry Miss M had been caused. Erudio had also confirmed 
Miss Ms credit file hadnt been negatively affected.  
Ref: DRN03677362Miss M remained  unhappy and so the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain.
Understandably, Miss M wouldve been concerned to read she was in arrears upon  receiving  
the letter from Erudio.  I can see Erudio referred the matter to its relevant department on the 
same day Miss M complained, and the arrears were removed two weeks later. So Im 
satisfied appropriate  action was taken and within a reasonable timeframe to resolve things.  
The letter refers to a payment being  taken from Miss M on the same  day she received it  25 
September 2018. And I can understand why from reading this, Miss M would have 
experienced some degree of worry. But I need  to keep in mind  that the circumstances Miss 
M was worried  about  being able to make  the payment at what shes  told us was a difficult  
time for her - didnt actually arise  because a payment  wasnt taken. And while  I acknowledge 
the letter didnt  explicitly say what happens  when a loan is in deferment, Miss M knew her 
account had been deferred  at this time and that itd been agree she wouldnt be making 
payments. So I think this limits the impact Erudios actions had on her. 
It seems  the delay in Miss M receiving the letter was in part due to Erudio not sending  it at 
the time the letter was originally generated. Given it took until 25 September  2018 for Miss M 
to receive it, it seems there might have also been postal issues  outside  of Erudios control 
which contributed  to the time it took to be delivered. 
Miss M is also unhappy with how long Erudio took to resolve  her complaint. Businesses 
have eight weeks in which to provide a final response to a consumers concerns. Although I 
appreciate Miss M wanted the matter resolved quickly, Erudio provided its final response by 
mid-November  which was within eight weeks  so Im satisfied it met its obligation. 
Erudio has said £50 compensation reflects the inconvenience Miss M was caused  as a 
result of its letter not being clear, and its apologised for any worry she was caused. I agree 
the letter couldve been clearer, and I dont dispute that Miss M was caused avoidable worry. 
But Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Erudio has done enough to put things right and so I 
wont be asking to increase the compensation payment its already paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0367736