K820x#14complaint
Ms H took out a Travel Plus Account (TPA)  with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) from May 
2019 for which she was charged monthly fees.  She says it was mis-sold.
background
Im aware that Ms H has made  a range of complaints about accounts,  loans, and insurances  
she has held with Barclays, including  allegations of fraud. I want  to be clear  that this decision 
is only about the sale of the TPA.
I also want to re-assure  Ms H that all the other complaints she has made are being  looked at 
under another case with this service  and the outcome of this decision does  not affect that 
case.
Ms H says that she took out a TPA online and it was mis-sold. 
Barclays says it didnt  do anything wrong  in the sale.
Our adjudicator also thought that Barclays didnt do anything wrong but Ms H disagrees so 
the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms Hs complaint.
I need firstly  to consider two things; did Ms H know she had a choice whether to take out a 
fee free account or the TPA she bought;  and did Barclays  advise her to buy the TPA account 
or not. 
In my view Ms H did know she had a choice. I say this because Ms H had previously had a 
fee free account with an overdraft facility  with Barclays  and I think  its more likely  than not 
that she would have known that other  fee free accounts with overdraft facilities  were widely 
available from other banks and building societies.  So I think Ms H was aware she had a 
choice and chose  to take the TPA out.
Did Barclays advise her to take out the TPA account? 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
TPA account  to Ms H personally or advise her to take it out. 
The TPA was taken out online so in my view it was an information  only sale as it didnt involve 
Barclays providing a personal recommendation. This means  Barclays  did not have to ensure 
that the TPA was suitable for Ms H at the time of the sale. The only requirement on Barclays 
was to provide  her with enough  information  for her to make  an informed choice.
Ms H could only have upgraded to the TPA by logging into her Barclays  online account using 
her identification  and password. So I think its more likely than not that she did this and took 
out the TPA based on the information Barclays provided online. 
Ref: DRN00918872The TPA benefits included worldwide travel  insurance, car breakdown service, airport lounge  
access and a fee free overdraft up to £200. 
Ive reviewed how the TPA is presented  online  and I think  there  is enough information there to 
enable Ms H to make  an informed decision.
So I dont  think Barclays did anything wrong in the TPA account  sale,  and I cant uphold Ms 
Hs complaint.
For completeness, I note that amongst  the complaints Ms H has made are issues about 
communication with Barclays  and the possibility that someone within  Barclays  is interfering 
with her account. As I said above these things  are being looked  at in a separate case  to this, 
and this decision doesnt affect  Ms Hs ability to pursue those complaints.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0091887