K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that he was advised  in 1994  by K.A. Ripley,  Esq (KAR) to transfer his 
occupational pension benefits from the Mineworkers  Occupational Scheme (MPS) to a 
personal pension.  He does not believe this was appropriate and has caused him financial 
loss. 
background
My understanding is that Mr R was a member  of the MPS from 1979 to 1993. The MPS  was 
a final salary (defined benefit) scheme. In 1994 Mr R says he was advised by KAR to 
transfer these benefits  to a personal pension.  He says he was told that his benefits  would be 
higher by transferring to the personal pension. Mr R is represented and his representative 
says that his attitude to risk was not established, insufficient fact finding  took place, he was 
not told of the risk of the funds in which he invested, was not told about  the guaranteed  
benefits he was giving  up and was not told about  the applicable fees and charges.  It said 
that Mr R was not financially sophisticated  and had left school at 15 without any formal 
qualifications. He had no idea that he had been mis-sold until 2017 when he discussed the 
situation with it. It asked that KAR carry out a pension review to calculate if Mr R had lost out 
financially.
Mr R provided  a Witness Statement in which  he set out that he didnt fully understand the 
literature he was sent from pension providers and didnt  have the financial acumen to do so. 
He said he had been variously  employed  as a labourer,  painter, mineworker  and security  
guard. He was married  with three children at the time of the transfer and he didnt have  any 
other pension schemes at the time. His wife did not have  a pension scheme. 
Mr R says that he met with KAR on the recommendation  of a friend because he was in 
financial difficulty and wished to sort out his pension. He says that KAR told him it was in his 
best interest to transfer the pension  as he would be better off in a personal pension and he 
could keep paying into it. He said that he planned  to retire at 55. He said he could not 
remember if any comparisons had been given to him of the MPS and personal pension or if 
he was advised  that the personal pension was not guaranteed or if the spouses benefits of 
the MPS  were explained. He says he does  recall KAR discussing the spouse benefits from 
the personal pension.   
Mr R referred  his complaint to this service at which  point  KAR said that it had been made too 
late. An adjudicator at this service considered that issue but his view that Mr R had 
complained in time.   
KAR then made further submissions concerning whether the complaint had been made in 
time. However, the adjudicator was still of the view that we could consider the complaint. He 
was not persuaded that the evidence suggested that Mr R was aware he had cause  for 
complaint prior to 2017. 
KAR subsequently provided a list of its clients which it said indicated that it had carried out a 
pension review for Mr R. It added that Mr R had wished to retire  at 55 and this, together with 
the ability to take higher tax free cash, were the reasons for the transfer. KAR said the 
benefits Mr R had achieved confirmed that the advice it had given was appropriate.  KAR 
also highlighted a letter  from the MPS  administrator, which it says suggested Mr R was 
aware in 1993  of the potential issues with the transfer. 
Ref: DRN01471192The investigator was not persuaded that the list KAR had provided indicated that a pension  
review had been carried out and so the complaint was then passed to an ombudsman  to 
decide whether  the complaint had been  made in time.  The  ombudsman  issued  a decision 
setting out that the complaint had been  made in time.
The adjudicator then went on to consider the merits  of the complaint. The adjudicator set out 
that KAR had an obligation  to give suitable  advice to Mr R. And that it also had an obligation  
to consider the guaranteed benefits Mr R was giving  up in transferring and the risk of 
transferring. He had not seen any evidence of any recommendations provided to Mr R, a full 
transfer value  analysis or that Mr Rs options  were  fully considered. He did not believe it had 
been demonstrated that Mr R had been  given appropriate advice and he therefore upheld 
the complaint  and suggested a redress calculation be carried  out. He suggested that 
calculation should  assume Mr R would have taken  benefits from the MPS at age 50  as this 
is what he did with his personal pension. 
KAR did not accept the adjudicators assessment. In summary it said:
The complaint  had been made too late  later than the three and six year time limits 
allowed under  the applicable rules. Mr R would have known either at the point he 
annuitized, received annual  statements or had earlier conversations  with KAR of a 
cause for complaint.  
Mr R realised his objective  taking tax free cash and income  early   that was the 
rationale behind  the advice.
Mr R received warnings about the pension transfer from the scheme and KAR.
KAR did complete a pension  review   26 years ago.
Mr Rs representative has issued a speculative complaint.
Deferred benefit  records  only had to be retained from September  1994  this advice 
predated that. 
The FCA did not hold records going  back to the PASS review.  
Consequently the complaint has been passed to me for review.
my findings
time limits
Whether the complaint had been  made  in time has already been considered  by an 
ombudsman who issued  a decision  setting out that the complaint had been  made  in time. 
That ombudsman considered the submissions  and evidence that KAR has referred to and I 
have not seen any new evidence which would mean that decision should be reviewed. So 
the complaint  has been made  in time and I will go on to consider the merits. 
the merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01471193Mr R had about 13 years service in the MPS. So this was a significant pension  entitlement  
and likely to form a significant part of his total retirement benefits. 
KAR has supplied a Fact  Find which it says was completed at the time the advice was 
given to transfer. This does appear  to be from that period as it records  that Mr R has recently  
been made redundant from his employer.  This document does record  that Mr R was 36 and 
married with three dependent children. No investments  or savings are recorded and his 
previous earnings  are not recorded.  It was set out that, we are looking at the viability  of 
transferring his retained benefits within MPS. There is an attitude  to risk scale  but this has 
not been completed.  
KAR has said that it would have explained  the advantages and disadvantages  of leaving the 
MPS at the time and Mr R understood them. It says that he wanted early  access  to his 
pension plan without  early penalties and also wanted his family to be able to access the fund 
should he die. It said the investment funds chosen matched Mr R's attitude to risk at the 
time, which was low/medium. It says it also made  Mr R aware of the benefits he was giving 
up by leaving the scheme.  
KAR has also highlighted  one of its records which it says indicates that it carried out a 
pension review for Mr R. This is a handwritten sheet which  shows  a number of individuals. A 
Mr R is listed  and it is indicated that he transferred  his pension.  There  is a column 
Reason/Conclusion which for Mr R has been  completed: 
MPS to PP 
TVA 9.65%
I believe this likely  means Miners Pension  Scheme to personal pension,  Transfer Value 
Analysis 9.65%.
A copy of the Transfer Value Analysis is not available but I have assumed for the purposes 
of this complaint  that the Transfer Value Analysis  return rate required is accurate. This is the 
rate that is required to match  the benefits given up from the transferring scheme. The rate 
was within  the acceptable returns of what could  be assumed at the time could  be obtained in 
future. However  it does not necessarily mean  that Mr R was given  appropriate and suitable 
advice to transfer.  
The MPS has confirmed  that Mr R had a deferred pension of approximately  £6,500 a year 
when he was made redundant. The scheme  retirement age was 60 but 86% of the pension 
could be taken as early as age 50. The pension was guaranteed  to be paid (save  the 
unlikely event of scheme  default) and would  include  guaranteed increases both before and 
after retirement, and also included dependents benefits. There were  no known concerns with 
the safety of the MPS.  
It is my understanding that Mr R took benefits  from his personal pension  at 50 in 2007 and 
he took tax free cash of about  £29,000 and purchased an annuity that included 50% 
spouses benefit. 
KAR says that it did explain to Mr R the benefits he would be giving up and the advantages 
and disadvantages  of this course  of action. However  it has not been able to supply any 
documents confirming  what recommendations it gave or what it explained to Mr R. Mr R 
says he does not recall  such  a conversation.  I have  considered the other  evidence  including  
the Fact Find. Mr R was in an uncertain  position when the advice was given. He had taken 
Ref: DRN01471194redundancy and was looking  for work. He was also married and had three dependent 
children. He had very modest resources  no savings or other investments are recorded 
(although I note KAR says he would have received a redundancy payment). 
Final Salary  occupational pension schemes typically have significant benefits and 
guarantees, such as a guaranteed level of income, guaranteed increases  in payment and 
guaranteed increases for deferred pensions. In Mr Rs case, in addition  to those benefits, the 
scheme  also provided for dependents, and provided spouses  pensions. Giving up those 
benefits and subjecting future  pension income  to the risks associated  with volatile 
investment returns should only be done where it can be evidenced that this is clearly in the 
best interest of the consumer. 
In terms of maximising growth, there was no guarantee  that transferring Mr Rs occupational 
pensions would improve his situation.  The transfer actually transferred the risk of providing 
benefits from the MPS to Mr R  as he was now dependent on the fortunes of his own 
investments.
What is relevant to the suitability of the advice therefore are the risks he was taking on and 
whether he could bear those risks.
I have not seen an attitude  to risk grading  for Mr R but KAR says he was low/medium and 
Mr R says he was low.  In terms of the investment risks he was taking, the rate of growth 
needed to match the benefits  given up was apparently almost 10%. So to improve  upon the 
benefits provided by the MPS,  investment returns up to retirement would need to exceed  
this. 10% net a year is a significant rate and brings  with it the very real risk that this will not 
be achieved. 
Therefore there was significant risk that, even assuming considerable positive annual 
investment returns,  any increase in benefits would not be achieved  and there was the real 
risk the benefits would be less. That would include any tax free cash to be supplied.
In transferring Mr R no longer had any of the guarantees discussed, pension  increases or 
dependants benefits and would be dependent on investment performance from the personal 
pension scheme. 13 years service in a final salary scheme is a significant benefit  and it 
would not normally  be advisable to give up those benefits. I have not seen that Mr R had 
experience of taking  the kind of risks this transfer  presented. He was not financially  
sophisticated and I believe  he would have been  entirely dependent on KARs 
recommendation. And that recommendation was to transfer. 
Overall, Mr Rs circumstances do not suggest  he was an individual in the position  to be able 
to take the risk of transferring the guaranteed  benefits provided  by the MPS. The 
recommendation led to him taking on the significant  risk that the future  benefits  provided by 
her new personal pension would be less than those provided by the MPS.  In his situation  I 
do not believe the recommendation was suitable.  I dont  believe the potential  for increased 
benefits justified  the recommendation in his situation. 
Furthermore I am not persuaded that Mr Rs wish to, ideally, retire  at 50 or (as he says)  55 
justifies the transfer. The ability to retire earlier than the normal  MPS  retirement  date was 
available. Mr R did not have to transfer  to achieve that. And in any event his decision  might 
have been different if he had fully appreciated the benefits he was giving up. He also had, in 
the event of death, significant protection for his spouse and dependents  via the MPS. He did 
Ref: DRN01471195not have to transfer to provide that and the transfer  made the level of death benefits 
uncertain. 
  
Given Mr Rs specific circumstances  I do not believe he should  have been advised to 
transfer or that was suitable  in his circumstances. And, on balance,  I think it is more likely  
that he was not fully aware of what benefits  he was giving up. I note the letter  he was sent by 
the administrators of the MPS and the explanation  of benefits  but Mr R was positively 
advised to transfer after this by KAR and I believe he would have accepted KARs advice 
that this was something he should  do. 
Consequently I do not believe the advice to transfer was in his best interests and the 
complaint should  be upheld.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr R 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in but for the actions of KAR.
I think with suitable  and appropriate advice  Mr R would have kept his existing benefits in the 
MPS. 
KAR must therefore undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in October  2017.  This should 
assume that Mr R took benefits from the MPS at 50.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the 
FCAs most  recent  financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In 
accordance with the regulators expectations,  this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the 
decision. 
KAR may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
In addition, KAR should pay Mr R £200 for the upset and inconvenience  he has been caused 
by the unsuitable transfer. 
Ref: DRN01471196determination and money award : my final decision is that KAR pay Mr R compensation as 
set out above,  up to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr R 
within 90 days of the date KAR receives  notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes KAR to pay Mr R this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I also recommend  that KAR pays Mr R the balance. I further recommend interest 
to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time,  in excess of 90 
days, that it takes KAR to pay Mr R from the date it receives notification  of his acceptance  of 
the decision, as set out above.
If Mr R accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on KAR.  My recommendation 
is not binding  on KAR. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept  my determination and go to court  to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr R may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  K.A. Ripley, Esq. to calculate and pay redress as detailed 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0147119