K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant)  unfairly declined her 
claim for a lost fitness  device under a gadget insurance policy. 
background
In September  2018, Miss T contacted  Assurant  to register a claim for damage to a fitness  
device. She said the strap  had broken and so she couldnt wear  it. 
When Miss T called  Assurant a few days later to pay the excess, it told her shed need to 
return the device  in order for it to be repaired.  Miss T said she thought it would be replaced, 
or that shed  be given  money to buy a replacement. While on the phone Miss T looked in her 
car for the device but said she couldnt find it. 
Miss T called Assurant a few minutes later to register a claim for a lost device. Again she 
said she didnt realise shed need to send the item for repair. She said shed looked for it in 
her car and around  her home but couldnt  find it and suspected it may have been lost when 
she moved house. She said she thought  itd been  missing for approximately one month but 
that she couldnt be sure as shed not been  wearing it since the strap  had broken. 
When later completing the claim form in October 2018 Miss T said shed initially put in a 
claim for damage but changed it to a claim for loss when she couldnt find the device. 
Assurant declined the claim and wrote  to Miss T to say it believed the claim had been made 
fraudulently. Assurant said Miss T had provided  false and inaccurate information.  It said 
Miss T had changed the details about how the device was lost - as she said it was originally 
lost in her car and then her house.  And shed  changed the claim from being one of damage 
to loss.
Miss T was unhappy that her claim had been declined and so brought  a complaint  to this 
service. Our investigator considered it and said as Miss Ts version  of events had changed,  
she didnt think it was unreasonable for Assurant to decline the claim on the basis  of it 
having been given misleading  and false information.  
Miss T remained  unhappy and so the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on everything  Ive seen, I wont be 
upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, which say:
If your gadget is damaged or breaks down we will either:
1)Repair the gadget (where possible), or 
2)Replace it with a gadget of the same make, model and memory size [].
Ref: DRN03490552Assurant said it would  repair Miss Ts device in the first instance.  As the policy terms state 
Assurant can repair or replace an item,  Im satisfied it acted  fairly  by asking Miss T to return 
the item to it for repair.
The policy goes on to say:
If you are unable to provide the damaged  gadget to support your claim for a damage 
or breakdown incident, then this will be classified as a lost gadget.
Based on this it would  seem that as Miss T said she wasnt able to find her device,  and could 
therefore not send it to Assurant to be repaired,  it should  follow  that the claim  be classified 
as one of loss. But Assurant has declined the claim on the basis that it was made 
fraudulently.
For me to be satisfied that Assurant has acted fairly by declining Miss Ts claim, I need to be 
persuaded that it was more likely than not that she provided false  information and with a 
view to obtain something she wasnt entitled  to. 
When a claim  is made, the onus  is on the consumer to prove  it - so in this instance,  Miss T 
needed to prove that shed lost her device. But Im not persuaded shes done this and Ill 
explain why.
Miss Ts claim was initially for a damaged device, but shortly  after she changed  this to a 
claim for loss. This in itself wouldnt necessarily lead me to say shed provided false 
information. But when  considered in the context of the phone  conversation  she had with 
Assurant, Im more persuaded that she did provide misleading information. I say this 
because upon  learning that she needed to provide her device to be repaired,  rather than 
replaced, Miss T said she wanted to cancel her claim for damage, and change  it to one for 
loss. 
While I appreciate Miss T said she didnt know the device was missing until she went  to look 
for it, Im not persuaded this was case. When Miss T reported  her claim she hadnt  
apparently seen her device for a number  of weeks and shed also gone  through  a house  
move in that time. She said she recalled  packing  her device before the house move.  So I 
think its unusual that shed be reporting  a damage claim if in fact she didnt know where  the 
device was because  she hadnt seen it for many weeks.  
When Miss T made  her claim for damage  she only changed her mind about what  she was 
claiming for when she learned shed need  to send the device to Assurant for repair.  It was at 
this point she claimed to have lost the device,  or at least couldnt find it. The changes  in 
account about what happened  made it very difficult for Assurant to assess  the validity of the 
claim. If the device was damaged, as initially claimed, it could have been repaired.  Assurant 
would have been able to see that the device  existed and that it was damaged. And if it 
couldnt have  been repaired then a replacement or cash amount could have been provided. 
The fact that Miss T then wasnt  able to provide the device  understandably,  in my view,  
caused Assurant  some concerns. The context of each claim is materially different: in a 
damage claim requiring  repair Assurant  would get possession of the damaged  item to repair. 
But the loss claim  meant Assurant was far more  reliant on the integrity of the information 
Miss T was giving because it wouldnt see the physical  item.  
Having thought about this very carefully Im not persuaded  Miss T has done enough to prove 
she has a valid claim under the policy. The information Miss T gave Assurant  was markedly  
Ref: DRN03490553different and, in my view, in such contradiction that the information  was misleading. And in 
these circumstances  it reasonably follows that I dont  think  Assurant has acted unfairly by 
saying false and misleading information had been provided. 
I next need to consider whether it was fair for Assurant to decline  the claim on this basis. 
The Insurance Act 2015 states that if a business  considers a claim to be false it doesnt  have  
to pay the claim, and that it can cancel the policy from the date of the fraudulent  act. And 
thats what Assurant  has done here. So Im satisfied its acted fairly. As such  I wont be 
asking it to do anything  else.
I know my decision will disappoint Miss T but I hope  she understands why Ive not upheld it
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0349055