K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited,  trading as Alphera Financial Services,  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and was misrepresented to her. Her partner  is also involved with her 
complaint and shes being helped  with it by her representative.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss T under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera Financial 
Services that she signed in August 2016.  The car was more than three years old and its 
mileage was recorded on the agreement  as being 58,493  miles.  Miss T had problems with 
the car in February 2018 and it was taken to a manufacturers dealer for repairs. The cars 
turbo and crank shaft were repaired for which Miss T paid £1,929.04  but she says that 
there was a substantial  contribution from the repairing garage.  The repairing garage  made  a 
claim to the manufacturer  but it was rejected because the car had a very poor service 
history. Miss T had a further problem with the car in May 2018 which was found to be a 
broken oil pump chain  and a replacement engine was required.  
Miss T complained to Alphera Financial  Services  that the car had been misrepresented to 
her because she was told that it had a full and good  service history. Alphera Financial 
Services offered to refund two monthly payments  totalling £567.54  because of the issues  
with the car. Miss T didnt  accept its offer and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  that 
thered been a misrepresentation  about the cars  full service  history and nor did he think  that 
thered been a breach  of contract by the dealer.
Miss Ts representative, on her behalf,  has asked for this complaint  to be considered by an 
ombudsman. He says,  in summary,  that all of the cars services shouldve  been at 12,500 
mile intervals - but they werent  so its not reasonable to describe the car as having  a full 
service history. He says that theres compelling  evidence that the service  intervals  hadnt  
been complied  with, which is likely to have compromised the life expectancy of the engine  
and ancillary parts  due to, amongst other things, the oil and filter not being changed in good 
time. And he says that the dealer  failed  to disclose that information prior to sale so Miss T 
has the right to rescind the contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was more than three years old and had been driven for 58,493  miles when it was 
supplied to Miss T in August 2016. The cars  turbo and crank  shaft  needed to be repaired in 
February 2018 and the repairing garages invoice records  the cars mileage as being  74,547  
miles at that time. So Miss T had been  able to use the car for about  18 months to drive  more 
than 16,000 miles before those repairs were required. So Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that the turbo or crank shaft  were  faulty when  the car was supplied 
to Miss T  and I dont consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at that time.  There  
was another issue  with the cars engine in May 2018  but I dont consider that that shows 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Miss T.
Ref: DRN09869482When the car was repaired in February 2018, the repairing dealer made a claim to the 
manufacturer  but it was rejected because the manufacturer said that the car had a very 
poor service history. The manufacturer  recommends that the car is serviced the sooner of 
every twelve  months and every 12,500 miles. 
A digital service history  is kept for the car and I consider it to be more  likely than not that the 
manufacturer was relying on that service  history when it considered the repairing dealers 
claim. The digital service history shows that there  was no first service for the car, that the 
second service took place  in September 2014  when  the cars mileage was 25,751, the third 
service was in May 2015 when the mileage was 41,704 and the fourth  service  was in April 
2016 (four months  before  the car was supplied to Miss T) when the mileage  was 55,473.  
The dealer  has provided a different service  history for the car. It shows  that the first service  
took place in March 2014 when the cars mileage was 13,550   and a copy  of the service 
record has been provided. It then shows that the second service took place in September  
2014 when the cars  mileage was 25,175, the third service took place in April 2015 when the 
cars mileage was 40,423 and the fourth  service  took place in April 2016 when the cars 
mileage was 55,473.
There are some discrepancies between  the digital service history  and the service history  
provided by the dealer  but Im not persuaded that those discrepancies  are enough  to 
cause either  of the records to be considered to be unreliable. And I consider that the dealer  
has provided enough evidence to show that the car was serviced in March 2014.  Each  of the 
services has taken  place  after longer  than the recommended  service  interval  but I dont 
consider that to be unreasonable on a car thats being driven for nearly 20,000 miles each 
year. And Im not persuaded that its enough  to cause  the service  history to be considered  as 
poor.
Miss T says that she was told that the car had a full and good  service history.  The dealer has 
been unable  to provide  a copy of the advert  for the car but it doesnt dispute that the car was 
advertised as having a full and good service  history. I consider that the dealers service 
history shows  that the car did have a full and good service history. So Im not persuaded that 
the cars  service history was misrepresented to Miss T. Miss T had the opportunity  to check 
the cars  service history before the car was supplied to her and I dont consider it to be likely 
that she wouldnt have  selected the car if shed been  made  aware of the dealers service 
history.
The manufacturer first referred to the car as having  a poor service  history  and I dont 
consider that to be enough to show that the car did have a poor service  history when it was 
supplied to Miss T. 
For these reasons, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require Alphera Financial Services to accept  Miss Ts rejection of the car, or to pay her 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint. But it has offered 
to refund two monthly payments totalling £567.54  to her. If she now wishes to accept that 
offer she should contact  Alphera Financial Services to see if the offer remains available to 
her.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN09869483Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0986948