K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly provided  him with an 
unaffordable credit  card and unaffordable  loans.
Background
Mr M also has a complaint about an overdraft he jointly took out with his wife. And Mr Ms 
wife has her own complaint about loans in her sole name. Weve looked  at those complaints 
separately and I wont be offering  any opinion on whether those credit facilities  should  have 
been provided. That said, I will be referring  to facts of those products  insofar  as they are 
relevant to Mr Ms application  for his loans and credit card.
Lloyds initially provided Mr M with a credit  card in October 2008. This card was provided with 
an initial credit  limit of £4,000.00. In June 2013, the limit was decreased to £1,000.00 and in 
April 2016, the limit was once again  reduced  to £850. In June 2018, the limit was increased 
to £5,000.00 before it was finally reduced  to £3,000.00 in December  2018.  Mr M has 
confirmed hes only complaining about the limit adjustments from June 2018 onwards.
Lloyds provided  Mr M with a loan for £10,000.00 in June 2015 (loan 1 for the purposes of 
this decision). The loan was due to be repaid in 36 monthly payments of £371.04. Mr M 
repaid this loan with some of the proceeds  from a loan for £17,10410, which was taken in 
August 2016 (loan 2 for the purposes of this decision). This loan was also due to be repaid 
in 36 monthly payments  but this time of £577.  Loan 2 was settled  with some of the proceeds 
from a loan provided to Mr Ms wife in February 2017. Finally, Mr M was provided with a third 
loan in November  2017 (loan 3 for the purposes  of this decision). This loan was for 
£15,000.00 and due to be repaid  in 60 monthly payments of £399.09.
When it investigated Mr Ms complaint,  Lloyds  agreed to refund the interest and charges 
added to loan 3 as a gesture of goodwill.  But it didnt  think it had done anything  wrong  when 
providing loans  1 and 2, or increasing Mr Ms credit card limit. Mr M remained dissatisfied 
with Lloyds offer and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint. She thought  that Lloyds shouldnt 
have provided  Mr M with any of his loans or the credit card increase in June 2018. Lloyds 
disagreed with our investigator and so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
As Lloyds  has already  agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges on loan 3 and this 
is what Id normally tell a lender to do in circumstances where I were to uphold a complaint, 
Ive not looked at this loan as part of this decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive considered this while 
provisionally deciding  Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I think that there are three overarching 
questions that I need  to consider in order to provisionally decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. These questions are:    
Ref: DRN07753272Did Lloyds carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay any credit  advanced in a sustainable  way?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Lloyds ought reasonably to have  realised it was increasing Mr Ms 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further credit?
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably  towards Mr M in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these  questions in turn.
Did Lloyds carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would  be 
able to repay any credit advanced in a sustainable way?
The rules  and regulations throughout the period Lloyds lent to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Lloyds had to think  about whether sustainably  
repaying any amounts  lent would  cause difficulties or adverse consequences  for Mr M. In 
practice this meant that Lloyds had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause  
Mr M undue difficulty  or adverse consequences. In other words,  it wasnt enough for Lloyds 
to simply think  about the likelihood  of it getting its money back,  it had to consider the impact  
of any repayments  on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Lloyds did what it needed  to before providing Mr M 
with his loan. 
Ref: DRN07753273Were Lloyds  checks reasonable and proportionate
Lloyds final response  told Mr M that it used  a process credit  scoring  to assess a customers 
application. It said credit scoring  helped it to decide  whether  to lend money  and it worked by 
awarding Mr M points based on the information  he provided about himself  and information 
held on his credit file at the credit reference agency.
It used this information to predict how big a risk it was taking by lending  Mr M money. If Mr M
scored enough points, it took his application  to the next stage. Based on the information  it 
had available, it was satisfied all of Mr Ms loans and credit  card limit increases were 
affordable. However,  as loan 3 left Mr Ms finances tight it agreed to refund the interest, fees 
and charges added to this loan. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Lloyds has said. I want to start by saying that it doesnt  
automatically follow that a lender will have acted fairly and reasonably  when providing a loan 
simply because it acted  in line with its policy. I think it is important  for me to point this out 
here. 
Secondly, while Lloyds has referred to its general  processes in relation to what  it would 
usually do during an application process,  it hasnt said anything at all about what  the 
information it obtained showed  other than it was prepared to take the lending risk here.  
Furthermore, Ive already  explained that Lloyds was required to do more than simply 
assessing the risk of default  in other  words  the credit risk it was taking - it also had to 
consider the impact of the repayments  to the credit on Mr M. 
Its also worth pointing  out that simply requesting  information from a borrower doesnt, on its 
own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused  assessment of the 
borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. And it seems to me that Lloyds treated each of 
Mr Ms applications in isolation with little regard to what had happened previously or how his 
circumstances were  evolving. In my view, this approach failed to take into account Mr M was 
a repeat borrower and assess the plausibility of any disposable income amount arrived at 
against what was happening on Mr Ms various accounts with Lloyds.
To explain, Im concerned  that Lloyds appears  to have agreed to loan 1, via on online 
application, based on a declaration of Mr Ms disposable income. This is even though Lloyds  
will have been aware that the balance on Mr Ms credit card was over his agreed credit  limit 
and this had been the case  for a number of months. Mr Ms joint overdraft was also over its 
agreed limit at the time of this application too and hed been  incurring unarranged overdraft 
and returned item fees too. In my view, Mr M being over his credit card limit for as long as he 
had been and struggling to manage a £4,500.00  overdraft suggested that he might  have  had 
difficulties and it was incumbent upon  Lloyds to have verified this wasnt  the case  before 
agreeing to advance further credit.  
For loan 2, Im concerned  that it appears  to have been agreed even though the notes  on     
Mr Ms account suggest the application  had been  declined a week  previously and this 
decision couldnt be overturned even though  there was an accepted loan previously. The 
notes do not say what it was that persuaded Lloyds to change  a decision which couldnt be 
overturned. And while Mr M wasnt over his credit card limit at this stage, he was once again  
at the limit of his joint overdraft, even though the loan provided a year earlier was supposed 
to have cleared  these  balances. Indeed,  Mr M would in fact have been well over his 
overdraft limit had it not been for a money transfer  being made from a credit card with 
another provider.
Ref: DRN07753274For the credit card limit increase in June 2018, Mr Ms limit was increased  by over 5 times its 
previous amount even though hed been provided with a loan for £15,000.00 a mere matter  
of months earlier. And this increase was provided  at a time when Mr Ms joint account was 
starting to have direct debits returned  too. So notwithstanding what  may have been 
determined during the credit scoring  in the individual applications, it seems to me that there 
were a number of warning  signs suggesting Mr M might have been struggling at the time he 
was provided with this further credit. And I think that Lloyds failed to take into account the 
whole picture of its overall lending history with Mr M, in favour  of a narrower focus  on the 
individual applications, which presented a more favourable picture  of a deteriorating position. 
As theres  no evidence  that Lloyds asked for, or considered, further information to properly 
scrutinise and address  the warning signs Ive highlighted, I find that it didnt  complete  fair, 
reasonable and proportionate affordability  checks before providing Mr M with either of his 
loans or his credit card limit increase.
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Lloyds ought reasonably  to have realised it was increasing Mr Ms indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent  carried out before Mr Ms loans and credit 
card limit increase were provided, I cant say for sure what  they wouldve shown. And 
ordinarily Id need to decide whether it is more likely than not that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have told Lloyds it shouldnt have provided this further credit.  
However, I dont think that it is necessary for me to do this here. 
I say this because  Im mindful  that the relevant rules and guidance make  it clear that a 
lender shouldnt continue offering credit where the borrowing is unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful and/or where its apparent the borrower  may be experiencing financial difficulties. So 
in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual lending decision,  I also 
think its fair and reasonable to look at what unfolded during the course of Mr Ms 
relationship with Lloyds. 
Lloyds response  to our investigator acknowledged  that Mr M had displayed  signs  of 
struggling to manage  at the time of loan 1. And this loan was provided to put Mr M in a 
stronger financial position by repaying his credit card and overdraft. It argues that had it not 
attempted to assist  Mr M at this stage  his financial difficulties  would  have occurred sooner 
and without any support  or help which gave him the opportunity  to resolve  his position at the 
time. 
It further says that, at the point of application, it wasnt  to know Mr M would then go on to use 
the overdraft and credit card again,  thus causing  him to take out a further loan in 2016. In 
Lloyds view, Mr M chose to use his credit  card and overdraft again  after the 2015 loan, and 
he must take responsibility  for this. But while this was Mr Ms first consolidation loan in his 
own name, it appears as though Mr Ms wife was provided with a loan in 2013. And some of 
the funds, were used  to clear the joint overdraft  and Mr Ms existing credit card debt.  So its 
clear that this wasnt the first consolidation loan Mr Ms household had been provided with, 
or the first time Mr M had repaid what he owed  with further borrowing. 
Loan 1, was the second time Lloyds was consolidating  existing debts for Mr Ms household 
and Lloyds was again lending to clear balances on the same  accounts that had been  
consolidated 2 years earlier.  So, in my view, Lloyds ought to have been on notice that Mr M 
Ref: DRN07753275might have gone on to use his overdraft and his credit card in the way he did after the 2015 
loan. After all Mr M returned to Lloyds in 2015, owing more than he did in 2013 despite his 
household having been provided with funds,  in order to reduce  and clear  what  he owed. Id 
also add that even though  Lloyds is saying it provided the 2015  loan to help Mr M out of a 
difficult situation, I cant see that it took any action to reduce the overdraft limit or credit card 
limit in 2015 either. And all of this was done  at a time when it also advanced  additional 
funds, over and above the amount to be consolidated, when providing this loan. 
Furthermore, if I take Lloyds argument  to its logical conclusion, I see it as being even if 
these further advances of credit  were unsustainable,  it still wasnt  unfair to lend because this 
credit was less unaffordable then Mr Ms existing credit. And as this allowed Mr M to delay 
dealing with his difficulties he, in any event, didnt lose out as a result  of having been  
provided with these loans and his credit card limit increase. I have concerns with this 
argument for a number  of reasons.
Firstly, I think that Lloyds  is presenting  a false dichotomy here as it somehow suggesting that 
Mr M was faced  with choosing between paying his existing creditors  an unaffordable  
amount, or paying Lloyds perhaps  less unaffordable amounts.  But this ignores the fact that 
Mr M could  have attempted  to reach arrangements  with his existing creditors  to repay what 
he owed  after all his existing  creditors  (including  Lloyds itself which  appears  to have been 
owed a significant amount) owed a regulatory obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration in the event that he was struggling to repay what  he already owed. Im not 
suggesting that Lloyds was required to provide  Mr M with debt advice in relation to his 
existing debts. What  Im saying here is that Mr Ms choice  wasnt as binary as Lloyds  
appears to be suggesting.  And that it doesnt  automatically follow  that Mr M wont have lost 
out simply because his loans might  have had lower APRs than his existing debts. 
Secondly, Lloyds  advanced Mr M additional  funds  over and above  what he owed elsewhere. 
So while it might have  reduced his monthly  payment (once  again  perhaps to a less 
unaffordable payment),  it was nonetheless  increasing Mr Ms overall indebtedness.  These  
were Mr Ms second and third consolidation  loans and the amount he owed was increasing. 
Equally, it ought  to have been apparent that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing  in 
circumstances where  he (and the household) was only repaying  what he owed by borrowing 
further. Indeed  the June 2018  credit card limit increase to £5,000 was provided in 
circumstances where  Lloyds ought to have realised that Mr M had only been  able to make 
any inroads into his revolving credit  balances as a result of consolidation  loans. And this in 
itself is highlighted  as unsustainable within the regulator rules. I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to argue about Mr Ms responsibilities, while  also failing to 
acknowledge its shortcomings in Mr Ms adoption of repayment strategy where he was 
continually borrowing to repay.
Finally, Im also concerned at Lloyds argument that advancing the credit it did meant that it   
prevented Mr M experiencing difficulties sooner. In my view,  it was clear that Mr M was 
already struggling  to repay what he owed in 2015. And he ended  up paying significant  
amounts of interest  for the privilege of Lloyds  allowing him to delay dealing with what had 
already become an unsustainable debt. Lloyds actions in continuing to provide further funds, 
while ignoring the evidence suggesting  he couldnt  afford to repay,  worsened Mr Ms 
problem rather than helped him. And I dont think that this was fair and reasonable.
Given all of Lloyds obligations  and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account the 
circumstances and everything Ive covered in this section, I find that Lloyds ought fairly  and 
Ref: DRN07753276reasonably to have  realised it was increasing  Mr Ms indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt  have  provided  him with the June 
2015 and August 2016 loans (as well as the November 2017 one) and the credit  card limit 
increase in June  2018.
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Lloyds acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr M in some  other  way.
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
one of this decision, I find that:
Lloyds didnt  complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks on Mr M to satisfy itself 
that he was able to sustainably  repay loans 1 and 2 and the credit limit increase on 
his credit  card in June  2018;
Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably  to have realised that loans 1 and 2 (as well as 
loan 3) and the credit limit increase on his credit  card in June 2018 were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr M and was unfairly and excessively  
increasing his overall indebtedness;  
Lloyds didnt  also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way.
The above  findings leave me reaching  the overall conclusion that Lloyds unfairly and 
unreasonably provided  Mr M with loans in June 2015 and August  2016 (as well as 
November 2017) and a credit card limit increase  to £5,000.00 in June 2018.
Did Mr M lose out as a result of Lloyds  shortcomings?
Mr M has paid and is being expected to pay additional interest and charges as a result of 
being unfairly provided with the credit  he shouldnt have been  provided with. Ive considered  
Lloyds argument  that Mr M had other  more expensive credit and the credit advanced did at 
least delay any difficulties.  But Ive already  explained that I dont think this is automatically 
the case, as its entirely possible that Mr M would  have  reached arrangements to repay  what  
he owed his existing  creditors. 
And its perfectly possible these arrangements wouldnt have accrued further interest.  In 
effect Lloyds providing Mr M with the additional loans and credit card borrowing it shouldnt 
have meant  that he had to pay Lloyds additional  interest for the privilege of it allowing him to 
delay dealing with what, in my view, had already become an unsustainable debt position. 
Mr M had to pay this additional  interest at a time when he was already finding it difficult  to 
repay what he owed. So Im satisfied that Mr M has lost out because of what  Lloyds did 
wrong and Lloyds needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mr M
Ive given a lot of careful thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case. 
Ref: DRN07753277Ive already explained that Mr Ms real loss here is the interest  that Lloyds added to his loans 
and his credit card account as a result  of the credit  limit increase.  So Im satisfied that Lloyds  
needs to take the steps Ive set out below  to put things right.
Mr Ms loans
Im satisfied that Lloyds  should refund the interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 1 and 2. 
As loan 1 was only repaid with funds  from loan 2 and loan 2 was only repaid with funds from 
loan 3, Im satisfied Mr M was always in a position  where he owed  Lloyds money. So I dont  
think that Mr M was ever deprived  of money  on these loans and Lloyds doesnt need to add 
interest to any refund  due on loans 1 and 2. This refund can then be used to reduce what    
Mr M owes on loan 3. 
Should the interest refunds  from the all the loans  (including loan 3 which  Lloyds has agreed 
to refund) as well as Mr Ms payments be enough to clear the outstanding  balance on loan 3 
then any extra should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr M. Interest at 8% 
simple per annum should be added to any refunded payments,  if there are any, from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement.
   
Ordinarily, where I find that a lender unfairly  provided a borrower with loans, Id tell the 
lender to remove any adverse information recorded about that loan from the borrowers  
credit file. However, Im mindful of the circumstances of this case  and in particular my 
reasons for upholding the complaint. Ive upheld Mr Ms complaint on the basis  that his 
existing debts, at the time of these applications, already appear to have been unsustainable 
and that Lloyds providing him with potentially  less unaffordable credit  didnt take into account 
that Mr M may have  reached arrangements with his existing creditors. And that Lloyds 
unfairly providing Mr M with these  loans simply delayed him dealing  with the consequences 
of his unsustainable debt. 
This is the reason why I think Lloyds should refund the interest it added to loans 1 and 2 as 
well as remove the interest it added to the loan 3 and deduct this from what  Mr M now owes. 
That said,  it would be unreasonable for me to reach  this finding in relation  to the balance 
owed, but depart from it in terms of Mr Ms credit  file going forward.  I think that removing  
adverse information  in circumstances  where  it was more likely than not Lloyds would have 
recorded this on another  product would place Mr M in a more advantageous position.  
In my view, this would  be counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Ms best interests, or 
those of any potential  lender.  So having carefully thought  about  everything, including  
everything Mr M has told us, Im not asking Lloyds to amend Mr Ms credit  file to remove  any 
adverse information  as result of these loans.       
Mr Ms credit card
Mr Ms credit limit shouldnt have been increased  in June 2018. So Lloyds should  rework    
Mr Ms credit card account  to ensure  that any interest, fees and charges added  as a result of 
the credit  limit increase should  be removed.  This means that Mr Ms account should be 
reworked so that interest is only ever charged on the first £850 of any balance.  
All of this means  that Im intending to tell Lloyds to do the following to put things right.
Refund all interest  fees and charges  Mr M paid as a result of the June 2015 and 
August 2016 loans  (loans 1 and 2);
Ref: DRN07753278Removing  all interest, fees and charges applied to the November 2017 loan (loan 3) 
from the outset. The refunded  interest,  fees and charges for loans 1 and 2 together 
with the payments Mr M made  should  be deducted from the new starting balance  
the £15,000.00 originally lent. Lloyds should treat any payments made should the 
new starting balance  be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr M;
Adding interest at 8% per year simple  on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement;
If an outstanding  balance remains on loan 3 once these adjustments have  been  
made, Lloyds should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment  plan for this.
Rework Mr Ms credit card account  to ensure that from June 2018 onwards interest is 
only charged on the first £850.00  outstanding to reflect the fact that no credit limit 
increases should have  been  provided from then. All late payment and over limit fees 
should also be removed;
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result  of his 
credit card limit being increased over £850.  
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give     
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons  explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Lloyds Bank  Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0775327