K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that esure Insurance Limited  didnt offer her a fair value when she claimed 
on her motor insurance after her car was written  off following an accident.
background
Mrs W insured  her car with esure.  Unfortunately she was in an accident  and her car was 
damaged so she made a claim on her insurance.  esure inspected  the car and decided that 
the damage would  cost more to repair than the car was worth,  so it was written off. 
esure offered Mrs W £966 in settlement of her claim. Mrs W wasnt  happy  with that 
valuation. She thought  her car was worth around £1,600. Our investigator thought esures 
valuation was fair, so Mrs W asked for an ombudsman  to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws policy says that if the car is damaged esure can repair  it or offer her the market 
value of the car as a cash settlement. In this case the costs  of the repair  were  substantially 
more than it was worth   whether esure or Mrs Ws figure is used  and so it was fair for 
esure to decide  it was beyond economic repair and write it off. The issue in this case is 
whether the cash  settlement it has offered instead represents a fair value.
Valuation of a car isnt a precise science  especially when doing so based on what  the 
value would have  been before the accident rather than its current  condition. The policy  terms 
say that esure will pay the market  value based  on the condition of the car before the 
accident. They say the market value  will be assessed taking into account factors like the 
age, mileage and condition of the car and taking into account the leading industry valuation 
guides. I think thats a fair approach to valuing it, as the industry guides are based  on a 
range of data from actual  sales   not advertised prices  and therefore are a reliable  method  
of estimating value.
In this case, one of the three guides  was rather different  to the other two, which  were much  
closer together.  So esure took the average  value of the two closer estimates as its starting 
point. I think that was fair. This led to a figure  of £1,788  which is not far off the valuation 
Mrs W was expecting. In fact, it was a little higher.
However, esure then reduced the value  to account for what it said was significant  pre-
accident damage, as well as the poor condition of the car generally.
Ive looked at the photographic evidence and I agree the car was in poor condition, even 
apart from the damage caused by the accident.  The interior  was dirty  and not just in need 
of a clean, but extensively  stained. There was damage to the exterior paintwork and trim and 
one of the bumpers, as well as other issues.
Having considered this, I think  it goes well beyond the normal  fair wear  and tear to be 
expected of a car this age. The valuation guides are based on a car in good condition   
which this one wasnt. 
Ref: DRN00789462esure estimated the cost of repairs  to bring the car up to a reasonable condition in line with 
its age and mileage.  It then deducted  half the cost of those repairs from the starting  estimate 
of £1,788 to reach the final figure of £966.  
I think esure acted fairly in reaching the final value this way. Mrs Ws insurance doesnt  pay 
the purchase price  of the car, or what it would  cost her to buy an equivalent replacement on 
the open market.  Instead, it pays the value  of her car as it was before the accident. That 
includes allowances for its age and mileage  but also its condition and state of repair.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, I think that esure offered Mrs W a fair settlement 
for her car, based on its value before the accident,  and so I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0078946