K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that London  General Insurance Company Limited (LG) wont  accept her 
claim under her vacuum  cleaner repair insurance and about LGs service.  My references to 
LG include its agents.
Mrs L will note that she is the sole complainant  for my decision as she is the sole 
policyholder. Her husband, who Ill refer to as Mr L, represents her in her complaint  to us.
background
When Mrs Ls vacuum cleaner stopped working  properly  Mr L called  the manufacturer who 
said the problem  was probably with the filter. Mr L called LG and says he was told the part 
would be covered but LG needed  to examine  the cleaner.
LGs repairers called Mr L to arrange  collection and agreed it would send packaging  for the 
cleaner. The packaging was sent to the wrong  address  initially  as although Mr L told LG 
about their new address  LG didnt update its records.
When LG inspected the cleaner it wouldnt accept the repair  claim. The policy didnt  cover:
 items replaceable  by you. This includes,  but isn't limited to, fuses,  batteries,  and other 
consumable items. 
LG said the filter was easily  removable  and didnt require an engineers assistance.
Mrs L complained, through Mr L, and he was told he would receive  a call back  from a team  
manager within the next 48 hours which didnt happen. About five days  later he spoke to 
someone else at LG who said it would respond  to his complaint in writing (which  happened) 
and he would get a call by close of business that day (which  didnt happen).  
LG accepted it gave poor service and offered £35 compensation for Mrs Ls distress and 
inconvenience. It said it gave Mr L the wrong impression about cover for the filter when he 
reported the fault but he was unsure the filter was the issue.  It should have spoken to Mrs L, 
as the policyholder, to amend the address details when Mr L told it the new address. It 
thought the team manager had tried to call Mr L but as he couldnt get through there was no 
recording for it to definitely confirm.  LG continued  to decline the claim.
Mrs L complained to us. She said the filter isnt detachable and is part of an electrical 
component attached to the cleaner which has to be removed as a whole. She sent us photos 
of the item. She detailed why she thought LGs level of service was appalling,  as 
summarised above, and it hadnt sent her a policy booklet. She said she was without the use 
of the vacuum  cleaner for over a month,  the new part cost £52.50  and she wanted £150 
compensation.
Our investigator thought LG had fairly declined the claim and its £35 compensation offer was 
reasonable.
Mrs L doesnt agree and wants  an ombudsmans decision. She said: the fault was with a 
non-detachable filter which couldnt be bought separately;  LG told Mr L the filter repair was 
covered and without  that confirmation she wouldnt have sent LG the cleaner; she would 
now accept £75 compensation.  LG didnt agree to pay £75.
Ref: DRN02720582my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
LGs records show its repairer told it the only problem with the vacuum cleaner was that the 
post filter which attaches to the handle  needed to be replaced which didnt require  an 
engineer. The repairer also said the part wasnt designed  to last the lifetime of the machine  
so was a consumable.
LG can reasonably rely on its expert's evidence to say the above policy exclusion applies. It 
can fairly decline the repair claim.
When Mr L told LG the problem may be the filter it would  have  been  reasonable for LG to 
have told him the part wasn't  covered. I understand why Mrs L is annoyed it didnt. But even 
if LG had said the part was excluded I think Mrs L would have still sent the cleaner to LG for 
inspection as she wasnt, and couldnt be, certain  the filter was the problem. The 
manufacturer had only given  a probable diagnosis over the phone  and the cleaner needed to 
be inspected by LG to check the actual  problem. Also, even  if Mrs L had the policy booklet 
which detailed the exclusion  I think the situation would still have happened as the cleaner  
needed to be sent to LG for full diagnosis.
LG accepts it gave  Mrs L poor service.  I think the service was poor rather  than appalling as 
Mrs L suggests. The poor service centres  on miscommunication which has caused  Mrs L 
upset and inconvenience. Ive also taken into account the effect of Mr L's upset and 
inconvenience on Mrs L, as I cant award  Mr L compensation direct  as he isnt the 
policyholder. Compensation is appropriate  but overall the £35 compensation LG offered is a 
reasonable amount.
Mrs L says she hasnt  received the £35 from LG so if she wishes  to accept  the offer she 
should contact  it direct.
Ref: DRN02720583my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0272058