K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs  treatment  of his sole trader business  
account, saying  it was inappropriate,  following fraudulent funds being received  into that 
account. Hes seeking more compensation from Barclays  than its already  offered to pay 
him, in recognition  of the treatment being  flawed, and also for it having filed a negative 
marker with cifas about use of the account.
Mr K has been represented  by solicitors since bringing his complaint here.  
background
On 4 January  2018, £2,000 was transferred into Mr K's account and then immediately 
withdrawn. Barclays was contacted that day by the remitter of the funds who also banked  
with Barclays and said that the receipt  of the funds was fraudulent.  Barclays blocked the 
account before trying  to contact Mr K to discuss the activity on the account.
On the same  day, £500 and £250  was also withdrawn from Mr K's account.  He eventually 
told Barclays that he hadn't authorised  these  transactions.  Barclays hadnt been  able to 
speak with Mr K by 27 February,  so it decided to close the account. It also filed a marker 
with cifas noting the account had been misused. 
Mr K says that Barclays treatment of the account  and the filing of the cifas marker caused  
him distress and inconvenience  and he specifically says that it affected his ability  to get 
work. He also asked to be refunded the £750  that was taken  from his account as well as 
£419.02 that was the balance on his account retained by Barclays  as fraudulent  funds.
Barclays did attempt to contact Mr K a few times  between 18 January and 8 February, 
unsuccessfully, before Mr K called  the bank himself  on 8 February. But he didnt pass 
Barclays' security checks and it therefore  asked him to go into a branch to discuss the 
matter. As this hadnt happened by 27 February, Barclays closed  the account and filed the 
marker with cifas. 
Mr K went  into branch again on 21 June after he tried to open a new account with another  
bank and was declined. Barclays explained what had happened  and provided  Mr K with 
copy statements. Mr K initiated a complaint, after approaching this Service,  which  was 
passed to Barclays  in October. Barclays rejected all elements of Mr Ks concerns.  
I dont need to go into great detail as to the investigation carried out by our investigator,  or 
what representations were made by him and the parties to this dispute,  before a basis for the 
disputes settlement  was proposed. I will simply record  that Barclays has offered to (and our 
investigator endorsed  this offer):
remove the marker filed with cifas on the basis that it now accepts that Mr K didnt 
misuse the account;
refund  to Mr K the £250 and £500  withdrawals on the basis that he didnt authorise them 
to be made;
pay Mr K the £419.02 that was removed from his account on the basis that was 
incorrectly identified as the remainder of the fraudulent funds  the account received;
pay simple  interest at the rate of 8% on each of the above  three  amounts from the date 
that the funds  left the account  until the date that each sum is paid to Mr K; and
Ref: DRN02610332pay £600 compensation to Mr K for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mr K 
throughout this whole affair (the offer of this compensation  was subsequently increased 
to £700 after Barclays wasnt  able to remove the filed cifas marker as speedily as it 
indicated it would).  
Mr K declined this offer of settlement and subsequently declined the revised  offer with the 
slightly increased amount  of £700  compensation. In short,  Mr K asked for compensation for 
the loss of earnings he suffered as a result of the banks actions. But the investigator  wasnt  
provided evidence  of any specific, lost work opportunities, just information in respect  of tax 
returns which showed that Mr K enjoyed less turnover  during the financial year 2018/19 than 
he did during the comparative period of 2017/18.    
The investigator thought this didnt  provide  sufficiently persuasive evidence that his reduced  
income in the later year was specifically as a result of the banks actions, and particularly 
because Mr K couldnt get a replacement bank account for the one that Barclays  closed. He 
said the reduced value of his work  might  have arisen from any number of reasons, for 
instance, there simply being less work  available.
He also noted  Mr K earned more in 2017/18  than he had in 2016/17 and he concluded  it was 
entirely possible that 2017/18  was an anomaly, a year when Mr K was able to get more work  
than he had previously  or subsequently, regardless of the situation with his bank account. 
In short,  the investigator  didnt  think there were any identifiable financial losses that Barclays  
should compensate  Mr K for, arising  from the banks  actions. In reply,  Mr K has asked that 
his complaint be reviewed  by an ombudsman on the basis  that he should be entitled to a 
greater level of compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that one of the concerns expressed by Mr Ks solicitors was that, even as the 
investigator was endorsing the offer of £600 compensation made by the bank for its actions, 
including for incorrectly  filing the cifas marker and only later agreeing  to remove it, the 
marker had still to be removed and was still affecting  Mr K.
Of course,  Ill take into account the actions of the bank in their entirety - and the impact of 
those actions on Mr K, where they were flawed, also in their entirety - when I determine  what 
compensation the bank ought to pay to Mr K, in settlement  of this whole complaint.
I do note though that Mr Ks solicitors have also  in respect of the compensation to be paid 
to Mr K  said that £600 (and even £700) is inadequate for his loss of earnings,  hardship, 
and cost of representation. Concern was repeated  about the bank's letters  to Mr Ks old 
address and phone calls to an invalid mobile number, when they were trying to contact  him. 
And it has also said  in respect  of the bank  not removing the cifas filing promptly  that Mr K 
had two further, wasted visits to banks to open a new account which  were  never  going  to be 
successful and which were always going  to be frustrating and difficult given  his difficulty with 
speaking English.  
Mr K, also believes he informed  the bank of his card being  retained when he tried to use it as 
early as 5 January, although in his own chronology,  he admits  that he had no valid 
Ref: DRN02610333identification to evidence he was Mr K so there  was inevitably  a limit to how much the bank 
could assist Mr K at that time. Barclays also has no record of that meeting.
But even if that was the case, Barclays didnt seek to act on its blocking of the account  until 
later in January.  That said, although  theres  no doubt the bank ended up acting quite  
inefficiently in its efforts to contact Mr K in the aftermath of the fraudulent payment being 
made to the account  it does acknowledge that its administration of Mr Ks contact  address  
and phone number  was flawed  its offered significant compensation for its poor 
administration. 
And it does  remain that Mr K did not promptly pursue  any concerns he may have had, given  
the account was blocked  on 4 January and he says his card was retained  the next day. He 
only ever formalises a complaint in October 2018. Mr Ks actions dont excuse the slowness 
of what Barclays did, or that it did so with a poor standard of administration,  but when 
deciding what level of compensation Mr K ought to be entitled to, I cant  disregard his 
significant failure to mitigate harm to himself  by taking so many months to sort things out.
Most recently, Mr Ks solicitor has written that:
a recent  conversation between Mr K and Barclays,  in branch, facilitated by his solicitor, 
uncovered what is suggested to be the administrative failings  that led to Barclays using  
an incorrect address and phone number to contact him. And, despite  the cifas filing 
having been removed, Barclays still wasnt prepared to offer a new account;
I should make an award taking  into account  the banks breach of its contractual 
obligations, primarily its unjustified  withdrawal of banking facilities and actions that 
prevented Mr K obtaining banking facilities elsewhere. I accept that the solicitors have 
set that out in greater detail and asserted that their claim is supported with legal 
principles; and
his legal costs  should be covered by Barclays as he wasnt  able to bring any complaint 
forward himself  due to him being,  predominantly,  non-English speaking.    
Ive carefully thought  about everything thats been said and the evidence  presented.  First, 
Im afraid that I can see no basis for Mr K needing legal representation in taking this matter 
forward. The complaint  is relatively straightforward in nature.  The bank responded to 
allegations made about use of his account  in a routine manner, blocking the account, 
seeking to discuss  the account activity with their customer, closing the account and filing a 
cifas marker in the absence of an explanation about  the account activity.
Obviously, that was made more difficult for Mr K to deal with because  of Barclays 
administrative failings and also, understandably, because of language difficulties. But that 
would only have required Mr K to seek translation  assistance and once the complaint was 
referred here, we provide  such  support. So, I cant accept that the bank should be required  
to cover Mr Ks legal costs Im afraid.   
As regards  the issue of the bank acting  incorrectly in closing the account, I dont agree that 
this was the case. Barclays  was entitled  to cease its relationship with Mr K. The account had 
received fraudulent funds and it was entitled look to close  the account. Even if Mr K had 
promptly provided an explanation about  his innocence in respect of the funds being 
received, Barclays was entitled to be sufficiently concerned about the fact theyd been 
received that it neednt  have been  obligated to allow the account to continue  in existence. 
Ref: DRN02610334Whether the bank ought to have offered new banking facilities  is a separate matter  but, 
predominantly, thats a commercial judgement  that I would be most unlikely to interfere with. 
In this matter, given the activity that occurred  on Mr Ks account, and given that Mr K hadnt 
given reassurance to the bank about  the circumstances in which  his account  received the 
fraudulent funds, even  taking account  of the bank having used outdated  communication 
details, I cant fairly  and reasonably say that the bank is acting inappropriately in declining Mr 
K further  banking facilities.   
Of course the bank  should have done  things better, and this would have meant  that the cifas 
marker wouldnt have  been filed for so long, and the bank should pay compensation for that. 
But its offering to do so and I need to decide  whether the current  offer its made, £700, is 
adequate. Having taken into account  the banks administrative failings, Mr Ks failure to 
mitigate, for himself, the impact of those failings, the difficulties hes had with not having an 
account and getting a new one, and whats recently  been said about the practical difficulties 
of his dealings  with the bank, I am minded to say that £700 is appropriate compensations.
I agree  with the investigator in saying  that it hasnt been adequately established that the 
banks actions have  led to Mr K suffering a lack of earnings. And Im satisfied that £700 is 
appropriate compensation here given the basis on which Im required  to make money 
awards in determination of a complaint.
In light of all Ive said I agree with the investigator  in how he set what appropriate settlement 
of this complaint  should look like. In setting  out my final decision,  Ill detail  all that the bank 
should pay to resolve  this complaint but if any element of that award  has already been paid 
then the bank need not pay it again.
my final decision
In full and final settlement  of this complaint, Barclays Bank  UK PLC must pay to Mr K  if it 
hasnt already done so:
£250, £500 and £419.02;
interest, calculated at 8% simple  per annum, on each separate  amount above,  calculated 
from the date it should  have been paid to Mr K, until the date it is paid; and
£700 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0261033