K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Zenith Insurance plc dealt with a claim he made under 
his car insurance policy. 
All references to Zenith in my decision  include  its agents. 
background
Mr P was involved  in an incident  in December  2018 and he reported  it to his insurer,  Zenith. 
Zenith said that from what Mr P said,  his claim would be dealt  with as a total  loss. 
Mr P didnt agree. He believed the damage  to his car was cosmetic. He provided an estimate 
from a garage.  The estimate was for over £7,600. Mr P wanted  Zenith  to pay him a cash  in 
lieu (CIL) settlement for the repairs. 
Zenith agreed to pay Mr P a CIL payment  but for a lower amount than the estimate Mr P 
provided. It applied  its approved repairer (AR) rates to the estimate and on this basis  offered 
Mr P a CIL payment of £5,088.86. It reimbursed Mr P for the costs he paid to obtain his own 
estimate. This was £35. It reimbursed Mr P for the VAT he paid when he had the repairs 
carried out. The repair costs came to £3,702.64.
Mr P complained to Zenith. He said it had;
failed to deal with information he sent them and failed to call him back  when 
agreed
decided to write off his car before looking at it 
provided a misleading estimate  
paid a cash in lieu (CIL)  payment  which was too low and;
offered a market  value  settlement  which was too low.
Zenith accepted  it had provided a poor service and for this it paid Mr P compensation of 
£100. But it said it had followed its claim process correctly. It said from the initial call it was 
likely that Mr Ps car might  be a total loss  but an engineer  would make  the final decision. It 
gave a valuation  of £8,373 for Mr Ps car. It explained that the estimate to repair Mr Ps car  
on their AR rates  was £5,088.86.
Our investigator thought Zenith had acted reasonably. He asked Zenith why it had sent an 
estimate to Mr P using  the name of the garage  he obtained an estimate from. Zenith 
accepted it could have removed the garages  name from the estimate  it sent to Mr P. The 
estimate it sent was the adjusted estimate  after its engineer applied the AR rates. 
Mr P didnt agree. He says 
He asked Zenith to give him the name of an AR three times  in order to take his 
car there  for an estimate. But Zenith didnt provide one.
The estimate Zenith provided was fabricated on headed paper by the garage  and 
is paramount to fraud.
He was advised by the engineer to take the CIL offer.  He needed to get the car 
repaired as he used  it for work.
He hasnt been able to repair the car to the same condition as it was before the 
incident for the CIL amount and so his car has been devalued.
Ref: DRN02568242So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute that Zenith provided at times a poor service to Mr P. I think  it didnt  reply  
to all of his requests   or within the timescales it gave him  and he had to chase it for 
updates. I also think some of the delay was inevitably  due to the fact that Mr P didnt agree 
with the sums Zenith quoted for the market value and CIL payment. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  a valuation. We look at whether an insurer 
reached is valuation  reasonably and in line with the policy. Zeniths  policy says the most it 
will pay in the event  of a total loss is the market  value. This valuation  is based on the retail  
transacted average for a similar car to Mr Ps. Zenith based its sum on likely selling prices in 
the month of loss. 
We find the main motor trade guides are a reliable way of deciding  a valuation as they are 
based on likely selling  prices. Adverts tend to vary widely and tend to be higher so that the 
seller has a margin to negotiate a final lower  selling price.
I understand Mr P believes the valuation Zenith reached for his car was based on trade  
prices. But we checked the guides  based on the retail transacted  values. This is the price 
Mr P - or anyone  - might pay for a similar  car to his at a retail garage.  
As the valuation Zenith reached  of £8,373 was more than the average of the guides we 
checked, I think it decided  a valuation in a fair way and in line with Mr Ps policy.
Zeniths engineer  looked at the estimate  provided  by a garage  Mr P said he believed  to be 
an AR. I agree that when Zenith sent the engineers adjusted  estimate  to Mr P, it should  
have removed the details of the garage. This was misleading and led Mr P to query it with 
the garage  which in turn queried it with Zenith. 
However, I dont think it changes the outcome.  Zenith applied the rates it would pay for the 
repairs if one of its ARs were to carry them out. The garage Mr P obtained his estimate  from 
used to be an AR. So the estimate Mr P obtained wasnt  on AR rates. I understand Mr P 
didnt agree with the engineer as to some of the repair  methods Zenith intended to use, 
which was partly why the estimate was lower. But Zenith was entitled  to decide to repair  
Mr Ps car in line with the policy or pay a total loss settlement for it. 
Mr P didnt accept the market value Zenith  gave  for his car. And I appreciate  that he didnt 
agree with the amount  of the CIL payment.  But overall I think  Zenith  dealt with Mr Ps claim 
reasonably. I think its done  enough to put things right by reimbursing Mr P for the £35 cost 
of the estimate  he obtained  and its fairly compensated Mr P for its poor service.  The CIL 
payment exceeded  the amount Mr P paid to repair  his car. 
Mr P says his car hasnt been repaired to the condition it was in before the incident. But I 
think Zeniths decision to settle  Mr Ps claim by paying him a CIL payment of £5,088.86 was 
reasonable as this is the amount it would have otherwise  paid to repair  his car under the 
Ref: DRN02568243claim  and is more than Mr P has paid towards  repairs. So I dont think it needs to do any 
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0256824