K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) is unfairly and unreasonably refusing to 
pay his entire claim under  a travel insurance  policy. He wants his entire claim paid.
background
Mr B had a travel  insurance  policy with UKI. He arranged and paid £1780  for the use of a 
holiday home which could  accommodate 12 people for a family trip. Mr B said only ten 
others were  coming as the trip was a present for his partner. 12 people were  stated  on the 
booking form, but Mr B said this was a rough estimate to help the housekeepers at the 
property. 
Unfortunately, due to the ill-health of a relative caused by sepsis, the trip didnt happen and 
Mr B claimed for the cost of the rental under the travel insurance policy. He said that UKI 
didnt deal fairly or reasonably with his claim, mislaid personal information  (later found) and 
only paid 1/12th of the claim minus  the £50 excess  fee.
Mr B complained to UKI, and explained  that in any event 12 people were never booked  to 
stay in the property  and hed paid for everything. UKI said that it was initially  told only Mr B 
and his partner  were travelling, and Mr B was told that the policy  only covered his costs, not 
those of uninsured  persons, including his partner. UKI said that the policys  terms and 
conditions excluded the unused expenses of those not insured under  the policy, regardless 
of who paid for the booking. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B complained to us. The investigators view was that UKI wasnt  at fault. The policys  
terms and conditions in his view clearly said that regardless of who paid, only the unused 
share of those insured under the policy would be paid, and this had been confirmed to Mr B 
when he first contacted  UKI about  the situation.  The investigator also said that it wasnt 
unfair or unreasonable for UKI to only pay 1/12th of the costs as the booking form said 12 
people were staying,  not 11.
Mr B disagreed. He said that it wasnt fair only part of his losses  were covered by the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The principle  of insurance is often described as ensuring that the insured doesnt  suffer  a 
loss. But its also important to be clear about exactly what  the insurer is covering under the 
terms and conditions of the policy  the insurer is entitled to limit the cover and manage its 
risk. If it has excluded  this situation  clearly,  generally this service  wouldnt interfere as its a 
matter for the insurers commercial judgement  what it is willing to cover.
In Mr Bs case, the policy does set out a number of conditions for a cancellation claim to be 
successful. One says:
Ref: DRN00892102We will only consider  the unused expenses of a person who is insured under this policy.  For 
example, if you are travelling with someone  who is not insured under this policy, we only pay 
your proportion of costs not theirs,  regardless of who has paid for the booking. 
This was also confirmed to Mr B when he first contacted UKI about the situation  it doesnt 
matter who paid for the holiday, the policy only covers Mr Bs unused share of the trip. As 
this was set out clearly  within  the policy, I cant say that its unfair  or unreasonable  for UKI to 
rely upon the term and only pay Mr Bs share.
What is Mr Bs share?  Initially Mr B told UKI the trip was for him and his partner in a call to 
which Ive listened.  The information he submitted to UKI said 12 people  were going on the 
trip. While Mr B says that this was a rough estimate for housekeeping purposes, based  on 
the evidence UKI has received, I cant say that its position that only 1/12th should  be paid to 
Mr B, minus  the excess  fee, is unfair  or unreasonable. Its a reasonable conclusion to draw.
Mr B complains about the handling of his claim generally. But it appears from the evidence 
available to me that there were  difficulties in him submitting the evidence as the submit 
button wasnt pressed.  And in any event, the information wasnt  lost and the claim was 
considered within a reasonable timescale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
6 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0089210