K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on his behalf  by a claims management 
company.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ss credit  card account when he applied for the card online. The policy  covered Mr S for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S disagreed  
saying, in summary, that:
He doesnt believe he applied  for the PPI. In its response to his complaint, 
Canada Square  agreed that he wasnt aware  that the policy  had been  added to his 
account.
He wouldve received  pay from his employer if he couldnt  work due to sickness or an 
accident. And he had enough  savings to repay his credit  card,  so he didnt need the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
As part of the online application  process, there was a separate  section headed, Do you 
want Card Repayment  Protection? There were clear  options to accept or decline PPI. 
Canada Squares  records from the time show that Mr S ticked  the Yes box to confirm  
that he wanted to protect my repayments. So, overall,  I think  Canada Square  made  
Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Mr S says he wasnt aware he had PPI. And I can understand why he cant remember 
now that he applied for it as it took place so long ago. I think  he may have forgotten  that 
he had it, but this doesnt  mean he didnt know hed applied  for it at the time.
He also says Canada  Square  accepted that he wasnt aware he had PPI and Ive 
considered this carefully.  In its response to Mr Ss complaint,  Canada Square listed his 
main allegations  including,  you were  not aware that the policy had been applied to your 
account. I cant see that Canada  Square accepted this allegation. It said,  Whilst we do 
not accept all of your allegations we do acknowledge that there may have been flaws in 
our sales process . So I dont think Canada  Square  accepted Mr S was unaware of the 
PPI. 
Ref: DRN08328292Mr S provided  evidence to show that he wouldve received at least three months full pay 
from his employer if he couldnt  work due to sickness or an accident. And he estimates 
he wouldve had between £5,000 and £10,000  in savings. So he probably  wouldve 
been able to cover  his credit  card repayments  for around  seven  months. The policy  
wouldve covered  his monthly  repayments on the card (10% of the outstanding balance) 
for up to 12 months  in the event of a successful claim. So I find it couldve been a useful 
benefit for Mr S in addition to his existing  arrangements. In any event, Canada Square  
didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr S chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  wanted  this 
type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr S would have  made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  he would still 
have taken out the policy.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr S about that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square  has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0832829