K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003.
I sent Mr and Mrs W and Santander my provisional decision on 14 March  2019 explaining 
why I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I said that before I made my final 
decision Id look at anything else anyone wanted to give me, so long as I got it before 
14 April 2019.
I didnt receive any further comments in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my provisional decision. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because:
Santander has told us that it recommended the MPPI, and I can see from Santander  
paperwork that the MPPI covered  just Mr W, and not Mrs W also. This means that 
Santander had to check that the MPPI was right for Mr W  it should not have 
recommended the cover if it wasnt right for Mr W.
Im not persuaded that the MPPI was right for Mr W. This is because Mr W has said he 
was entitled to sick pay from his employer at 90% for two years. Mr W has sent us a 
document that sets out this level of sick pay (a copy of which Santander  has already 
seen). Ive also seen an internal Santander  note dated 7 October 2013 that appears to 
suggest that at that time Mr W was reviewing outgoings and decided  to cancel the policy  
because he had sick pay for two years. The document  Mr W has sent us isnt dated. And 
its possible Mr W wasnt entitled  to this level of sick pay when the policy  was sold to him 
in 2003. But the document Mr W has provided doesnt state  that the level of sick pay 
depends on length of service. So I dont  think the fact Mr W wouldve had a smaller length 
of service in 2003 would necessarily have meant he wasnt entitled to this level of sick 
pay in 2003. And I havent seen any other evidence that leads me to otherwise sufficiently 
doubt this. So, from the evidence, it seems  to me that Mr W likely had a very substantial 
sick pay entitlement at the time of sale, such that Santander  should not have 
recommended the policy without  pointing  out that it might not be suitable in these 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN09136192I dont think Mr and Mrs W wouldve bought  the policy if Santander had made  it clear  it 
wasnt right for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because  of what  Santander  did 
wrong.
Ive taken into account Santanders comments.  But for the reasons explained above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion. 
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.*
If Mr W made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Santander can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes Mr and Mrs W.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander  to take off tax from this interest.  Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to put things right by doing  
what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0913619