K822xComplaint
Mr R is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited, (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Mr R was contacted  by a company, Ill refer to them as S, that supplied and installed solar  
panel systems. Following  a meeting,  Mr R agreed  to enter into a contract  with S for it to 
supply and install a solar panel  system. To fund this Mr R also agreed to enter  into a 10 year 
fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner  Finance (BPF).
Mr R made  a claim under section 75 (s75)  of the CCA. He said that S had told him that the 
solar panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments would be more  
than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income  and savings from using the electricity 
generated by the solar panels  rather than buying  it from his energy provider. But that hadnt 
happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments  had been  much higher than any income 
and savings. Mr R also said that S had considerably  overestimated  the benefits that he 
would receive from the solar panel system.
BPF arranged for an independent inspection of Mr Rs solar  panels. The inspection 
highlighted that some of the solar panels  had been installed where there  was significant 
amounts of shade.  This was impacting  on the benefits being produced. BPF paid for the 
panels to be relocated and paid Mr R around £900  for the financial shortfall caused by the 
underperformance. It also paid him £50 for the trouble and upset caused. BPF also said that 
Mr R should contact it in a further 12 months  if the solar  panels were still underperforming.
Mr R contacted BPF as his panels  still werent performing in line with what  he had been  told. 
When he hadnt received a response from BPF, Mr R contacted  our service. Following our 
involvement BPF made  an offer of compensation of around £3,800. It had worked  out what it 
considered to be an estimate  of the potential  savings and income to Mr R from the panels  
over the 10 year term of the loan. It then reworked the loan so that he would pay no more 
than that over the 10 year term. This was in addition to the £900 it had already paid him.
As Mr R had already  paid off his loan with BPF,  the compensation would  be paid directly to 
him. It also offered to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Mr R didnt accept the offer.  In summary, he didnt think the offer was fair as he didnt believe 
it compensated him for the overall benefits that had been misrepresented to him. He also 
arranged for an independent report to be carried out on the solar panels. This highlighted 
that S hadnt installed a MyEnergy+, something that Mr R believed  S should have.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says that he was contacted by S and during  a sales meeting told that the solar panel 
system would be entirely self-financing. As BPF doesnt  dispute that the benefits  of the solar 
panels were misrepresented to him my decision will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN06466982The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking into account  the particular circumstances.
Mr R has said that it was the over-inflated returns that induced  him to enter into the contract. 
And that the offer put forward by BPF doesnt compensate  him for that loss of expectation.
Ive thought carefully on this point. I consider that fair compensation isnt to put the innocent 
party, in this case Mr R, in the position he wouldve been in had the representation been 
true. Instead, I think fair compensation is to put Mr R back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the misrepresentation hadnt  been  made  in the first place.
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  to allow  Mr R to rescind the loan 
agreement and for BPF to arrange  for the removals of the solar panel system.  However,  
here I dont  think that would be fair or proportionate. My view of Mr Rs complaint is that it 
isnt so much about the solar panels  themselves,  but that he was led to believe that they 
would be self-funding. Rather,  I think the fair outcome here is to put Mr R in a position  where  
the solar panel  system is self-funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr R to 
keep the solar panels, Im satisfied that he will likely benefit from lower  electricity bills and 
FIT payments going forward.
Ive carefully considered  the methodology BPF has submitted to this service to calculate the 
total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology is based on the actual  
performance and estimated future  performance of Mr Rs solar panel  system. 
BPF has outlined than when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Ss solar  
panels it will use a number of assumptions. These  include  using a self-consumption  rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr Rs panels that he is expected  to 
use, or self-consume,  rather  than buying it from his energy provider. 
Self-consumption is impacted by the amount of time that someone is in their home and able 
to self-consumer the electricity being generated by their solar  panel system. It is self-evident 
that determining  an exact figure over the term of the loan is difficult. My role is to determine  
fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and reasonable overall. And in cases  
of this nature that isnt an exact science.
Taking this into account Im satisfied that using  a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and 
reasonable in this case. Im of the view that this takes into account changing consumer 
occupancy habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panel  system.  Once  the loan has been  repaid, 
as it has in this case, Im satisfied that it is highly  likely that Mr R will continue to benefit from 
the system as a result of a reduction in his electricity bills because  of the electricity 
generated by the solar panel  system  and the FIT payments.
Ive also reviewed and considered the other assumptions used by BPF. These include 
electricity price inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price  index (RPI).  Im 
of the view that these  appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an 
example, the actual  RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed 
figure. In summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Ref: DRN06466983Ive considered that Mr Rs solar  panel system didnt have the MyEnergy+ installed and 
whether this means that BPF should  amend its offer of compensation to reflect  this.  
The offer of compensation from BPF is based on the actual performance of Mr Rs solar  
panel system and therefore doesnt take into account any estimated benefits from the 
MyEnergy+. I dont consider it to be fair or reasonable  for BPF to increase its offer of 
compensation for any potential benefits  Mr R may have received from the it as it wasnt  
installed.
So, whilst I accept that Mr R wouldve been disappointed  when  discovered  that the 
MyEnergy+ hadnt  been installed, BPFs offer hasnt disadvantaged him as it will still make 
the solar panel  system cost neutral over the original 10 year term of the loan as he had been  
led to believe.  Taking  this into account, Im satisfied  that the offer proposed  by BPF is fair in 
the particular circumstances  of this complaint. 
 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr R contacted  
BPF that his complaint  shouldve  been upheld. The fact that this didnt happen will have 
undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an award  of £100 to 
reflect this.   
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  should  
be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I require Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited to:
allow Mr R to keep the solar panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr R from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework the loan up to the point he settled it. Essentially this 
means updating the calculation already provided,
add 8% simple interest* a year to any overpayments made from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of the settlement, and;
pay Mr R £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr R how much it has taken 
off. It should  also give him a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs.  
Ref: DRN0646698