K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with issues theyve encountered when trying  to pay a cheque into 
their Lloyds Bank PLC account.
background
Mr J tried to pay a cheque into his and Mrs Js joint account on 18 February 2019.  The 
cheque was rejected  as there was no payee name  written,  so Lloyds could not be sure that 
Mr J was the correct intended recipient.
Mr J contacted Lloyds  about this. Lloyds  initially told him that it would return  the cheque.  But 
the cheque was not returned to Mr and Mrs J. A letter was instead sent to them with an 
image of the cheque   saying that they should get in touch with the person that issued the 
cheque to arrange a replacement.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to Lloyds about  this. They said they were  unhappy with the 
incorrect information provided and that Mrs J had made an unnecessary trip to their branch 
based on being told the cheque would be returned  and needed to be collected. 
Lloyds apologised  for giving them incorrect information and paid them £90, which credited 
their account  on 5 March  2019, for the inconvenience caused.  It reiterated that theyd  need  
to contact the person that issued the cheque to progress things. And it explained  that its 
normal procedure was that the cheque  would be retained for 30 days  and then destroyed.  
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs J complained to our service. They  said that they wanted  the 
original cheque returning or for Lloyds to honour  the value of the cheque.
An investigator considered the complaint but he didnt think it should be upheld. He felt that it 
wasnt unreasonable that Lloyds had rejected the cheque as there was no payee or that it 
said Mr and Mrs J would  need to approach  the issuing party for a replacement. He thought 
that Lloyds was entitled to follow its procedures of destroying the original cheque and relying 
on the image to process the transaction  if further information was received. And he felt that 
the compensation paid by Lloyds was fair and reasonable  in relation to the inconvenience 
caused by the incorrect  information it provided  initially.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators  opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Starting with the original  action  of rejecting the cheque - Ive seen  an image of the cheque 
that was presented and it didnt have a payee name written on it. So I dont think Lloyds has 
made an error when  rejecting it - as Lloyds couldnt  be sure that Mr and Mrs J were  the 
intended recipients of the funds. 
Ref: DRN05443762Mr and Mrs J have said that they would like the cheque to be returned to them  or for Lloyds 
to pay them  the value of the cheque.  Lloyds  has said that the cheque  has now been 
destroyed, in line with the procedures it set out in its final response. As it has been 
destroyed, the cheque cant be returned to Mr and Mrs J. And while I know this will come  as 
a disappointment to Mr and Mrs J, I dont think this means that Lloyds needs to pay them the 
value of the cheque.  
Lloyds has explained  that it uses the cheque imaging system  when dealing with cheque  
deposits. This means that it scans an image  of the cheque and this is used for processing  
and clearing payments   it takes the place of the paper cheque.  Because  of this, the paper 
cheque itself is no longer required,  which is why it has been destroyed.  So I dont think  this is 
unreasonable or that Lloyds was wrong  to do this. And I dont think  its actions have  changed 
what Mr and Mrs J now need to do or caused unnecessary inconvenience.
As Ive said,  I dont think Lloyds made an error  when it rejected the cheque. It says that Mr 
and Mrs J will need to contact the person that issued the cheque to request a replacement.  
Because the cheque has been  scanned and the image logged,  if the same  cheque was 
represented with payee details completed, it would  be considered a duplicate  and again  
rejected. And this is why a replacement is required.  But even if the cheque was still available  
and was returned, Mr and Mrs J would still have needed to contact  the issuer.  The cheque 
didnt have payee details on it. So it would always have needed amending in order for the 
payment to be made  with the payee  details being  added. And alterations to a cheque 
should be confirmed  by the issuer.  
So overall I dont  think Lloyds has made  an error in terms of how it has handled the 
deposited cheque.
In terms of what Mr and Mrs J were  initially told about the cheque,  specifically that it would 
be returned to them, Lloyds acknowledges that it made an error.  It seems to be agreed that 
Mrs J ended up making a journey to a Lloyds branch that she otherwise wouldnt have 
needed to. And I can see that follow up calls were  made to Lloyds about this. But I think  the 
£90 Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs J for the inconvenience caused by the incorrect information 
provided is fair. And as I think it has followed its procedures correctly in terms of handling the 
cheque, I dont think it needs  to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0544376