K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint  because  Santander recommended the policy  to 
Mr C but I dont think it was right for him. Ill explain why.
Mr C suffered from a pre-existing medical condition  at the point of sale. I think  this is 
important because the policy he took out limited the cover available  for pre-existing medical  
conditions. This was an important exclusion,  and I think it would have mattered to Mr C. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  its said about Mr C not 
mentioning his medical condition when he first raised his complaint.  But having thought 
carefully about what Mr C has said about  his condition, and why he may not have thought  to 
mention it earlier, Im persuaded that he did have a medical condition  that existed prior to the 
date of this sale.  And I dont think that his failure to mention  it when he first raised  his 
complaint means  this should be discounted.
I think Mr C wouldve seen his medical condition as a likely reason  he might want  to make  a 
claim under the policy. It had only recently  been  diagnosed and he didnt yet know  the full 
extent of his condition or the impact it was likely  to have on him in future. So I dont  think 
Mr C wouldve bought  this policy if Santander had made it clear it wasnt right for him. 
Santander has said that Mr C would have been asked about any medical conditions when he 
bought the policy, but it hasnt provided  any evidence  to support this, and the sample PPI 
application Santander has provided  from around  the time makes  no mention of possible 
restrictions on the cover. 
I think Mr C has lost out because of what Santander did wrong. So, for the reasons  
mentioned above,  I uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr C in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on. 
Ref: DRN03403652If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0340365