complaint
Mr L says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Sunny provided to Mr L between July and 
September 2017. Mr Ls borrowing history  is as follows:
*Please note that this represents the highest  contractual repayments due when these loans
were opened  alongside  previous outstanding loans.
An adjudicator reviewed the case and didnt think Sunny needed  to do more  when it gave
Mr L loans 1-4. But she thought that loan 5 shouldnt have  been  given to Mr L due to
his existing borrowing. Sunny disagreed with the view and said the lending  was affordable and 
it carried out adequate checks. Mr L also disagreed  with the view,  saying he had financial 
issues when loans 1-4 were given to him.  
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman   for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about short-term  lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages
Ref: DRN0067050K821x#15of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point  to the fact that Sunny should  and
reasonably have done more able for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
  the higher  the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more  difficult 
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
   the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably 
if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  needed to do any more  when it lent Mr L loans 1 to 4. 
Mr L disagreed with this, saying that when he took all the loans out he was in financial 
difficulties and Sunny shouldve  known  this. Hes also explained that the stress  of these 
difficulties was having an impact on his health.  Mr L says that he had other pay day loans 
and all the default markers should  be removed by Sunny  from his credit file. 
I am sorry  to hear of impact Mr L says these  loans have had on his health. However, looking 
at the lending for loans 1-4 I dont think Sunny was wrong  to give these loans to Mr L. When 
Mr L took out his first loan with Sunny it doesnt seem  that he had an existing relationship 
with them.  Looking at the monthly repayments  for loans 1-4 in light of Mr Ls declared 
disposable income its difficult for me to conclude that Sunny was wrong to decide  that the 
repayments would be affordable sustainably  for Mr L.
Mr L has also said that his credit file and bank statements wouldve revealed the issues  he 
was having manging his finances. Sunny carried out checks on Mr L before providing loans 
1-4 and these didnt reveal  anything of concern. And as explained  by our adjudicator we 
Ref: DRN00670503wouldnt have expected Sunny to ask for bank statements  given the amounts Mr L was 
borrowing and the fact it was early  on in the lending relationship.  
So I think Sunny  acted reasonably by carrying the checks it did and based on the information 
it gathered at the time I cant  see that there  is enough to alert it to any financial issues for 
Mr L. 
I can see Mr L was offered a repayment plan for some of his loans as he was struggling  to 
repay them. Mr L didnt  accept this plan and so defaults were added  to his credit  file for the 
relevant loans. I think Sunny acted reasonably here in trying to assist Mr L with a repayment 
plan. So I dont think it should remove the default  markers as Mr L has requested.  
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think  Sunny  acted irresponsibly in providing 
loans 1-4. However, I dont think Sunny shouldve given Mr L loan 5. Ill explain why. 
Sunny says it carried out adequate checks on Mr L when he applied  for loan 5. I think if 
Sunny had properly  considered Mr Ls financial situation I think it would have seen that loan 
5 shouldnt have  been given. I say this because Mr L had 3 existing loans with Sunny when 
he applied  for loan 5. Loans 3, 4 and 5 were taken out in quick  succession  and Mr L was 
having issues repaying loans 3 and 4. When Mr L applied for loan 5 I think  Sunny ought  to 
have been looking  to build up a clearer picture  of Mr Ls financial situation before lending  to 
him again. Especially  as each loan was to be repaid  over six instalments.
As Mr L had 3 loans  still running and had taken  out these loans within  a relatively  short 
period of time I think  there  was enough to show Mr L was having  issues managing his 
finances. So Mr L was not in a position to take on this borrowing and repay it sustainably.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr L loan 5.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Sunny is unable to buy the debts back then it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mr L towards  interest,
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything
Sunny has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by Mr L
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally  made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on the upheld
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr L as though  they had been
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr L having made
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should
Ref: DRN00670504be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr L. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  then
Sunny should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L.
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded  on Mr Ls credit file
in relation to loan 5. If Sunny has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny  should give Mr L a
certificate showing  how much tax Sunny has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ls complaint. Elevate Credit International
Limited should put things right for Mr L as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision
before 22 May 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0067050