K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) lent to her 
in an irresponsible  manner.
background 
Miss M was given a single loan by MCF. She borrowed  £2,000  in January 2019 and agreed 
to repay  the loan in 12 monthly  instalments. Miss M has faced problems repaying  the loan 
and a balance  remained outstanding when she made her complaint.
In response to Miss Ms complaint MCF  acknowledged that it might  have done better checks 
when she applied for the loan. So it accepted  that it might have been irresponsible  to lend to 
her. So to put things right MCF removed all the interest it had added  to the loan, only 
requiring Miss M to repay the principal that shed borrowed. And it removed the loan from 
Miss Ms credit file. Miss M didnt think MCFs actions were sufficient  she thought the 
remaining balance should be written-off. So she brought her complaint to this Service.
One of our adjudicators has considered Miss Ms complaint. He thought that the actions 
MCF had taken to put things right were fair and reasonable, and in line with what this 
Service would have  asked  it to do if wed found the loan had been  approved  irresponsibly. 
So he didnt think MCF needed to do anything  further.
Miss M didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Miss Ms complaint.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
In its final response to Miss M, MCF accepted  that it shouldnt have given her the loan. So 
I dont need to decide here whether or not MCF lent irresponsibly.  What is left for me to 
decide is what I think MCF should do to put things  right  and in particular whether the steps 
MCF has already taken are reasonable.
Generally, in complaints such as this, I would  think it reasonable that a consumer should 
repay the principal  amount that they were  lent. They have had the benefit of that money, so 
it isnt unreasonable that the lender should  expect it to be returned.  And I think  that aligns 
with what I said earlier about how I would resolve  a complaint. Putting Miss M back  into the 
position she would have been had the loan not been  agreed,  would mean  that the principal 
of the loan was returned  to MCF.
Ref: DRN04915952Ive looked closely  at what Miss M told MCF  when  she applied  for the loan.  I dont think there 
was anything in that information that would have  been so obvious  that I would consider 
MCFs decision  to agree  the loan to be grossly irresponsible, or reckless. So there doesnt 
seem to be any reason  why I should  deviate  from my normal  approach, and not ask Miss M 
to repay  the principal  that she borrowed.
MCF has now removed all the interest that it added to Miss Ms loan. The effect  of that is 
that ultimately Miss M will only need  to repay the principal that she borrowed. I think  that is a 
fair resolution to the complaint.
I can see that Miss M has explained to us, and to MCF, that she is facing significant  financial 
difficulties at this time. That in itself doesnt  lead me to think  that MCF shouldnt ultimately 
expect the loan to be repaid. But it does mean that the lender might need  to show  some 
forbearance when  discussing  any repayment  arrangements with Miss M. Im sure I dont 
need to remind  MCF  of its responsibilities in that regard.
So in summary,  I think the steps MCF has already  taken to put things right are fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  MCF to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint that Madison CF UK Limited lent to her 
in an irresponsible  manner. But I think  the steps  already taken by the lender to put things 
right are fair and reasonable  so I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0491595