K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained about the administration of her mortgage account by 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc.
This is the latest  in a series  of complaints Mrs G has made about this account. Mrs G is 
unhappy about the following issues:
Clydesdale has failed  to agree  a new payment plan and has imposed new mortgage 
conditions on her;
the bank has not used  a secure encrypted email  system;
it failed to give her time to respond to its letters  or provide her with forms she needed to 
complete about her income and expenditure;
although Mrs G gave  her brother consent to deal with the bank on her behalf, Clydesdale  
denied it had received this and provided her brother with an incorrect email  address;
the bank also refused  to add her brother  to one mortgage account as guarantor;
Clydesdale released her personal data to third parties without her consent;
finally, Mrs G says Clydesdale has failed to provide her with correspondence  from its 
solicitors.
Mrs G has also raised  issues weve previously considered in other complaints, the last of 
which was subject to a final decision dated  7 February 2018.  This decision relates only to 
matters that have arisen since that date.
background
In 2007 Mrs G took out three buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages with Clydesdale, one of which  has 
now been redeemed.  There  are two remaining mortgages, on properties  I will call R and S. 
Although the mortgage on S is a BTL mortgage,  I understand Mrs G is living  in the property. 
There are substantial arrears on both accounts, totalling  over £150,000.
In July 2018 Mrs G complained to Clydesdale that it was treating her unfairly  in relation to its 
handling of her arrears.  She said the bank  had refused to provide her with a budget planner, 
and hadnt allowed her time to provide her information. Clydesdale  said that Mrs G had told 
the bank shed be using the income  and expenditure  form from Citizens Advice,  so the bank  
was waiting for this. 
Clydesdale also disagreed that it had failed to allow Mrs G enough  time to reply. After  taking  
independent financial  advice, Mrs G told Clydesdale shed be paying the mortgages from her 
pension income.  Clydesdale said it could only consider Mrs Gs payment proposals after it 
was in receipt of her income and expenditure information.
Mrs G also said that her brother would be acting as guarantor for the mortgage on S. 
Clydesdale said this wasnt possible, as a guarantor could only be added  at the date of the 
initial application. Clydesdale did acknowledge  that it had given Mrs Gs brother an incorrect 
email address, and apologised  for this. 
Clydesdale explained  that it would allow Mrs G extra time to reply to Clydesdales letters (14 
days) as it acknowledged shed need to speak to her brother, who lives in Australia. 
Clydesdale said it would  consider any requests for more time to reply.
Ref: DRN06621782Mrs G was also unhappy that Clydesdale had released her personal data without her 
consent. Clydesdale explained that this was information the judge had ordered to be 
provided to solicitors acting for the freeholders, who had a charging order over the property, 
after theyd made  an application for an order for sale. Clydesdale  said it was obliged to 
comply with this order. Clydesdale also said it had provided information to its own solicitors,  
and was entitled to do so.
Unhappy with Clydesdales response, Mrs G complained to us. An investigator looked  at the 
complaint but didnt  think it should  be upheld.
Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint, because she disagreed  with what  
the investigator had said. Shes made  some  further points, some of which relate to previous 
complaints weve  looked  at, so I wont refer to those.  The ones relevant to this complaint are 
as follows:
her complaint is complicated  and procedurally complex. Mrs G believes it extends  
beyond the remit  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service;
we have a duty to consider any unlawful acts,  non-compliance  with the General Data  
Protection Regulation (GDPR), dishonesty and procedural  impropriety  where a 
vulnerable customer  has been treated unfairly;
she believes Clydesdale has no intention of finding a resolution  to this matter.
In September  2019, while the complaint was awaiting allocation to an ombudsman,  
Clydesdale began possession  proceedings.  There  was a hearing  on 20 November 2019 
which was adjourned to 11 March  2020.  The adjournment was because  Mrs G raised the 
issue of whether or not she had capacity  to deal with the court  proceedings. The judge 
adjourned the case so that a medical  report could be provided  and so that Mrs G could 
provide details of any third party to represent  her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  
This includes all the issues weve previously considered. As Mrs G has had several previous 
final decisions on those matters, its not appropriate for me to comment further on them. I 
appreciate that past events relating to these mortgages are still weighing  heavily on Mrs Gs 
mind. But once weve issued a final decision on a complaint, thats the end of our 
Ref: DRN06621783consideration of that matter. So its not open to me to reconsider issues  that have already 
been decided  by an ombudsman.
Ive reviewed everything provided  by Mrs G and Clydesdale. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded Clydesdale has treated Mrs G unfairly.  Its important to note that these are both 
BTL mortgages  and so are unregulated. This means  that the regulations set out in the 
Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business  Sourcebook (MCOB) in respect of the 
treatment of customers in arrears do not apply to these mortgages. This is the case even  
though Mrs G is living in one of her BTL properties.  Clydesdale is, however, required to treat 
customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically, and to give fair consideration 
to any payment proposals.
Before being able to consider payment proposals, Clydesdale  is entitled to be provided  with 
evidence of Mrs Gs income and expenditure. Im satisfied Clydesdale didnt fail to send out 
forms  because Mrs G said shed be using  the budget planner from Citizens  Advice. As no 
income and expenditure information was provided,  I find it reasonable that Clydesdale  
wasnt able to agree to Mrs Gs payment proposals.
The bank has acknowledged  it provided  Mrs Gs brother with an incorrect email  address. Im 
satisfied an apology has been made  for this. Clydesdales  also explained that it can use 
encrypted email,  if Mrs G prefers. Clydesdale has also agreed to allow Mrs G 14 days  to 
reply to its letters, which I think  is fair.
Ive been unable to identify any area where Clydesdale has changed the mortgage terms 
and conditions. Mrs G hasnt been specific about which  conditions  she believes have been 
changed, and Clydesdale  hasnt been  able to obtain any clarification from Mrs G either.  
Ive noted what  Mrs G has said about Clydesdale breaching GDPR. Providing information  to 
a third party in compliance with a court order does not, in my opinion,  breach GDPR. Nor 
does it breach GDPR for Clydesdale to correspond with its own solicitors  about Mrs Gs 
mortgage accounts. Ultimately breaches of GDPR are dealt with by the Information  
Commissioners Office.  If Mrs G disagrees  with what Ive said about  this, shes  free to 
pursue this issue further with the Information Commissioner.
Overall, Im not persuaded Clydesdale has acted  unfairly or unreasonably in its handling of 
these accounts  since 7 February  2018. But matters have moved  on since then and the bank 
has started possession proceedings which are now progressing through the courts.  If Mrs G 
disagrees with this final decision, she is free to raise all the matters  shes asked us to 
consider in this complaint in her defence  of the possession proceedings, if she wishes  to do 
so. Mrs G may want to take legal  advice about this. I have noted the position in relation to 
the assessment  of Mrs Gs mental  capacity.  If its determined that she lacks capacity to 
conduct the court proceedings, it would be up to her Litigation  Friend  to determine  what  
arguments should be put before the court in defence of the claim.
I think I should also explain  that, if the court does  decide that Mrs G lacks the mental 
capacity to be involved in the possession proceedings, this may also impact  on her capacity  
to bring future complaints  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Where a court has made a 
finding of fact that is material to a complaint that we are being  asked to consider, we have to 
take that into consideration. So if the court  determines in these current  possession 
proceedings that Mrs G lacks capacity, its likely we would need to see evidence  that this is 
no longer the case if Mrs G wants to bring a complaint  to us in the future about these 
mortgage accounts.
Ref: DRN06621784I know this isnt the decision Mrs G was hoping for, and Im sorry if my decision adds to her 
distress. But after taking everything into consideration,  I dont think Clydesdale has treated 
Mrs G unfairly  or unreasonably  in relation to its administration of these mortgage accounts.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0662178