K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a credit  card in July 1997. The PPI 
policy was taken out on the phone  around  three weeks  after Mrs B applied for her credit 
card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint  because  Mrs B said she was self-employed at the time 
of sale. Our adjudicator  took the view that it wouldve been more  difficult  for a self-employed  
person to make a successful claim. Our adjudicator concluded that if Mrs B had been given 
clearer information about PPI she wouldnt have bought  it.
MBNA didnt  agree  with our adjudicators view. It said that during a phone call about her 
complaint, Mrs B had told it she was working for a named company at the time of sale. It said 
she told it that she had worked for this named company for six months  at the time of sale 
and was entitled to statutory sick pay.
I asked Mrs B to provide  some evidence to show  that she was self-employed at the time of 
the sale. She replied  and said she no longer  holds  these records.  Mrs B also said that the 
business she worked for at the time was no longer running.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on Mrs Bs complaint  in January 2020. I said I was minded 
to not uphold it based on the information  Id been given. I gave Mrs B and MBNA  an 
opportunity to send  in any further  information  it wanted me to consider before I issued my 
final decision.
Neither Mrs B, nor MBNA, provided any further  information for me to consider.  
Mrs Bs complaint comes  back  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mrs Bs case.
Given theres no new information for me to consider,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision and for the reasons set out in that decision.  So, I am not upholding 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Mrs B said she didnt  know  PPI was optional. She said she wasnt  told about the terms and 
conditions or the policy exclusions. Ive seen Mrs Bs credit  card application form. The PPI 
section of the form was left blank; neither the yes nor the no box was selected.  So, I can see 
that PPI was added  some  time after Mrs B took out the card.  Mrs B cant  remember  when it 
was added. MBNA said it was added following a phone call. 
Ref: DRN07340202I think it likely that PPI was added because Mrs B said she wanted PPI during that call. I 
think she wouldve understood she didnt need  to take PPI to get the credit. I say this 
because she took it out after getting her credit card. So, I cant  fairly  uphold her complaint for 
this reason.
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs B. So, it didnt have to consider whether it was 
suitable for her. But, it did have to give her enough clear and fair information  about the PPI 
for her to make an informed choice that it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
I cant know what MBNA and Mrs B discussed  at the time of sale.  But, looking at her 
circumstances, I cant  see that PPI was obviously inappropriate for her. Ive seen MBNAs  
record of a telephone call between Mrs B and it about her employment  circumstances  when 
she took out the PPI. The note records that she told MBNA she was employed by a specific 
company at the time of sale and entitled  to statutory  sick pay. The line of work corresponds 
with whats shown on Mrs Bs credit card application. There is a box on the application form 
that reads Time with Present Employer (if self-employed, no. of years) this has been left 
blank. But, even had the box been  completed, it wouldnt have been clear  whether she was 
self employed, or employed.
I can see from Mrs Bs credit card application  form she provides the address of the company 
she was working for at that time. Looking on line, a business by the same  name  Mrs B gave 
MBNA is still operating  from that same address. 
Given that Mrs B has provided inconsistent  information about  her employment situation  and 
she has no records to confirm she was in fact self-employed, I dont have enough  to fairly 
conclude that more likely than not she was self-employed.  I think  the information she gave 
MBNA is more likely to be reliable. It was given  nearer  in time to the events in question.  So, I 
cant fairly conclude  that it wouldve been harder for her to make a successful claim  on the 
policy because of her employment status.
Looking at her other circumstances,  I cant see any other reason to uphold  her complaint. It 
seems she was eligible  for PPI. I cant see that it was unaffordable. She didnt mention 
having any other resources from which she could make her credit card repayments. I cant  
see that she was affected by any of the other main exclusions or limitations  in the policy, 
such as having  a pre-existing medical  condition.  
Its possible that she couldve  been  given clearer information overall. But, she appeared to 
want the cover, having opted  to take it out on the phone. I cant know  what she was told 
about the costs  and benefits, but I think she wouldve understood she had to pay something 
for it. And in her particular circumstances, it looks to me like the cover  wouldve been useful 
to her. 
Taking all of this into account,  I cant see that Mrs B has lost out because  of anything  that 
MBNA couldve  done better. I therefore  do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Ref: DRN07340203Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0734020