K821x#15complaint
Ms N says Welcome Financial Services Limited  mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaints about a single premium PPI policy Ms N took out with a loan in 2004. Ms N 
applied for the loan,  and was sold the PPI, during a meeting.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Welcome disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Welcome says it recommended  the PPI to Ms N so it should have checked that it was right 
for her. But I dont  think it was right for her. I say this because the policy  contained the 
following term:
We will not pay benefit for unemployment in the following circumstances:
If you have not either been in full-time employment for an employer  based  in the UK for 
12 months, or been self-employed in the UK for 12 months immediately before the 
unemployment claim. 
I think Ms N would have been  affected  by this term as Welcomes loan application papers 
from the time show shed  only been with her employer for eight days when she bought  the 
PPI. And they show she had a ten-day break  in employment before  she started for her then 
current employer. So she wouldnt have been  able to make an unemployment claim for very 
nearly 12 months. 
Bearing in mind the term of the loan was only 36 months, this means Ms N was paid 
(upfront) for unemployment cover which she could only have ever used for the final two 
thirds of the loan term. I dont think the PPI was suitable for her as a result.
Welcomes provided us with an email  from the administrators of the PPI which it says 
suggests Ms N wouldnt have been  prevented from claiming as the break  between  jobs was 
only short  and, presumably, she wasnt  registered  for/receiving state unemployment  benefit.  
I appreciate Welcomes attempt to clarify,  in theory,  what might have happened had Ms N 
tried to claim  for unemployment before shed been in work for 12 months. But theres no 
guarantee the administrators would  have treated a claim in that way back in 2004.  And while 
I agree  its unlikely Ms N was registered  for state  benefit for such a short  time, the fact 
remains that the policy terms required that she be in full-time employment defined as any 
Ref: DRN04140542paid work  of at least 16 hours a week  So, for ten days just prior to applying  for the loan 
and PPI, Ms N wasnt in full-time work  as per the policy terms.  
Taking everything into account,  I think Ms Ns lost out because  of how Welcome  sold her the 
PPI. So it needs  to put things right for her. 
putting things right
Ms N borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should  have been and 
she paid more than she should have each  month. So Ms N needs  to get back  the extra  shes  
paid. 
So, Welcome should:
Work  out and pay Ms N the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would  have  paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms N paid each month from when she 
paid it until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Ms N made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  Welcome  can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Welcome to take off tax from this interest.  Welcome  must 
give Ms N a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint and require Welcome  Financial Services  
Limited to put things  right for Ms N as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0414054