K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) dealt unfairly  with a 
claim under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
background
Mr G placed an order for the supply  and installation of a new bathroom  with a third party  
supplier. He made two payments to the supplier amounting to £6650 using his Tesco credit 
card, with the final instalment of £2850 still to be paid.
Following installation, Mr G noticed faults with the electrics and finish of the bathroom. He 
contacted the suppler who agreed that there were faults and offered to come back  and 
remedy the work. Mr G was initially prepared to allow the supplier to remedy  the work  but he 
subsequently discovered a leak in the bathroom  and lost faith in the suppliers ability  to put 
tings right.  Mr G asked the supplier  for a full refund of the monies hed paid together  with 
compensation of £1000.
The supplier  offered Mr G two options  to remedy the work.  The first was to waive  the final 
payment of £2850, pay compensation of £750 and allow Mr G to remedy the faults as he 
wished. The second was to remedy the work  relating to the poor finish  of the bathroom  and 
meet the costs  of a electrician  of Mr Gs choice to remedy the electrical  faults. Mr G would 
still be required to pay the final payment  of £2850.
Mr G wasnt happy with either option.  He wanted  a full refund so he raised a Section 25 
claim with Tesco.
Tesco rejected  his claim and said that the supplier  had made  a fair offer and should  be given 
the opportunity  to put things right.
Mr G was unhappy with Tescos response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator was satisfied there  were  serious  faults with the installation.  She said Tesco  
hadnt disputed  there had been a breach of contract but had said that the supplier  should  be 
allowed the chance to put things right. The investigator didnt think  it was fair of Tesco  to 
expect Mr G to allow  the supplier to carry out remedial work given the nature and extent of 
the faults. The investigator said that Tesco should  arrange to the bathroom to be removed, 
refund Mr Gs payments,  refund the cost of the independent inspection and pay 
compensation of £100.
Mr G didnt agree so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Gs complaint  about Tesco,  I would 
need to be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that 
Tescos response to the claim  under Section  75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
Ref: DRN05322472It might be helpful for me to set out my role here.  In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Gs complaint 
Ive taken Section  75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for example,  a court might reach if Mr G pursued a claim for breach of contract. 
Has there  been  a breach  of contract or a misrepresentation?
The relevant  law says the goods need  to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose  at the 
point of supply,  and the services should  have been  performed with reasonable skill and care.  
If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract  can be said to have occurred.
Having looked  at all of the available  evidence  including  the admission by the supplier and 
the contents of the independent report  I dont think the suppliers services were performed 
with reasonable  skill and care. So I think theres  been a breach of contract. 
It doesnt appear to be disputed  by Tesco that theres been a breach of contract so I wont  
focus further on this. What is in dispute  is what should be done to put things right.  So my 
decision will focus on that.
What should the remedy  be?
When a breach of contract is established under Section 75, Id expect the finance provider to 
take steps to put things right as if the breach hadnt occurred. In Mr Gs case, this might  
mean taking  steps  to remedy the faults  and repair the bathroom, or it might  mean  going  as 
far as removing the bathroom and refunding any payments made.
Tesco doesnt think it needs to go as far as removing the bathroom to put things right. It says 
the supplier should be given the chance  to remedy the faults.
Ive taken Tescos comments into account but I dont agree  the supplier should be given the 
chance to put things  right. The supplier  has admitted  23 separate  faults,  including  10 
electrical faults. None  of the faults are minor and the electrical faults are not just serious but 
could potentially cause  harm. The independent report says that in order  to resolve  the 
electrical faults the bathroom needs  to be stripped out completely.
Although Mr G initially accepted the suppliers offer to remedy  the faults, he changed his 
mind when he discovered further  faults  including a leak.  More recently hes discovered  
damage to the roof tiles.
Considering all of the available  evidence,  Im persuaded that, given the nature and extent of 
the faults, the bathroom isnt reasonably repairable.
I can also see that the relationship between Mr G and the supplier has broken down, so I 
dont think it would be reasonable to say that Mr G should allow the supplier back  to remedy 
the faults. Further, and as theres evidence that further issues  have been  found, I dont think 
a repair  or a partial refund would be a practical  solution.
Weighing everything up, and whilst I understand Tescos position,  I think theres enough 
evidence to suggest that Mr Gs bathroom  cant be reasonably repaired and I therefore think 
it needs to be replaced.  Im of the view that the bathroom should be removed and the 
payments made by Mr G refunded.
Ref: DRN05322473Further compensation
Its clear the level of service provided  by the supplier was lower than expected. But under a 
Section 75 complaint, Im only looking at what the finance provider has done  or needs to do 
in response to a like claim  for breach of contract  by the supplier. So I think  its relevant to 
consider what compensation a court might award  against a supplier in similar circumstances. 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience  is often  limited because as with any building 
work there is an expectation of a level of disruption. Further, a court  is unlikely to award  
damages for everything thats  been  affected as a result of the breach.
I do recognise that having the bathroom  removed is going to cause some physical 
inconvenience to Mr G which wouldnt have happened if things had gone as they should. Im 
able to ask Tesco to compensate Mr G for this because its directly linked to the remedy Im 
asking it to apply  in this complaint. I think Tesco should pay compensation of £100 for the 
temporary inconvenience that the removal of the bathroom will cause.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Tesco Personal Finance PLC should:
Arrange for the bathroom  to be removed and cover the cost of this work, including  
removing all debris from Mr Gs property and leaving it clean.
Refund the payments made  by Mr G towards  the bathroom
Refund all interest  charged  on Mr Gs original credit card payments from the date of 
payments to the date of settlement.
Refund Mr G the cost of the independent inspection together  with 8% simple  interest  
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0532247