K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains about the sale of a term assurance policy  by Connells Limited. 
background
In 2000 Miss T was sold a term assurance  policy. She says she was told she had to take out 
the policy as a requirement of her mortgage. 
Miss T later complained that the policy was mis-sold. She initially  thought the policy  was 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI). Connells explained that the policy  wasnt PPI, it was 
life insurance. And they didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.
Connells said the policy was sold prior to the regulation of General Insurance  in 2005. And 
they investigated the complaint in line with the applicable standards  at the time. They  said 
they were unable to find any evidence Miss T was told the policy  was a requirement of her 
mortgage. 
Miss T then brought her complaint to this service. It was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt uphold her complaint. He explained that the policy wasnt  PPI. And 
he didnt have enough supporting evidence to show she had to take out the policy  to obtain 
the mortgage.
Miss T didnt agree with him. She said she already had cover through  her employer which  
meant she didnt need  a further policy. Our adjudicator wasnt minded to change his opinion. 
He told Miss T because of when  the policy was sold he could only look at the issue of 
whether she was told she had to take out the policy. And he wasnt  able to just rely on verbal 
recollections. 
Unhappy with his response Miss T asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having looked  at all the evidence and information, Im not going to uphold  Miss Ts 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment but I hope the reasons Im about to 
give, help her to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
I firstly need  to explain why we can only look at certain aspects of Miss Ts complaint. The 
sale and marketing of insurance first became  an activity regulated  by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in 2005.
That means this service can look at complaints about the sale of insurance  products from 
that date. But the sale of Miss Ts policy was in 2000, which  was before that date. 
We can only look at insurance sales before 2005 for businesses  like Connells under certain 
circumstances. Connells was a member of the Mortgage Code Compliance  Board  (MCCB) 
from 1998 to 2004.  This means complaints about it could be looked at by the Mortgage  Code  
Arbitration Scheme (MCAS). 
Ref: DRN07058832In summary,  this means  that when  considering  Miss Ts complaint  against Connells, I can 
only look at the points MCAS couldve  looked  at. Please see the extract from the rules,  
below.
(5) Where the former scheme in question  is the MCAS Scheme [Mortgage Code Arbitration
Scheme], a complainant  is not to be treated as eligible for the purposes of paragraph (2) (d)
if :
a)The complaint  does not relate to a breach  of the Mortgage Code;
b)the complaint  concerns physical injury,  illness, nervous shock or their consequences;  
or
c)the complainant  is claiming a sum of money  that exceeds £100,000.
Miss Ts complaint isnt caught  by (b) or (c) above. So I need  to look at whether or not it 
relates to a breach of the Mortgage Code before I can continue.
Only a very small part of the Mortgage Code  related  to insurance. This was in section 3.2 of 
the code and it said: 
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the
following:
a description of any insurance  service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and 
whose responsibility  it is to ensure that it is taken  out; 
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by 
us;
a general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees, early  repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums).
So I can look at Miss Ts complaint but only in relation  to what she said about  being told the 
policy wasnt optional  in other words,  that it was a condition of the mortgage. Im unable  to 
consider the overall suitability of the policy. 
Ive then considered  if Connells have breached the Mortgage Code. They wouldve needed 
to tell Miss T she had to take out the policy to get the mortgage, when in fact she didnt need 
to. Miss T has said the policy was sold to her at a meeting and she was led to believe it was 
a requirement of the mortgage.
Miss T has also said she told the advisor  she had life cover  through  her employer,  so she 
wouldnt have need any further cover. However  she says she was told she wouldnt be 
accepted for the mortgage unless  she took the policy out.
While I dont doubt her recollection of the meeting with the advisor in 2000, I have to balance 
this against the information recorded. I also have to take into account the fact the meeting 
took place some 19 years ago. I have no record of the meeting Miss T had with the advisor, 
so Ive considered  Miss Ts recollections together with the documentation Ive received  from 
the time.
Ref: DRN07058833Miss T has provided  us with the mortgage offer letter she received at the time. And it says 
 it is no longer a requirement of this offer that you obtain a mortgage protection  policy  or 
other life policy.   
I also think its more likely  than not that Miss T would have received policy documents  which 
explained her option to cancel if she did not require the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and in particular the mortgage offer letter  that shows the 
policy was not a condition of the lending, Im not upholding this complaint. This is because 
Im not persuaded the policy was sold as a condition of the mortgage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019 .
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0705883