K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied  a gone away marker to her account. 
background
Barclays sent Ms A a letter. But this was returned  to it in September 2018. Because  of this, it 
applied a gone away marker to her account.  
Ms A called  Barclays and, as a result, the marker  was removed. But Ms A thinks  Barclays 
shouldve contacted her to let her know that a letter it sent to her had been returned. And 
she pointed out that she hadnt gone  away. 
Barclays said that when  it receives mail back that it had sent to an address it has on file for a 
customer, it puts a hold on sending out anything further. And it will do this until the customer 
gets in touch. It said it does this to help to prevent fraud and to make  sure it doesnt send 
mail to an address a customer might  not be living at any longer. It said that it isnt possible  to 
try to telephone customers when  mail is returned.
Barclays says that Ms A hasnt missed any mail that shouldve been  sent to her as a result of 
the gone away marker being applied. But it did say that the mail that was returned  to it 
wouldve been destroyed. And it cant tell what the item of mail was. 
Barclays told Ms A that the marker  was applied to her account on 18 August  2018. But it 
later said this was incorrect and that it hadnt been  added  until 10 September,  and was 
removed the following  day. It apologised for giving incorrect information and for any concern 
it caused by doing this. Barclays also gave  Ms A a total of £95 for giving an incorrect  date, 
for the call costs she incurred in dealing with this matter and for the length of time she was 
on hold during a related call. 
Our investigator considered this case. He didnt think Barclays  had done  anything wrong by 
applying a gone away marker to Ms As account  and he thought  that £95 was sufficient. But 
Ms A disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms A, I dont uphold  her complaint  and 
Ill explain  why. But before I do, Id like to point out that its for a business to decide what  
internal processes and procedures it has in place.  This generally  isnt something which our 
service would interfere  with, as such matters  are within the scope of reasonable, legitimate 
commercial judgments.  
Ref: DRN02974282Barclays has said that it applies  gone  away markers to help to prevent fraud. I deem  this to 
be plausible and persuasive as it reduces the likelihood  of Ms A (or other customers) 
information being accessed by a third party. So I see no reason to question  this further. It 
also said that it destroys returned  mail and doesnt make attempts to contact customers  
when mail is returned.  If Barclays cant locate the intended recipient, it seems logical to 
destroy the mail to stop it being accessed by a third party. I also dont think  its unreasonable 
for Barclays to choose not to attempt to contact customers when mail is returned. Instead, I 
think the onus  would  generally  be on a customer to make Barclays aware that theyve 
moved. I appreciate Ms A hadnt actually moved, but I dont think  it would be reasonable to 
expect Barclays to investigate to this extent each  time mail is returned. 
I recognise that Barclays gave incorrect information when it provided the date the gone 
away marker was applied. But, while frustrating, I dont think  this caused any detriment to 
Ms A. And I also note that Barclays appears  to accept that Ms A was kept on hold for too 
long and incurred  costs as a result  of this situation. I dont think  Barclays  was wrong to apply 
the marker  to Ms As account. But its chosen  to give her £95 to reflect  where it thinks things  
couldve gone better. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  to ask it to do any more  here 
 I think £95 is sufficient  to cover Ms As costs  and reflects the level of inconvenience 
caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint against  Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0297428