K820x#14complaint
Mrs Gs unhappy about misleading advice HSBC  UK Bank Plc gave her about  a balance  she 
owed on a loan.  
background
Mrs G took out a loan with HSBC. She got into arrears and in January 2018 entered into a   
repayment plan.  In February 2019  HSBC told her the debt had been paid off and she later 
received a letter confirming this. But this wasnt correct. HSBC has offered to pay her £100 
compensation for this mistake but is still asking her to repay the balance thats owed.
Mrs G is unhappy with what  has happened and the effect it mayve  had on her credit  file. 
HSBC apologised  in its final response  for giving Mrs G incorrect information that her loan 
had been repaid when  it hadnt been.  It said the loan was in arrears, had been defaulted and 
passed to its repayment  services  unit who would be pleased to set up an affordable  
repayment plan for the balance still owed of over £4,371. It offered Mrs G £100  
compensation for the concern and inconvenience caused by the incorrect  information given. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
HSBC accepts it incorrectly told Mrs G that the loan was repaid and closed. Although 
it incorrectly said in a letter in February  2019  that the balance  had been  paid in full, it 
isnt reasonable  to say it should  be bound by this and must now write off the debt.
Mrs G is concerned about what is recorded  on her credit file. He hasnt a copy of it 
but HSBC seems to have  followed  the correct procedures for defaulting the account 
and this will have been noted  on her credit  file. Thats fair. 
It was unfair of HSBC  to send Mrs G a letter saying her balance had been cleared. 
But as itd previously  chased her numerous times for payment of a sizeable balance,  
she couldve been reasonably aware that the balance hadnt been  settled  in full. 
HSBC sent six letters  to Mrs Gs correct address and he finds  it unlikely she wouldnt 
have received any of them. And even if she didnt receive  them she was responsible  
for ensuring repayments were  made. Despite this she stopped paying in January 
2018 with no reason  given and no basis to think the loan had been  repaid at that 
point.
The £100 compensation HSBC  has offered  is reasonable  and in line with what wed 
recommend. He cant ask HSBC to do any more.
Mrs G doesnt agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  She says she didnt receive 
HSBCs letters.  She also doesnt accept that £100 compensation is fair or enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear,  as HSBC has acknowledged that it made  an error telling Mrs G that her loan was 
paid off in full. But I think Mrs G should reasonably have been  aware  that this wasnt  correct. 
Ref: DRN03631712Whether or not she received  all or any of the six letters HSBC sent to her correct address 
she wouldve known she had stopped making payments towards the agreed repayment plan. 
And I think it shouldve been reasonably apparent to her that she hadnt actually paid off the 
loans outstanding balance and her debt.
I accept that HSBCs mistake wouldve caused  Mrs G some distress  and inconvenience 
particularly when it subsequently sought payment  of the balance  itd previously said was 
paid off. But I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to now require 
HSBC to actually  write  off Mrs Gs outstanding debt as she would like.
It isnt clear what HSBC has recorded  on Mrs Gs credit file. But given what has happened it 
was entitled to default the account  and it has an obligation to accurately record this on her 
credit file.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree with the 
investigator that a payment of £100 compensation in this case is fair for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs G by HSBC giving  her incorrect  information. And although I 
recognise Mrs Gs frustration and strength of feeling  I dont think  I can now require HSBC to 
do or pay anymore. 
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case. I 
simply leave it to Mrs G to decide  if she now wants to accept HSBCs offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0363171