K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is that Attivo Financial Services Limited (Attivo) failed to inform him about  
United States (US) Passive  Foreign  Investment  Company  (PFIC) tax implications for PFIC 
related investments it recommended from 2015. He says Attivo  should  compensate  him for 
the majority of the PFIC related tax he has incurred for the investments.
background
Mr K referred a previous complaint to this service  with regards to the professional costs he 
had to incur in preparing tax related  reports for the US Internal  Revenue Service (IRS) in 
relation to the same investments and in relation to previous  PFIC investments he held before 
Attivos recommendations. The previous complaint  was settled between both parties. After  
Mr Ks tax liability  became  certain  he pursued the present complaint. He submitted  that 
Attivos concession in settling the previous complaint stands as a basis for it to concede the 
present complaint.
Mr Ks assertion is that Attivo knew he was a US citizen and that it ought  to have highlighted 
to him that it did not know enough about tax implications for US investors  and that, for this 
reason, it ought  to have withdrawn from making recommendations to him. He says this 
would have given  him the opportunity to invest in US friendly  investments instead.
Attivo appears to have considered the matter  with mixed findings.  It referred  to its view of the 
previous complaint which, in summary  and as is relevant to the present complaint, were that:
It knew Mr K was a US citizen  but it never presented itself as a firm that understood 
non-UK tax regimes and its terms of business  reflected  this. Mr K had the services of 
a tax adviser until 2012, had he maintained that relationship the PFIC tax implications 
issue could have  been addressed in that context.
At the time of its recommendation(s) to Mr K there was little understanding  about 
PFICs in the domestic industry.  Nevertheless,  it should have contacted him after mid-
2015 to encourage him to speak to a specialist  tax advisor  which it did not do.
Returning to the present complaint, Attivos position  is that if it is assumed that Mr K did not 
invest at all  because  of the PFIC tax implications  and held cash  throughout the 
investment period, its calculation of the compensation he could claim for would be the 
equivalent of around £2,000. It said its calculation was based  on using this services  
approach for redressing deprived use of cash as a benchmark against  which  the 
performance of Mr Ks investments (minus the net PFIC related tax liability) was compared.  
It offered  this outcome in settlement but it was not accepted  by Mr K at the time.
One of our adjudicators did not consider that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded 
that the PFIC related tax was ultimately Mr Ks responsibility, especially as it applied  to 
investments he held previously, and that Attivo had no contractual obligation  to provide him 
with tax advice   nor did it offer to do so. Given this outcome, the adjudicator also suggested 
that Mr K reconsider Attivos settlement offer. 
Mr K agrees  that he was/is responsible for his own tax obligations,  but he notes  that 
information about PFIC related tax at the time was scarcely available to US overseas 
investors  hence  his need for professional  guidance/advice.  He also accepts that tax advice 
is a specialist area and that it cannot be expected from all investment advisers, but he 
Ref: DRN06466672retains the view that Attivo should not have made any investment recommendations to him 
due to its lack of familiarity with US tax law. The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My reading of Attivos position, at the time of issuing its final response  to the complaint, is 
that it says it was not obliged to address the PFIC related tax issue but, knowing  that Mr K 
was a US citizen, it should  have encouraged him to seek specialist advice. Its position is 
extended to its assumption of a cash holding  in the alternative  to the PFIC investments  
as a basis to consider  a potential settlement value. 
My remit  is to determine whether or not the complaint is upheld   not to address settlement 
proposals. In this context,  I do not uphold the complaint. I agree with Attivos  position  that it 
was not obliged to address the PFIC related  tax issue.  It has conceded having enough 
knowledge about Mr K to have encouraged him to seek  specialist tax advice.  It did not do 
this. However, I am not persuaded that its failure  in this respect is sufficient to make it 
responsible for the compensation that Mr K seeks.
Evidence from Mr Ks previous complaint includes  a letter of claim from his lawyer at the 
time in which  reference is made to notice from Attivo to Mr K in 2014  about the need to 
consider an alternative  investment platform because a particular platform  was not accepting 
business from US citizens due to factors  arising  from the US statute  Foreign Account Tax 
Compliance Act 2010 (FATCA). As stated earlier, he had PFIC related investments prior to 
Attivos involvement and he had a tax adviser  up to 2012. 
I note Mr Ks point that the implications of PFIC  related tax were not known to him. However, 
overall and on balance, I consider that he ought reasonably to have clarified his tax position  
 as a US overseas investor  by 2014 at the latest and/or before the idea of an 
encouragement to do so in 2015 which Attivo  says it should have given him (but did not). 
Attivo cannot reasonably be held responsible for not referring Mr K to get specialist tax 
advice in 2015 for his US overseas investor tax status, when evidence suggests  that such 
advice should,  or at least could, have been  given  by his tax adviser up to 2012; or when the 
need for such advice  should or could  have arisen in relation to the PFIC investments he held 
prior to engaging  Attivo; or when Attivos notice  to him in 2014 about FATCA was as good as 
an encouragement, or at least a prompt or reminder, for him to seek  specialist tax advice to 
clarify his tax position.
Aside from my treatment of Attivos  position  (above), I am not persuaded by Mr Ks slightly  
different position.  He says Attivo should have withdrawn from advising him. Attivo  appears  to 
have recommended Individual Savings Account (ISA) and General Investment Account 
(GIA) investments  and I do not consider either  to be beyond its remit to recommend  if 
deemed suitable for its client. In Mr Ks case, the suggestion is that they were unsuitable due 
to his US citizen tax status. However, that arguably returns the matter  to the notion of 
specialist tax advice   for which  Attivo  was not responsible.
Ref: DRN06466673my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision 
before 20 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0646667