K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that when he rang HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) to enquire about making a 
transfer of money  from his account  he was not made aware  of the charges for doing so until 
he had actually gone into the branch. He would  like compensation  of £100 for his wasted 
time.
background
Mr T contacted HSBC by phone, and said he was assured that if he went into a branch  with 
ID that their staff would  be able to make a transfer  he wanted to do. He said no mention was 
made of any charges during the telephone call. When on the phone he was told the reason 
he was asked to attend the branch was that in the circumstances of his transfer it was a 
fraud prevention initiative.  He duly went into a branch and after a staff member had verified 
his ID, he said it was only then that he was told there would be charges.
HSBC said that all banks  set individual limits on the value of payments which  can be sent by 
bill payment daily, and HSBCs limit is £10,000  by telephone banking and £25,000 by Online 
Banking. For higher amounts an Electronic Funds Transfer can be made but that goes 
through a different system and a fee is payable. Unfortunately HSBC do not allow  Electronic 
Funds Transfers to be made  through Online  Banking at the moment  and so require all 
customers to go into a branch.
HSBC say Mr T was already aware  that there  would  be charges made for completing a 
transfer in a branch because HSBC told him that by letter in 2014 in response to an earlier  
complaint.
Mr T was unhappy with HSBCs response  and so an investigator from this service looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly. As Mr T didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. What I need to decide is whether  the Bank 
acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr T. My aim is to ensure  that a fair and 
reasonable outcome has been achieved.  I do not perform the role of the industry regulator, 
and nor do I have the power to make  rules for financial businesses,  punish them, or direct 
that they change their processes. That falls under  the remit of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Equally we are not a court service.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where such evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
Ref: DRN08012502I accept that Mr T was told that he needed to go into branch as a fraud prevention  measure, 
and I can understand  and accept why HSBC would want  him to do that since  they were  
trying to protect not only him but all their customers by having such a system in place. That 
is reasonable. 
I can also accept that it will have been  frustrating for him to have travelled all the way to the 
branch before he was told of the fees payable.
However, I can see that Mr T was in fact made aware in 2014 that in branch transfers would 
attract a fee. I can accept that he was not made aware that there  would be a fee payable 
when he spoke on the telephone to HSBCs advisor on this occasion, but that didnt  
prejudice him because  he had already  been  given that information.
As HSBC had made Mr T aware  that fees were payable  on in branch transfers and then they 
told him again before he made  the transfer,  I dont think HSBC acted unfairly and Im not 
upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0801250