K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc has refused to refund  money  under the Direct Debit 
Guarantee (DDG).
background
Mr A says that hes been overcharged by his energy  provider. He says he asked Santander 
to refund his money under the DDG but it only refunded one months payment. Mr A says he 
should have received his payments from about August 2018 until early 2019.
Santander says Mr A gave it three different reasons why he should receive his money back  
under the DDG.  It says Mr A told it that payments  had been taken fraudulently, for an 
incorrect amount and that he had made  an overpayment.  So it says it correctly  declined to 
make a further indemnity.
Mr A brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the DDG  couldnt  be used to address a contractual  dispute  and didnt think Mr A had 
given Santander  an accurate reason to raise a claim. The investigator also thought that as 
the energy company was now in liquidation there was little Santander could do.
Mr A doesnt  accept that view and says he didnt say there was fraud but the business said 
that. He says he raised a number of different issues as there were a number of problems. 
Mr A says there wasnt  a contractual dispute  here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr A will be disappointed  by my decision.
The DDG scheme is designed to protect an account holder in the event of an error. It is not 
designed to resolve  contractual  disputes.  Ive looked through Santanders  records and I can 
see those records record a number  of different reasons why Mr A asked it to refund money  
under the DDG.  I can see that those reasons include  an allegation of fraud, a claim for an 
incorrect amount and an overpayment.  I appreciate Mr A says he didnt say there was a 
fraud but just different  problems.  But I think on balance there  was a dispute between  Mr A 
and the energy company  and so the DDG doesnt cover such matters.
I think there was such a dispute  as I can see that Mr As monthly  payment increased  in 
September 2018 and that amount was taken  for the next five months.  And I can see that 
Mr A didnt make an overpayment or that an incorrect amount could have been taken as it 
was the same payment for five months. So I dont  think  there  was a mistake or error here but 
a likely increase in Mr As monthly energy cost which  he disagreed with.
If there had have been a mistake here, with an incorrect amount being taken by direct debit 
then I would have  expected Mr A to have provided  evidence of the original agreement. And 
evidence that his energy cost didnt increase in or around August 2018.
Overall I dont think this is a complaint which involves a mistake  in the amount taken by 
direct debit. So I dont  think Santander acted unreasonably by refusing to refund the direct 
debit payments under the DDG. 
Ref: DRN02368002my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0236800