K822xcomplaint
Miss D complains about end of contract charges when her agreement  with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  ended.
background 
In 2016 Miss D was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement  with 
MBFS. The contract reached maturity in January  2018.
MBFSs collection agent was unable to contact Miss D so the account  was passed to a third 
party to recover the car.
The third party completed a report when it collected  the car and a further inspection was 
carried out at the de-fleet site. Following  this inspection MBFS asked Miss D to pay charges 
for damage  totalling  £3,101.51.
Miss D disputes the charges. She says she wasnt made aware  that a further inspection  
would take place once the car had been  collected by the third party. She acknowledges that 
there was some damage to the tyres  and that she had missed a service but apart  from this 
she said the car was in good condition when she returned it. She feels that any further 
damage mustve been caused after the car was collected.
Miss D complained to MBFS but it wasnt prepared to remove  the charges. She complained  
to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said it hadnt  been made  clear  to Miss D 
by the recovery  company  that the check it carried out wasnt a full inspection.  He also found 
that Miss D hadnt been given the opportunity  to be present at the final inspection. The 
investigator found that some of the damage charges should be waived but that other should 
stand and that the overall damage charges  should  be reduced by 10%.  The investigator also 
said that the additional vehicle usage and incomplete service charges had been  calculated 
incorrectly.
MBFS agreed with the investigators view. But Miss D didnt agree  she said that the charge 
for the damaged seat was unfair  and that this mustve happened after the car had been  
collected. She was also unhappy that it hadnt  been made clear to her that the inspection  by 
the recovery company  wasnt the final inspection and said if shed been made aware of this 
she wouldve arranged to be present at the final inspection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Miss D must return  the car in good  
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ref: DRN01843202Ive looked at the inspection report including the images. Based on what  Ive seen, and 
taking into account  the relevant guidelines,  Im of the same  opinion as the investigator.  Save 
for the damage  to the RH quarter panel,  the LH door, the RH tyre and the RH wheel, I think  
the charges are fair.
Miss D has made the point that she wasnt aware that there would  be a further inspection. 
Ive listened to the telephone call in which Miss D arranged the collection and Im of the view 
that the recovery company couldve been  clearer in explaining that this wouldnt be the final 
inspection. That said, Ive also reviewed  the inspection report and it clearly says that it isnt a 
full wear and tear assessment.  Miss D has acknowledged that the collection report  stated 
that it wasnt the final inspection but says the print was very small.
 Ive thought about whether it wouldve made a difference if Miss D had been advised that it 
wasnt the final inspection. I think its likely  that she wouldve attended the final inspection  but 
I dint think the outcome  wouldve been any different because the damage would still have 
been present.
I can see that Miss D was provided with a copy of MBFSs vehicle return standards  at the 
start of her agreement. So Im satisfied  that she had the opportunity  to see what kind of 
damage would go beyond fair wear and tear. She could  have  arranged  for repairs  to be 
carried out before her agreement ended if shed wished.
Taking everything into account,  I think it couldve been made clearer to Miss D that there  
would be a final inspection after the car was collected. I think  the 10% reduction in the 
damage charges  is a reasonable  way to reflect and compensate  Miss D for this.
I appreciate that Miss D is unhappy that shes been  charged for an inoperative RH seat base 
cover. Having regard  to the guidelines,  Im satisfied that this kind of damage goes beyond 
fair wear and tear. Miss D has said that the damage  was caused after the car was collected. 
However, I can see that the mileage on the car didnt change  between collection and final 
inspection, which means the car wasnt driven. So I think its very unlikely that any damage 
was caused to the seat base after the car was collected. On the balance of probability,  the 
seat base was damaged when Miss D returned  the car.
Taking everything into account,  I think the amount which Miss D should  be liable for is 
£2228.16. This comprises £747.50  damage charges, £850 for the incomplete service  history 
and £630.66 for additional  use of the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  
UK Limited  must reduce  the damage charges from £3,101.51 to £2,228.16.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01843203
Ref: DRN0184320