K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  unreasonably 
refused to pay his claim under his pet policy. Mr R is represented  by his wife Mrs R.
background
Mr Rs dog developed  a lump in 2013. The vet then said it was nothing serious. Mr R took 
out his policy  with Red Sands in 2016. In 2018, the lump had changes so Mr R took his dog 
to the vet. The vet diagnosed that his dog had a mast cell tumour. Treatment followed and 
Mr R made  a claim to Red Sands.
Red Sands  said because the lump  had been there  before the policy was taken out, it 
wouldnt pay his claim.
Mr R then brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  Red Sands had done 
anything wrong. Mr R disagreed and so his complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 September and said the following:
Theres no dispute Mr Rs dog had a lump before he took out the policy.  There  was 
nothing wrong  with the lump at the time Mr R took out the policy, but nevertheless it 
was there.  Mr Rs policy is for the lifetime of his dog with an annual condition  limit of 
£2,000 per year.
Red Sands policy in common with almost  every other policy  doesnt  provide cover 
for any pre-existing conditions. So the central issue of this complaint is whether  a 
lump causing no issues  at the time the policy was taken out can now be classed as a 
pre-existing condition.
In order to assess that regard must be given to the definition in Red Sands policy of 
what it considers a pre-existing condition to be. The relevant clause says the 
following:
Pre-existing condition means:
Any condition, symptom or sign of a condition  occurring or existing in 
any form and at any time prior to the commencement date; or
Any illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any 
form during the first 14 days of the commencement date.
I consider that the existence of a lump is at least a sign of a potential  issue.  The 
clause doesnt  require it to be a medical condition as Mrs R believes.  And 
furthermore, contrary to what  Mrs R believes, theres no duty in the policy application 
for Mr R to have disclosed this lump when  applying for the policy.  The policy simply 
doesnt provide  cover  for anything  that could be classed as pre-existing in line with 
the above definition. Sadly, that often  doesnt come about until the claim occurs and 
the vet history is examined.  
Here, there was a lump, which existed without causing any problems before the 
policy began and very sadly, it developed into a mast cell tumour, causing, as I 
understand it, other mast  cell lumps to grow too. 
Ref: DRN06184462If Mr Rs dog didnt have  any fatty lumps before the policy began,  my decision on this 
point might well be different. My decision might  also have  been different, if the mast 
cell tumours didnt affect this lump at all, but simply grew elsewhere. In that scenario, 
there would be nothing to tie in this pre-existing lump to the development of mast cell 
tumours. 
But sadly  here, this lump on Mr Rs dog changed  and became cancerous causing  the 
claim. 
The declaration statement  provided  by Red Sands when the policy was taken out 
also includes  the word  sign.  And I consider this lump did turn out to be such a sign 
indicating a pre-existing condition  as per the definition.
Therefore, I dont think Red Sands did anything wrong in turning down this claim for 
mast cell tumours.
However, I dont consider  Red Sands  is entitled  to now impose the exclusion it has 
from the inception  of the policy, namely  all claims with respect to growths, tumours 
and cancers from 1 March  2016.  I think thats far too wide and consequently unfair. 
Mr R has a lifetime  policy  for his dog. That consequently provides cover from the 
date his policy started until his dog dies or Mr R cancels his policy, provided  the 
condition claimed  is not pre-existing. Theres nothing in the vet history which  
indicates all cancers  must now be excluded or indeed all growths  whether 
cancerous or not. Certainly, I can see why mast  cell tumours can be excluded,  but 
not the rest.
I consider Mr R is entitled to cover  from any other  type of cancer and I consider hes 
also entitled to cover for any other  type of growth  or tumour  thats not a mast cell 
tumour. Had Red Sands been aware of the fatty lump, that wasnt  doing anything  
unusual at the time of Mr Rs application  for this policy,  it hasnt  shown me that it 
would have then excluded all growths, tumours and cancers. 
Additionally, no vet could have ever said this fatty lump would turn into a mast  cell 
tumour, as fatty lumps  are very common in dogs and not all by any stretch turn into 
mast cell tumours. Secondly, Red Sands asked no direct questions at the time of the 
application, merely provided presumptions and assumptions. So its application 
process doesnt rely on such disclosure of ordinary fatty lumps.
And bearing  in mind  the wording  of those presumptions and assumptions theres still 
nothing to indicate cover  should not be provided for other cancers, other  growths or 
indeed other  sorts of tumours that bear no relation to fatty lumps turning to mast cell 
tumours. This is after all a lifetime policy.
Therefore, I intend to direct that the exclusion is limited only to mast cell tumours and 
nothing more solely on the basis a pre-existing fatty lump sadly  developed into a 
mast cell tumour.
Red Sands  didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr R did. He said the complaint was in 
relation to two claims. The first being  this pre-existing lump, which sadly turned  into a mast  
cell tumour and the second claim concerned the removal  of other  lumps.  It now transpires 
those other  lumps werent mast  cell tumours as detailed by pathologist.  So Mr R would  like 
Ref: DRN06184463this second claim considered on the basis that I intended to limit the exclusion to mast cell 
tumours only.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis that Red Sands failed to respond  to my provisional decision or proffer further 
evidence as to why my intention to limit the exclusion to mast cell tumours  only I see no 
reason to change  my mind. Therefore, I consider its fair and reasonable to limit the 
exclusion to mast cell tumours  only for the reasons  Ive given above in my provisional  
decision. I remain of the view that Mr Rs first claim was pre-existing given  the lump  which  
turned into a mast cell tumour pre-existed the start date of the policy.
Further, on the basis of the evidence produced by Mr R, its clear  his second claim doesnt  
relate to mast cell tumours. Therefore, I consider  this claim should now be considered under 
the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy in the normal  way.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Amends its exclusion to simply exclude  mast cell tumours  and nothing  more.
Consider Mr Rs second claim, which now doesnt relate to mast  cell tumours under 
the remaining  terms and conditions  of the policy, with view to paying it.
If it decides to pay this claim, and its clear Mr R has already paid the vet fees, it 
should add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr R paid the vet fees to 
date it reimburses Mr R.*
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0618446