K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Telefonica UK Limited, trading as O2 (O2):
didnt give her the correct advice about her old phones warranty 
hasnt provided  her with the correct upgraded phone 
has listed her new phone incorrectly on the new credit agreement
background
Mrs T was having problems with her old phone so she contacted O2 and agreed  to upgrade 
to a new phone in July 2018.  She says they told her the warranty for her new phone had 
expired because it was only for twelve months but O2 subsequently said the warranty  was 
for 24 months and if that was the case she says she wouldnt have upgraded and incurred 
the £69 upgrade fee.
She also complains that the finance agreement  shes been provided with for her new phone 
is wrong. She says it refers to the wrong model  of phone and shes  therefore concerned its 
not a valid agreement and she may have been charged more money for a phone that wasnt 
upgraded.
O2 explained  that her previous phone  had a 12 month and not a 24 month  warranty and that 
they had told Mrs T this when she called  and discussed the upgrade. They  couldnt  find any 
evidence shed been given different information about the length of the warranty. So they 
didnt think it was fair to refund the £69 as they thought they hadnt  made  a mistake.  
They also checked  and clarified that the model of phone Mrs T had been given was the 
upgraded model she requested. So again  they didnt  think Mrs T had been disadvantaged. 
But Mrs T was dissatisfied with their response  and she therefore referred her complaint to 
this service. Our adjudicator provided  his opinion in March 2019.  He reviewed O2s system 
notes but couldnt find any record that Mrs T had been wrongly  informed about  the length  of 
the warranty. He noted  that the finance  agreement did refer to the older phone model but he 
obtained the IMEI number and checked  it. The IMEI confirmed that the phone  was the newer 
model that Mrs T had ordered and the value of the goods listed on the credit agreement was 
the same  as the value listed on O2s system for a new phone of the upgraded model. He 
agreed with O2 that theyd send an email correction  to explain the model that had been 
provided and that this would mean  the finance agreement was valid for the correct phone. 
So he didnt think Mrs T had been provided  with the wrong phone  and overall he didnt think 
O2 had done anything wrong  or needed  to take further action.
But Mrs T disagreed. She said the model of phone shed been given couldnt be an upgrade 
as it was of a lower  cost and she said O2s communication with her had been  very 
misleading as they kept referring to the wrong  phone model and confused  her about the 
warranty. So she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00041582I know it will disappoint Mrs T but I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed the system  notes provided  by O2 of conversations they had with Mrs T and I 
cant see that Mrs T was wrongly  informed  about  the warranty. So I dont think theres  
evidence Mrs T was wrongly informed and that this disadvantaged her and led to her having 
to unnecessarily enter into an upgraded contract.
I can see that the phone has been  wrongly  identified on the contract but Im persuaded the 
phone was the model Mrs T ordered as the IMEI check, ran by the adjudicator, has listed  it 
as such. The finance agreement is set up for the correct value and as this is the model  Mrs T 
ordered I cant say O2 have done  anything wrong here.  Theyve confirmed that theyll  send 
an email to explain the problem with the contract  so that Mrs T is legally covered by the 
agreement for the correct  phone and I think that is reasonable.
So whilst I can understand that this has been a frustrating incident  for Mrs T I cant see that 
O2 need to take any additional action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0004158