K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly  settled a claim against 
his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
background 
Calpe told Mr R that another driver  had alleged  that Mr R had been at fault for an accident. 
Mr R said that he hadn't  been in an accident.  Calpe settled the other  drivers  claim for the 
damage to his car and other associated costs. Calpe then told Mr R hed have to pay his 
£3,000 excess.
Mr R brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs 
complaint. He didn't think Calpe had dealt  with Mr R fairly. To put things ruigt our investigator  
said Calpe  should:  ensue the claim isn't recorded  on external databases; write to Mr R to 
confirm that it had done so and confirm that the incident hasnt affected Mr Rs no claims 
discount (NCD); pay Mr R £250  compensation; and refund Mr R the £3,000  excess 
(assuming hed paid it) and add simple  interest  to any refund.
As Calpe didn't reply to our investigators  recommendations the case had been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, or to 
say whether or not that accident  took place, as ultimately thats a matter  for the courts.  And, 
like all motor policies, Mr Rs policy allows  Calpe  to settle claims as it sees  fit. That means  it 
doesnt require  Mr Rs consent to decide  how to settle a claim and it may make a decision 
that Mr R doesnt agree  with. But Ill look to see that its done so reasonably.
In this case the other drivers representatives  told Calpe that Mr R had reversed out of a 
driveway and hit the other drivers car. The other driver alleged  Mr R had offered money to 
pay for repairs there and then, which the other driver  refused. In support of the allegation, 
the other driver provided an image of Mr Rs car and a physical description  of Mr R. In 
contrast Mr R said that he wasn't involved in any accident at all.
Calpe sent out an independent  engineer to examine Mr Rs car. The engineer concluded  that 
there was no damage to Mr Rs car, or other  evidence that the car had been involved in the 
incident at issue.  Calpe  also sent out an investigator to interview Mr R. The investigator said 
that Mr R would make a credible witness and also concluded  that Mr R hadn't been  involved 
in the accident. Calpe settled the other drivers  claim. And in total it paid out over £5,300  to 
do so. 
Mr Rs policy  is whats known as an all sections excess policy. That means hes required to 
pay his excess even  if he doesn't  make a claim for damage to his own car. So, for any claim 
against his policy,  including  a claim from a third party, Mr R has to pay an excess  of up to 
£3,000, regardless  of whos at fault.  And as Calpe settled  the claim for over £5,300  it asked 
Ref: DRN00799072Mr R to pay it his excess  of £3,000.  But I think it would only be fair for Calpe to ask Mr R to 
pay that excess where he's been  involved in an accident or otherwise given rise to a claim. 
And in this case Im not persuaded that he has.
The only evidence Mr R was involved in the accident is: the other  drivers  allegation; a photo 
of Mr Rs car; and a very general description of what Mr R looks like. I note the alleged 
accident is supposed to have taken  place on the road where Mr R lives but notably  not at 
Mr Rs home  address. Theres no date stamp or any other  evidence  to show when  the photo 
of his car was taken.  And it doesn't show any damage to Mr Rs car. I think it could have 
been taken at any time and I don't think there's any persuasive evidence  to tie the photo to 
the alleged incident.
Also an independent engineer inspected Mr R's car and concluded that there was no 
evidence it had been involved in the alleged accident. That is there was no damage 
whatsoever to Mr Rs car, not even a scratch or a scuff, consistent with the other drivers 
allegations, and no evidence the car had been  repaired. Calpe paid out over £2,700  to repair  
the damage to the other drivers car. But I can't see that Calpe asked for a consistency 
report that compared the damage to the other  drivers  car with the alleged incident and the 
condition of Mr R's car. And it seemed highly unlikely that an incident that caused fairly 
significant damage to one car could leave  the other car with no indication  whatsoever it had 
been in the collision. And I note that the expert evidence of the independent  engineer was 
that Mr R's car hadn't been in the alleged incident.  And theres no other expert evidence to 
counter that argument. I've also noted  that the investigator Calpe instructed to interview Mr 
R also concluded that he hadn't been  involved in the alleged  incident.
In those circumstances, where the expert  evidence  is that Mr Rs car wasn't involved in the 
incident, I don't think it was fair that Calpe agreed  to settle the claim based on extremely 
flimsy evidence. And I think it would have  been  fair and reasonable for Calpe to do more  to 
defend the claim. It follows that I don't think it handled the claim reasonably.  To put things 
right I think  Calpe should amend any external databases to remove the record  of the claim 
from Mr R's driving history. It should  give Mr R a letter  to confirm that it has done  so and that 
the incident has not affected Mr Rs no claims discount. And if Mr R has paid his excess then 
Calpe should  refund that and add simple  interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date Mr R paid it to the date it refunds him. If he hasn't already paid it then Calpe should 
stop any action  to recover the excess from him. 
Also Im aware  that Calpes handling  of his claim has been a source of distress  and 
inconvenience for Mr R. To address this I think Calpe should pay him £250 compensation. 
Im aware Mr R doesn't  feel that this sum is enough, but Im satisfied that its a reasonable 
figure in the circumstances  as its similar to awards I would make in other  cases of equivalent 
seriousness. 
For completeness Ill add that Mr R provided evidence that he was on holiday at the time the 
accident is supposed to have happened. So he says he couldn't have been driving the car 
on his road then. But I note theres  been some  confusion  on the exact date the alleged  
incident took place, with two different dates being provided. And if it were the earlier  date 
then Mr R could have  been at the location. But given that I don't think theres  reasonable 
evidence that Mr Rs car was in an accident  on any date I don't intend  to make a finding on 
what date the accident happened  and whether or not Mr R was at the location on that date.
Ref: DRN00799073my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Remove the record of this claim from Mr Rs driving history on any external 
databases.
Write  to Mr R to confirm that it has removed  the record of the claim and to confirm  
that it hasn't affected his NCD.
If Mr R has paid his excess than Calpe  should refund that amount. It should add 
simple interest at a rate of 8% a year to any refund  from the date Mr R paid the 
excess to the date it pays the refund1. If Mr R hasn't  already paid the excess Calpe 
should stop any action to recover that sum from him.
Pay Mr R £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  Calpe should  pay 
the compensation within  28 days of us telling it that Mr R has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Calpe considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0079907