K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC misled them about their monthly  
mortgage repayment after they changed  the rate and reduced the term in October 2018.
background
Mrs J got in touch with Barclays in April 2018  as the fixed rate on their mortgage  would  be 
coming to an end within the next few months.
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs J submitted  an application, which  included  a rate switch  and 
a term reduction to 12 years. At the same  time they also applied for some  additional  
borrowing.
In October  2018 both mortgages went ahead. However, Mr and Mrs J were  surprised to find 
that their new monthly repayment from November would be £796.95. This was made up of 
£673.83 payable  for the existing mortgage  and £123.12 for the new mortgage.  Mrs J said 
shed been told it would  be a total repayment  of £701.01. So, she complained.
Barclays thought  it had been  made clear to Mr and Mrs J that their existing mortgage 
repayment would increase from £577.89 to approximately £680.49 per month. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill it provided  a refund equivalent to the difference between  the two 
payments for November  and December 2018, totalling £191.68, plus £50 for any 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy and referred  their complaint to our service. Mrs J said she 
wasnt made aware the repayment on the existing mortgage would increase to £680.49;  she 
said the adviser told her it would  be £577.89.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was sufficient evidence  to 
show the mortgage adviser had misled Mr and Mrs J. But in any event, he thought the 
paperwork provided to them  made  it clear  the new repayment on the existing mortgage 
would be approximately  £680.49 per month.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept this and provided  a consolidated payment notice it received from 
Barclays dated 2 October  2018. This showed  their total repayment would be £701.01 from 
November 2018.
The investigator said this had been issued  before  the rate switch took effect, as the 
mortgage offer was dated 5 October  2018. He still didnt think there  was sufficient evidence  
to show Mr and Mrs J had been misled. So, Mr and Mrs J asked for an ombudsman to 
consider their case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs J.
Mr and Mrs J have said the mortgage  adviser  told them  their existing mortgage repayment 
would increase to £577.89. Theyve said it isnt fair to rely on the paperwork over what  they 
Ref: DRN05457252were told, because this is what  they based  their decision to proceed on. They dont dispute  
that they were  aware the repayment for the further advance  was £123.12 per month.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between the mortgage adviser and 
Mr and Mrs J. While Ive taken what theyve said into account, Ive also had to look at the 
other available evidence, which includes the advisers notes,  the mortgage application form 
and the mortgage offer. Ive considered all of this evidence and made  a decision based on 
what I think most likely  happened.
Mr and Mrs Js existing mortgage  fixed rate was due to end on 30 September 2018.  Up to 
this point, they were  paying £524.98  per month  and had a remaining term of 16 years  and 
11 months. Mr and Mrs J say that having  agreed the rate and term change  with the adviser,  
they understood theyd be paying  £577.89 per month on this part of the mortgage going 
forwards.
Having reviewed the paperwork, the application  was completed on 19 September  2018   
this is the date Mr and Mrs Js electronic signatures  were added to it. The application form 
states that the new mortgage repayment would be around £680.49 and the term would be 
12 years.  Mr and Mrs J say that the paperwork they signed had a different repayment  
amount on it, but I havent seen any evidence to this effect. So, it seems  more likely to me 
that the paperwork Mr and Mrs J signed had the correct new monthly repayment on it.
Ive seen a copy  of the consolidated payment notice Barclays issued on 2 October  2018,  this 
does in fact state  that Mr and Mrs Js new repayment would be a total of £701.01. However,  
I can see this was issued  before  the rate switch was applied to the existing borrowing  so 
this represented  the amount Mr and Mrs J wouldve been paying  if they hadnt  taken a new 
fixed rate on their existing  mortgage.
I asked Barclays why the new borrowing went ahead before the rate switch  on the existing 
mortgage was applied. It said the reason for the timing difference   despite  the applications 
having been made at the same time  was because of the fees involved. Barclays wasnt  
going to charge Mr and Mrs J two arrangement  fees,  but in order to waive  the fee on the 
restructure of the existing  mortgage, the further  advance needed to be completed  first. This 
completed on 2 October 2018, which is why the payment notice was sent on this date 
including the new monthly repayment  for the further  advance. However, the rate and term 
switch on the existing mortgage hadnt yet completed, which  is why it was shown as being  
£577.89 per month.
The rate and term switch  completed on 5 October 2018 and the mortgage offer was issued 
to Mr and Mrs J on this date  this reflected the new payment  of £680.49. I know  
Mr and Mrs J said they didnt receive a copy of the mortgage offer, but this was correctly  
addressed so I wouldve expected them to have received it.
Its possible that the adviser didnt make the higher  repayment clear to Mr and Mrs J when 
they spoke. But I think the paperwork they received  was clear, particularly the mortgage offer 
sent to them.  So I think they were given  sufficient warning that their repayments  would 
increase.
Barclays has paid Mr and Mrs J £191.68, plus £50 for any inconvenience caused  by the 
adviser failing  to make the new repayment clear  when they spoke. Overall, I think this 
compensation is fair for any misunderstanding caused at this point.
Ref: DRN05457253I know Mr and Mrs J now say they wouldnt have  agreed to the higher monthly  repayment  for 
their existing mortgage, but the notes are clear in saying they wanted to repay the mortgage 
sooner. This doesnt appear to be in dispute.  So, they wouldve always  had to pay this 
amount if they wanted to reduce the term to 12 years. If Mr and Mrs J are struggling to pay 
this extra  sum, Id encourage them to contact  Barclays  to find out what their options are.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
I think Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid a reasonable amount of compensation  so 
Im not asking it to do any more to put things  right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0545725