K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Trusted Cash Limited, trading as Trusted  Quid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr S had six loans with Trusted  Quid between August 2012 and March 2013. Ive set out 
some of the information  the business  provided about these loans in the table below.
Loan no. Amount  (£) Date  approved
1 100 13/08/2012
2 200 07/10/2012
3 100 15/11/2012
4 200 02/01/2013
5 100 04/02/2013
6 100 05/03/2013
An adjudicator considered  this complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr S didnt 
agree with the adjudicator. He said he was in a debt management plan when he took out the 
loans and that had Trusted Quid carried out the right credit checks it wouldnt have lent to 
him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Throughout the period of lending, the regulator  was the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT). The 
OFT had published guidance  on irresponsible lending (ILG), including  an updated  version in 
February 2011. The ILG makes it clear lenders have a duty to lend responsibly  this 
includes undertaking proportionate affordability  checks to ensure customers  can repay loans 
sustainably. Theres no prescriptive list of the sort of checks a lender should carry out, but 
the guidance says lenders may wish to take into account factors  such  as the type of credit, a 
customers credit history  and their existing financial commitments.
With this in mind, Ive considered whether Trusted Quid  carried out proportionate checks  for 
each loan and, if it didnt, what I think such checks would likely  have shown.
Ref: DRN06880382For each loan Trusted Quid has shown us it completed an income  and expenditure check  
with information  provided by Mr S. For each loan Mr S told the business his earnings were 
£1,300 a month. His declared outgoings  varied.  For loan 1, he said he paid £250 a month  in 
rent and spent  £50 on his phone bill, £90 on travel and £30 on entertainment.  He said his 
other expenditure included a £300  payday loan, £100 for an ordinary loan and £25 towards a 
credit card. So his total declared expenditure was £845. This left £455 of disposable  income 
after deducting expenditure  from income.
Trusted Quid asked  the same questions for loans  2 to 4, with the results suggesting Mr S 
had enough money left over after expected expenditure to repay  the loans from his income. 
The business has also shown  us a summary  of a credit check it ran. It says its process is to 
only carry out one credit check, rather than to do it for every loan. The results  of the check 
show that Mr S wasnt insolvent; had no county court judgements;  had defaulted on a credit 
agreement eight months ago; wasnt in a debt management plan or IVA and had eight up-to-
date accounts.
I think checks like these were proportionate  in the circumstances of loans 1-4. Trusted Quid  
asked about Mr S income,  regular expenditure and it appears  that Mr S understood he 
should include his other short-term debts  too. All of this information,  provided by Mr S, 
suggested the loans were  affordable.  And although there was some relatively recent adverse 
information obtained from a credit check,  I dont think this gave Trusted Quid  enough reason 
to carry out further  checks to verify  what Mr S declared.
I appreciate that Mr S says he was in a debt management plan at the time. But unfortunately 
Trusted Quids credit check didnt reveal  this. I think its quite  possible  some  types of 
informal arrangements  with creditors may not be revealed by a credit  check.  And I also think 
Mr S had the opportunity to declare payments towards this plan on his application.
I dont think simply  asking  Mr S about  his income  and expenditure was proportionate for the 
last two loans.  Although  they were both relatively small, there had been little break in the 
lending since the first loan in August 2012 and loans 5 and 6. In my view, all the loans were 
essentially sequential and this ought  to have led Trusted Quid  to question whether Mr S was 
dependent on them and/or able to repay them sustainably.
So when Mr S asked  for loans 5 and 6, I think Trusted Quid  should have asked him for 
something to substantiate what he was declaring about his income  and expenditure. At this 
point, it had reason  to question whether it had the full picture.  As it didnt  do this, Ive taken 
into account information from Mr S bank  statements.  I think  this information will provide a 
reasonably accurate record of his finances at the time and in turn help me decide  what  
proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Ive seen that in between  January and March 2013  Mr S was paid £1,150-£1,200 a month   
so I think Trusted Quid wouldve learned  that Mr S income was a little lower than he 
declared. 
I think it also wouldve seen that Mr S expenditure was higher than declared. For both 
loans 5 and 6 Mr S had said his total expenditure was £545 a month. But looking at the sort 
of expenditure  Id expect the business  to check (rent, credit commitments, travel,  utilities 
etc.), I think Mr S had expected outgoings of around  £700 in February and £800 in March   
although having said this Mr S March  2013  phone bill seems unusually  high.
Ref: DRN06880383But even using the higher  monthly expenditure figure of £800 and the lowest  monthly income 
figure of £1,150 during  this period, this wouldve still left Mr S with income of around  £350  to 
make the £130  repayment on loans 5 and 6. Even  allowing  for some further margin  of error 
when estimating Mr S outgoings, I dont think the repayments on loans 5 and 6 look 
unaffordable. And so on balance, I dont  think proportionate checks wouldve caused  
Trusted Quid to find the loans  were  unaffordable for him.
I realise this will be disappointing  for Mr S but my decision is that I do not uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Trusted Cash Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0688038