K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains that he was given misleading information when he was arranging  to acquire 
a car through a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  
(VWFS).
Background
Mr F visited the dealership in March 2018  and discussed entering  into a finance agreement 
for a car. He says that he explained at this time that he didnt want  a credit  search  to take 
place because he was in the process of applying for a mortgage.  He says he was told he 
could leave a fully refundable £500 deposit to secure the car and then he could get in touch 
when his mortgage application  was complete  so the credit check could be carried out. 
Mr F says that the deposit was refundable as he was paying it without seeing  the car 
because the car was located a distance  away. However he then found out that the car was 
in a much  closer location so he could have viewed it before paying  the deposit.  
On 26 March, Mr F received calls from the dealership. He says at first he didnt answer  as he 
was at work  but then after receiving several  calls decided not to answer as he began to feel 
under pressure. He says he received  a number of voicemails one of which  said a credit  
check had taken place  and been  accepted so the car was ready  for collection. He then 
received a message saying he would lose his deposit if he didnt  collect the vehicle. Mr F 
went to the dealer and raised  his concerns  about the credit check  and that he had 
experienced some issue with his mortgage application which  meant he may no longer be in 
a situation to get a new car. He says he was told at this point he would lose some  of his 
£500 deposit because the car had been prepared.
Mr F was told he could  change the deal and pay a lower deposit and take the car over a 
longer term. A new deal was agreed  in which he paid a further £1,500  deposit  and had a 
HPA over four years. He says he was told a further credit check  wouldnt be required  but 
then three  checks took place. 
When Mr F went to collect the car he says he realised  that the asset protection he had been 
sold wasnt an insurance policy which would allow  him to drive the car as he had thought  
and he had to change his insurance  policy to fully comprehensive from third party. He says 
he then checked  the website and found  that his car would  have come with a period of free 
insurance cover which meant  he didnt  have to upgrade his insurance  straight  away.  
Following the investigation,  Mr F also said that the MOT on the car didnt run for long enough  
and that in September 2018,  he was stopped by the police for not having a valid MOT.
VWFS says that Mr F raised his complaint a number of months after acquisition.  It says that 
had he not wished to enter in the HPA and had instead wanted his £500  deposit refunded  he 
would have raised this at the time and not paid a further £1,500  deposit  and signed the HPA. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that had Mr F wanted his deposit 
refunded he could have raised  this before he signed the HPA and paid a further £1,500  
deposit. He said that Mr F had signed  the General  Proposal Form  which set out that credit 
searches may take place and that he couldnt  say the dealership had done anything  wrong  
by not offering a complementary service.  In regard to the asset protection he said that Mr F 
had ticked the box next to asset  protector on the Statement of Demands and Needs. That 
Ref: DRN02390402said he noted that dealership had said Mr F could cancel this and it would  refund the 
difference. I also offered £250  as a gesture of goodwill which  he thought  reasonable.
In regard to the MOT,  our investigator  said this was due after Mr F had taken possession of 
the car and so was his responsibility.
Mr F didnt  accept our investigators view.  He raised further issues  about  his details being 
amended without his authority and that he felt he had to pay the additional £1,500 deposit 
and enter  into the new agreement  otherwise he would have lost his initial  £500  deposit. He 
also raised affordability issues.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has raised  a number of concerns mainly  regarding the process he went  though  when 
setting up a HPA to acquire a car. I have considered all the information  provided and set out 
my conclusions. 
As this complaint  is against VWFS  I have considered the issues it can be held responsible 
for. So while I can understand  why Mr F wasnt happy with certain  aspects the service he 
received from the dealer I cant say that VWFS is responsible for this. VWFS  can be held 
liable however if the dealer made any misrepresentation when setting up the HPA.
Initial £500 deposit
The deposit  Mr F paid was to secure  a car. He says that he was told this was fully 
refundable. It is not unusual that a dealership  will ask for a deposit in situations like Mr Fs 
where the car has to be brought from another location. I note Mr Fs comments about the 
dealership giving incorrect information  about  the location but I do not find that this changes  
my thoughts in regard  to the issue with the deposit.
Mr F didnt  raise any concerns about  paying the deposit at the time and I find it reasonable to 
accept that he was interested in the car or he wouldnt have paid this. There was then the 
issue regarding the credit searches (which I will address later)  and Mr F says he asked 
about his deposit being refunded. According to Mr F he was told that some of the deposit  
would be retained  due to the costs involved in preparing the car. I do not find this 
unreasonable. It seems  the dealership hasnt said the deposit  wouldnt be refunded but there 
would be a deduction for costs. In the event a deduction was made  I would expect there to 
be some  evidence provided of the costs but in principle I dont find that the dealership  was 
being unreasonable.
The deposit  wasnt  refunded and instead Mr F chose to go ahead  with a HPA which  involved 
a larger  deposit.  He therefore paid a further £1,500 and the total deposit of £2,000 is 
recorded in the HPA.  Therefore Mr F has had the benefit of the initial  £500  deposit. Had 
Mr F wanted his deposit back I think it reasonable to accept he wouldnt have paid a further 
amount and entered into the new HPA. 
Credit searches
Ref: DRN02390403Mr F says he made it clear to the dealership that he didnt want  any credit  searches carried  
out until after his mortgage application had been  processed. I can understand Mr Fs 
concerns in regard  to this, however I also find it unusual  that he would have paid a deposit to 
secure a car if he hadnt wanted  to enter  into the acquisition at that time.
I can see from the information provided that following Mr Fs visit to the dealership,  it tried to 
contact him on several occasions about the car and then confirmed  that a credit  search had 
been successful.  I understand Mr Fs concerns about the amount of calls but given he had 
paid a deposit to secure  a car I would have thought he would have expected  contact to have 
been made about the next steps.  
I appreciate Mr Fs comments about issues with his mortgage application but based on the 
evidence I have seen,  I dont find I can say that this was due to the credit search carried  out. 
I also note that Mr F had signed  the General Purpose Proposal Form which  set out that 
credit searches may take place. 
When Mr F came to agree  a finance  package he was provided with three different options. 
At this stage I find that Mr F would have been aware that searches would be required in 
order to proceed with the finance.
On balance, I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold this part of Mr Fs complaint.
Asset protection
Mr F has said that he was sold asset  protection believing  it to be something it wasnt. I have 
looked through the documents provided and can see that the Statement of Demands and 
Needs has been  completed and the asset  protection  box has been ticked. Mr F signed this 
document. He has also signed the document setting  out the details of the asset  protection.  
Based on this I do not find I can say this was mis-sold.  I understand that action has been 
taken in regard  to resolving this issue.
MOT
Mr F raised  concerns about the length  of MOT on the car. I have looked at the details and 
can see that the MOT expired in August 2018. This was a number of months after Mr F had 
acquired the car. It was his responsibility to ensure the car had a valid MOT and this 
information is readily available. Therefore I dont find that this is an issue  VWFS is 
responsible for.
Changes to details  on the agreement and affordability
Following our adjudicators view,  Mr F raised  a concern that the information  about how long 
he had been with his current employer was changed on his form. He has also mentioned the 
affordability of the HPA.  Our adjudicator said that the change  noted by Mr F didnt change 
his view on the complaint  and based on what I have seen I would agree with this. 
In regard to the issue  of affordability,  this didnt form part of the original  complaint  that was 
investigated and so I do not find that I can comment on this further. If Mr F wishes to 
complain that the HPA wasnt affordable  when  it was set up, he would need to complain to 
VWFS about this issue and give it the opportunity to look into it. If he isnt satisfied with 
VWFS response, he may then be able to bring  this new issue  to our service
Ref: DRN02390404My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019. 
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0239040