K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains as agent for the director of a limited  company, H, that AIG Europe Limited 
wont pay a commercial insurance claim for theft from Hs premises.
background
In May 2018  two thefts of goods took place  from Hs premises. On reviewing CCTV footage 
it was found that the thief had gained entry by using a master  code (known  only to the 
Landlord) and a key. The thief had been  able to switch off the alarm and then reset it on 
leaving, H made a claim to AIG. But AIG declined to pay the claim as the policy  had an 
exclusion for theft other than by entry or exit to the building  by forcible and violent means. 
Mr Q complained to AIG that its refusal to pay the clam was unfair, and that he thought that 
the entry to the premises was by forcible  and violent  means. AIG maintained its refusal  to 
pay but paid £75 as it failed to acknowledge two complaint letters.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that AIG had acted reasonably  and that it 
had shown that the theft didnt involve entry or exit by forcible and violent means.  
Mr Q didnt agree and the matter has been  passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy concerned is a commercial one, suitable  for shop businesses. Among the general 
exclusions in the policy is the following:
"theft other than theft Involving  entry  to or exit from a building  by forcible and violent means 
or attempt  thereat."
As its an exclusion, its for the insurer to show that it applies ie that the theft didnt involve  
entry or exit by forcible and violent means.  I should point out that it has to be both forcible  
and violent. Here the CCTV footage shows that the thief used a key and entered using a 
master code both to disable and reset the alarm  system. Using a key in itself we do regard 
as forcible but we dont consider it to be violent, and there is legal  authority for this. Mr Q 
doesnt know how the thief obtained  the code  but the evidence shows that the thief used it 
merely by entering it on the keypad. 
I dont think that either the use of the key or the code were  violent  there is no evidence  that 
the thief either forced the lock or tampered  with the alarm system. It seems most likely  to me 
that the thief obtained both the key and the code prior to entering the premises.
I have considered whether it was fair for the insurer to rely on the exclusion.  This is a very 
common exclusion in both commercial  amd home insurance policies. In light of that we dont 
regard it as being the type of exclusion that needs  to be drawn to the consumers attention.
Mr Q suggests  that the exclusion  itself is an unfair contract term. I dont think  it is. Insurers 
are entitled  to limit their liability as far as theft/burglary claims are concerned.
Ref: DRN04115892I've noted  that AIG has paid £75 compensation, essentially for the way it handled the 
complaint. How an insurer carries out its complaints procedures  isnt a regulated activity that 
falls under our powers to deal with. So I cant consider this any further.
Overall I think  AIG has fairly shown that the exclusion for theft applies in this case  and it has 
acted fairly  in applying it.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q on behalf of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 24 August  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0411589