K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) paid only part of 
their cancellation  claim  under their travel insurance policy.
My references to ERV include its agent. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended to uphold the complaint, and I set out an extract  from my 
decision here:
Mr and Mrs W both told ERV about  their medical  conditions, before renewing their existing 
annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in November 2017.
In December 2017 Mrs W was travelling abroad when her replacement  hip joint suddenly 
dislocated. She was treated and ERV paid her claim for cutting her trip short  and for 
returning to the UK. 
A few weeks  later Mrs W called ERV to tell it about the change in her health - the dislocation 
of her hip. She answered some medical questions,  and explained that shed had an x-ray but 
was waiting for the results of scans.  She didnt  expect to have surgery  but she wanted to be 
sure shed be covered  for a pre-booked holiday in March 2018.
ERV said it wouldnt cover Mrs W for any of her medical conditions until the outcome of her 
tests were known. Mrs W (who is medically trained herself)  felt confident  shed be able to 
travel, and said shed  call back when shed had the results of the further tests. 
Mrs W had further  scans  in January 2018. Unfortunately  Mr W then had some heart issues,  
and on 21 February 2018  he was advised not to travel on their March  2018 holiday. They 
cancelled the holiday and made  a claim to ERV. Mrs W says that the GP advised her to put 
in a claim for her hip, as it was advisable for her not to travel  too until all the tests were  
completed and ERV already had details of her hip dislocation. 
ERV paid the claim, but only for the cancellation costs  that would have applied if theyd 
cancelled the holiday on 29 December 2017,  which was the date Mrs W had called ERV to 
discuss her hip dislocation.  ERV said it had told Mrs W she wasnt  medically covered under 
the policy on that date. Mr W then put a claim in as theyd cancelled  because of his medical  
issues. But ERV wouldnt pay saying the cause of the claim was Mrs Ws hip problem. 
Mr and Mrs W came to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said Mrs W hadnt had any need to cancel in 
December 2017,  and had fully expected to be fit to travel on her holiday.  So he said ERV 
should pay the balance of the claim plus 8% simple  interest. ERV didnt agree. It had been 
clear that Mrs W was no longer medically covered by the policy so it was correct  that it had 
paid the cancellation costs from the date Mrs W had called.  The complaints come to me for 
review. 
Ref: DRN01470932my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Im likely to uphold  it. 
Under the policy terms Mrs W was required to call ERV to tell it about  specific  changes in 
her health  during the policy year. Its our longstanding approach that an insurer shouldnt  
withdraw medical cover under the policy unless the change in health represents a significant  
change in risk to it. 
In this case, I think Mrs Ws change in health  did represent a significant  change in risk. 
Mrs Ws hip replacement  had suddenly dislocated when she made a small sideways 
movement. ERV had just paid a curtailment  claim and the costs  of cutting short  her holiday. 
I appreciate Mrs W thought the scan (s) shed  been  referred for were  precautionary.  And she 
says shed been on many  earlier holidays without any problems. She didnt know when she 
called ERV that she would, in fact, need  another surgery which she had in June 2018. But 
I think ERV was entitled to wait until the outcome of tests before deciding  whether it would 
continue to medically insure her. 
Where an insurer does  withdraw cover, we consider it good and reasonable industry practice 
for it to offer to pay the cancellation costs of a holiday  the consumer had already booked. 
Indeed, I see this is something  that is reflected in the ERV policy. It says that if ERV cant 
provide cover (as in this case) then Mrs W could  make a cancellation claim for a pre-booked  
holiday. So in this case Mrs W could  have cancelled the March  2018 holiday and made a 
claim for the cancellation  charge. Alternatively, Mrs W could ask to cancel the policy  and 
have a pro-rata refund of the premium.
Ive listened to the 29 December 2017  call. Mrs W said very clearly she wouldnt travel 
without insurance. But she explained she wanted to wait and see about the outcome of the 
tests. She specifically asked ERV about  whether shed be covered for cancelling the March  
2018 holiday. And I agree with our adjudicator that ERV didnt make it clear enough that 
Mrs W could claim  for cancellation to that date, but that she wouldnt have any ongoing 
cancellation cover  if she cancelled in the future. 
I think ERV should  have explained to Mrs W that as it had withdrawn cover  it would  pay her 
the cancellation costs of the March 2018  holiday that applied  in December 2017. It should  
also have clearly explained that any future cancellation claim would be limited to that 
amount. The cancellation  charge was £380 in December 2017  but increased  sharply  to more 
than £2,000 by February  2018 - the date the holiday was cancelled.  
So I can see why ERV paid Mrs W just £380. But I dont think this is a fair outcome because 
it didnt give her enough information to make an informed decision about what to do. Shes 
since explained she wouldnt have cancelled  the holiday, but if it turned out she couldnt  
travel then she would have transferred her booking into another  relatives name, so Mr W 
could still travel. I think this is a plausible explanation. I dont think  shed have  either 
cancelled the policy or cancelled  the holiday.  
I appreciate the February 2018  claim was submitted for Mrs Ws hip. Mrs W isnt an 
insurance expert and shes  explained why she thought this was the right thing to do. ERV 
paid only £380  (the cancellation charge on 29 December 2017). As Ive said I think that was 
the amount it should have offered to pay on 29 December when it withdrew  medical cover.
Ref: DRN01470933But Mr W, who is also insured under the policy, then made a claim supported by medical 
evidence from his GP. The medical evidence is that he was advised  to have a heart 
procedure and to cancel the holiday on 21 February 2018. 
ERV has said it wont pay the claim submitted for Mr Ws heart  condition  because the 
proximate cause of the cancellation  claim was Mrs Ws hip dislocation.  But I dont agree. 
Mrs W says, and I accept,  that she wouldnt have cancelled the holiday even if ERV had 
explained she wouldnt have  cancellation cover. And I think  ERV should fairly  have 
considered Mr Ws claim following his sudden  unforeseen  illness,  for which he needed 
surgery and was advised not to travel. That was the reason  Mr and Mrs W cancelled  their 
holiday. It seems to me that that claim would have been successful,  based  on the medical 
evidence his GP provided to ERV. 
So I currently think the fair outcome is for ERV to pay Mr and Mrs W the cancellation charge 
for their holiday, less the £380 it has already  paid them. I understand the policy  excess of 
£10 has already been deducted. ERV must add simple interest of 8% per year from the date 
of Mr Ws claim until the date it pays Mr and Mrs W.
responses to my provisional  decision
ERV responded  just to ask some questions  about  Mr Ws medical  condition.  
Mrs W responded to say that her GP had advised  her to cancel (and claim) due to her hip to 
save the expense  of another GPs letter. With the benefit of hindsight they should have 
claimed for Mr W from the outset.  It wasnt until after the general anaesthetic examination at 
the end of March  2018  that it was found her hip had been at the wrong angle since the 
original 2010 surgery. Shed  travelled  without  any problem until the previous claim for the 
dislocation. Since  her successful surgery her hip has been much  better, and now her travel  
insurance isnt weighted because of her hip.
Mrs W also explained that Mr W had had a routine  cardiology appointment near the end of 
January 2018.  His symptoms hadnt changed, but the locum  consultant  decided  to arrange 
for another  angiogram. It was only following the angiogram on 14 February 2018 that the 
blockage was found, and Mr W was told hed need a stent  (which  was done in early April 
2018).
Our adjudicator sent this information about  Mr Ws medical condition  to ERV.  It hasnt 
responded with any additional comments by the given date. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still uphold  this 
complaint for the reasons given in my provisional  decision and here. 
Mrs Ws GP had indicated  on the medical  certificate  that he completed for her claim that hed 
advised her not to travel due to her hip. Ive noted  Mrs Ws comments that the GP suggested 
this to save money on another medical  certificate  for Mr W and Im sure she was doing what  
she thought was the best thing. This doesnt  change  my decision because I still think that 
ERV should have paid the claim for the reasons Ive already given.  In brief,  Mr W had a valid 
claim for holiday  cancellation.
Ref: DRN01470934ERV has asked for further medical  information  about when Mr W first knew  hed need  
medical treatment. It has seen Mrs Ws response, which indicates it wasnt  until mid-
February 2018 that he was advised not to travel following  the results of the routine  
angiogram. ERV hasnt  commented on that evidence,  or given any reason not to pay Mr Ws 
claim. I think  the fair outcome is for it to pay the claim, as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in this decision  and in my earlier  provisional  decision I uphold 
this complaint. Within  28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs W accept my final 
decision I require Europaische  Reiseversicherung AG to pay them  £1,913.36, being  the 
cancellation charge for their March 2018 holiday,  less the £380  that its already paid to them.  
ERV must add simple  interest* of 8% per year to the resulting payment from the date of 
Mr Ws claim to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Amanda Maycock 
ombudsman
*If Europaische Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs W how much  its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0147093