K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) trading as Halifax mis-sold him a personal loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr T took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage in 2001. He paid a monthly amount for the policy.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
BoS shouldve  made  it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve got Mr Ts agreement  to 
buy it. Mr T has said it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a copy  
of Mr Ts loan and PPI application.  The form has all of Mr Ts details and I think  its likely it 
was completed at the meeting. So I think its a reasonable reflection of what Mr T discussed 
with BoS at the time of sale,  even  though  parts of it were completed by BoS.  On the form 
Mr T indicated that he wanted  to buy Personal  Loan Repayments Insurance (the PPI). He 
didnt have to do this if he didnt want the PPI. So I think BoS made it clear  that Mr T didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr T, so it shouldve made sure it was right for him. Mr T says 
he didnt want or need  the PPI. 
Mr Ts loan was a significant,  long-term, financial commitment. If Mr T couldnt work  for a 
long period of time he may have found  this difficult  to pay. As the loan was secured on his 
home, Mr T couldve  potentially lost his property  if he fell into financial difficulties. 
The PPI wouldve paid Mr Ts loan if he couldnt work due to illness, or he lost his job. The 
payment wouldve been in addition  to any employer, or unemployment benefits, he might 
have received if this happened. It couldve provided a payment  for up to12 months if he was 
unemployed and up to 60 months if he couldnt  work  due to illness.   
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr T couldnt afford to make the monthly payments for the PPI 
at the time of sale. And he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover such as pre-existing medical conditions.  So it seems to have been 
right for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. 
Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale.  Its possible the information BoS 
gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But as I said earlier, based on 
what I know about Mr Ts circumstances,  it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. 
Ref: DRN06930222So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. And I dont think  Mr Ts 
lost out due to anything  that BoS mightve done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0693022