K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about how Aviva  Insurance Limited handled a claim under her legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents  and claims handlers.  
background
In mid-November 2018, Mrs H submitted a claim to Aviva for legal expenses  insurance cover 
to pursue a dispute with her employer.  
When doing so she referred to three  emails which she said contained supporting documents. 
But Aviva said they only received  two. Because of this Aviva  requested  the missing 
information. Mrs H responded with a further  two emails containing documents.  But she 
explained there were  50 more documents related  to her dispute. 
In early December 2018, Aviva asked for a chronology/diary of events to assist  with the 
assessment of Mrs Hs claim.  Mrs H provided this but said there  were  further incidents of 
lesser importance she could tell them about, should  they require more evidence  of 
mistreatment by her employer.
Aviva considered things.  They said that it appeared the series  of events giving rise to the 
claim Mrs H had made, started in February 2018. As Mrs Hs legal expenses policy wasnt  
taken out until July 2018, Aviva said the claim wasnt covered in accordance with the policy 
terms. Because of this they declined cover  and suggested Mrs H contact her previous legal 
expenses insurer who wouldve been on cover  in February 2018.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said her employment  had been terminated in September  2018 so 
Aviva should  apply this date to her claim because it represented the date shed suffered a 
loss. In addition,  she said her employer was relying  on events that took place in July 2018. 
So, Aviva should  apply that date in the alternative.  She also said shed been in touch with 
her previous  legal expenses insurer,  and theyd agreed Aviva  were the correct insurers  to 
consider the claim. 
In mid-December 2018, whilst awaiting a response from Aviva, Mrs H advised  that if the 
decision was not to assist with her claim,  she wanted a copy of Avivas complaints 
procedure. Aviva responded  saying they were  considering their position. They  requested a 
copy of the letter from Mrs Hs previous insurers in which  they declined the claim. Mrs H 
refused to provide this. 
In January 2019, Aviva asked Mrs H to provide all information relating  to the warning  she 
said shed received from her employer  in February 2018. They also asked her to provide a 
copy of her previous  insurers letter of rejection  again. They told Mrs H she had a duty to co-
operate with them under the policy terms so they could progress her claim. 
Later that month, Mrs H provided a copy of the rejection letter. Aviva responded saying it 
was illegible and couldnt be read.  Another copy was sent by Mrs H, but Aviva  said they 
were still unable to read it. They asked that Mrs H either scan or post the letter. Mrs H did 
this.
Ref: DRN05068832Aviva then asked Mrs H for clarity around  some  inconsistencies within the previous insurers 
rejection letter compared to what Mrs H had said the previous insurer told her. In early 
February 2019, Mrs H clarified  that shed been told on the phone by her previous insurers 
that the date of her loss was September  2018,  so no cover  was in place. She went on to say 
that theyd followed  that phone call up with the letter theyd sent and which  shed then 
provided to Aviva.
That month, Aviva instructed a barrister to carry out an assessment of the merits of Mrs Hs 
employment dispute to determine whether  the claim had reasonable prospects of success 
and was proportionate to pursue. Aviva  also asked the barrister  to comment  on whether Mrs 
H should have  been reasonably aware of a claim prior to July 2018,  which  is when her policy 
began. 
The opinion from the barrister noted  that many of Mrs Hs documents  were difficult to read 
and there  appeared to be important information  missing, such as the Employment Tribunal 
documents. In light of these deficiencies, he said his opinion  should be considered  as 
provisional. But he also said the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success, which 
he estimated to be in the region of 40%. This was below the threshold required by the policy 
for Aviva to cover the claim. In addition to this the barrister said he was satisfied the claim 
arose after the policy started and within Avivas policy  period.  
Following the barristers opinion, Mrs H provided further information to Aviva which  they sent 
to the barrister so that he could reconsider the merits of her claim.  After doing so the 
barrister said his provisional view remained unchanged and that he thought it was more 
likely than not that Mrs Hs claim would fail. As a result of this advice, Aviva declined  Mrs Hs 
claim.  
Following this Mrs H complained. Shes unhappy with:
1.the delays  and general handling  of her claim.  This includes her submission that she 
didnt think the information shed given  Aviva about the other  insurer was inconsistent  
and she found  Avivas request for clarity  upsetting.; 
2.their decision to decline cover.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Aviva had progressed the claim within 
their service  standards. And whilst Avivas requests for further  information  might have 
slowed things down,  they werent unreasonable. She also thought  that cover  had been  fairly 
declined.
Mrs H doesnt agree. So the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  it should be 
upheld. Ive addressed Mrs Hs complaints in turn below.
delays and general claims handling
Ive thought carefully about the timeline  of communications between  the parties and what  
was said by Aviva. Having  done so, Im not persuaded they did anything  wrong  by asking the 
questions they did or that their conduct caused  unnecessary delays.
Ref: DRN05068833Aviva were  entitled to ask for all the information they needed to satisfy themselves that Mrs 
H had a valid claim on the policy that they could take forward. I appreciate that Mrs H feels  
that she didnt  know what information was needed  to allow Aviva  to decide her claim from 
the outset-  so she didnt  provide it all-, but I dont think that means that Aviva did something 
wrong by asking for more. 
The information Mrs H provided  was on a piecemeal basis  so on some occasions it became 
necessary for Aviva to question things.  And Mrs H didnt provide  all the information  relevant 
to her claim  from the outset; shed referred to a further 50 documents  being  available which 
she hadnt sent, nor did she provide all the details  of the events surrounding her claim or a 
chronology when Aviva asked for this. In addition she didnt  provide  the letter Aviva had 
asked for from her previous insurer. Had she done  so at an earlier  stage, I think  Aviva  
wouldve been better able to assess her claim sooner. So I dont think  the time it took them  
to consider everything in light of how things unfolded was unfair. 
Mrs H says she initially raised a complaint in mid-December 2018  when  she asked for a 
copy of the complaints procedure and that Aviva didnt deal with this in a timely  manner.  I 
dont agree. At that time Mrs H said that if Aviva  thought her claim should be declined, they 
should provide  her with details of their complaints procedure. Aviva hadnt  declined her claim 
at this time- rather they were considering cover in light of the information  Mrs H had given 
them. So I dont think it was necessary for them to provide her with a copy of their 
complaints procedure. 
Ive also thought about Mrs Hs assertion that the information she provided about her 
previous insurer was clear  and the fact that she was upset by Aviva  questioning  this. I 
understand why she might be upset about Aviva  asking for more  information on this point-  
particularly because she wanted things to be dealt with more  quickly.  But I also think it was 
important for Aviva  to understand  precisely  what her previous insurer had said so they could 
look into things for her. And although I appreciate that Mrs H might not have intended to 
provide inconsistent information, I do think that what shed told Aviva  in the first instance 
wasnt entirely clear, when read in conjunction  with the insurers letter. She was later able to 
clarify things, which Aviva  didnt disbelieve. Rather they asked the barrister  to provide an 
advice on when the events that gave rise to the claim started. I think that was fair, given the 
difficulties they had in assessing the claim. 
decision to decline cover
Its common for legal  expenses insurance policies to require any claim to have a more  likely 
than not chance of being successful. Mrs Hs policy is no exception. We dont think thats 
unfair. We wouldnt expect an insurer to fund a legal  action that a prudent  consumer wouldnt  
pursue themselves. 
And Id expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has a 
reasonable chance of winning. Its long been our approach that an insurer is entitled  to rely 
on that advice,  unless its obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes.  Such advice must 
be from a suitably qualified legal professional, bee properly reasoned and contain enough 
detail for an insurer to allow make a decision  on cover. Im satisfied Aviva did this. The 
barrister provided two reasoned opinions setting out why Mrs Hs claim doesnt meet  the 
policy terms. There was nothing in those opinions that suggested they were obviously wrong 
or that Aviva shouldnt  be entitled to rely on them. And Mrs H didnt obtain  another  legal 
Ref: DRN05068834opinion of equal standing to the contrary,  so I dont think Aviva did anything wrong when 
declining cover.
I know Mrs H went on to settle  her claim against her former employer. But this doesnt mean 
her claim enjoyed  reasonable  prospects  of success when  it was assessed by the barrister  
Aviva instructed. Many legal actions settle  out of court for a variety  of reasons. And we 
wouldnt expect an insurer to cover  a claim in hindsight once the outcome of that claim is 
known. Aviva considered  the claim based on the information they had at the time and in 
reliance on the legal advice. I think this was fair so I wont be asking them  to do anything 
further, including reimburse the legal costs Mrs H says she incurred in settling her claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint  against  Aviva Insurance Limited.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0506883