K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991 with a 
mortgage. Mr E says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr E has provided much from the point of sale. Due to the time thats  
passed since the mortgage and MPPI  were  sold I dont  think  this is unreasonable, these 
events happened  over 27 years ago. Where there  isnt much evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what  both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I 
think most likely  happened.  
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Halifax didnt make  Mr E aware  the PPI was 
optional. Considering how long ago the sale was, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be 
able to uphold  the complaint on this point. So having considered all the submissions  I have 
received in this case, I think its more likely that Halifax wouldve made Mr E aware that the 
PPI was optional  and that he chose  to take it.
 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr E so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover  and he seems to 
have had a need for the cover. I understand that Mr E told us he had good sick pay initially, 
but I note this dropped significantly after six months. 
The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim.  And it 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr E may have  been  entitled to, and 
potentially for longer  than Mr E would have  received full pay from his employer. And the 
policy would have paid out if Mr E lost his job, when his sick pay wouldnt have been 
available to him as a support. Mr E has said that he had some savings. But the policy would 
have allowed him to retain these or use them to cover any other  outgoings at what would 
have been a difficult time. So, considering all of this, and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured  on his home, I think  Mr E couldve found the 
policy useful.
The policy  cost appears  to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr E about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. So I dont  
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr E has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN05435302I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mr E paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr E back some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr E now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 Febraury  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0543530