K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the response  by Barclays Bank UK PLC when he informed it he was 
in financial difficulty.
background
Mr R said that he got into financial  difficulty in 2013, and told Barclays  about it. But Barclays  
had not offered any support and just wanted the account closed. He said he couldnt afford 
the repayments Barclays wanted and that hed been  passed back  and forwards  between the 
bank and a debt collection agency.
When Mr R complained Barclays  said that he hadnt  made any payments even  after a 
repayment plan had been agreed. So it had then cancelled  his banking facilities,  and later 
passed the account to a debt collection agency. But, completely separately from his 
complaint,   it sent another letter  saying  it was refunding over £300 in interest  and charges, 
as a review of its procedures had identified that it hadnt been meeting its expected 
standards for dealing with customers who were over their credit  limit.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint was not upheld. She said that she thought 
Barclays had tried to be helpful by setting up a repayment plan, but that failed and Mr R 
didnt respond  to Barclays attempts to contact  him about it. She didnt think Barclays  had 
done anything  wrong. 
Mr R disagreed. He said Barclays hadnt contacted him, which  was why he hadnt paid 
anything. He said hed only heard about  the debt from the debt collection agency. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the records of the account I can see that Mr R had been using all or most of his £1,500 
overdraft limit at least since 2012.  But from September  2012  his account started regularly 
going over the limit, with Mr R occasionally making  a payment which  took it just under the 
limit for a short period, before exceeding the limit again. Comparing Barclays  notes with the 
payments on the account, it looks as though most  of the payments in 2012 and 2013 
followed letters sent by Barclays about  Mr R exceeding the limit. The records  indicate that 
Barclays contacted  Mr R again about  the account  in February 2014  and he then made 
payments in February and March. It doesnt  appear from what was happening that Barclays 
just wanted to close the account, but simply for Mr R to keep within the agreed overdraft 
limit. It wouldnt have  taken large  regular  payments  to do that. 
But Mr R didnt make  any further  payments and the account was over the limit again by May 
2014. I have seen records showing Barclays spoke with Mr R on the phone  more than once 
in July, before sending  a letter (which I have seen) confirming arrangements made  then to 
reduce the balance  each month. The balance at the time was about  £1,554,  and the plan 
was that Mr R would get back to the agreed limit of £1,500 by January 2015.
That seems  to me to have  been a reasonable plan in all the circumstances, even allowing for 
the fact that (as the letter pointed out) Mr R would need to cover  the charges  he would incur 
as well as paying  off the extra debt.  I havent seen anything to confirm that Mr R had told 
Ref: DRN08220202Barclays about any specific financial or health  problem. But in any event this plan allowed Mr 
R to keep the agreed overdraft and only required him to reduce it very gradually  over six 
months. I know  Mr R has said he didnt hear from Barclays,  but that letter  is correctly  
addressed.
Mr R didnt make any further payments to the account. Barclays records show  that it sent 
various letters and texts, before ultimately  withdrawing banking facilities in November 2014. 
By then the account balance was over £1,760.  I know Mr R had said at one point  that he 
didnt get any communication  from Barclays about  the debt. But Barclays seems to have 
been using the correct  phone numbers and address for the attempts to contact Mr R. And he 
did know what his overdraft limit was and would have had access to bank statements. So I 
think he would have  known that he was over the agreed limit and needed to be paying 
something into the account  to get back to that limit. 
Mr R has also referred  in general terms to problems  since  2014. I arranged to get 
clarification about  what  these were. I have  thought  carefully about everything  he said and will 
make specific comment on some  key points. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays  to 
pass his debt on to debt collectors after he failed  to stick to the repayment plan. And interest 
and charges were  stopped in 2014  when banking facilities  were  withdrawn. Although  Mr R 
has said he spent hours on the phone to Barclays and wanted the cost of calls refunded, he 
had previously complained about  lack of communication with them. Overall, the further 
information hasnt  changed my view on his complaint.
Because of Barclays own concerns about possible failures in its systems in 2014, it has 
already refunded to Mr Rs account all the interest  and charges from February to November  
2014. So even  if I thought  there was some  fault in the way Barclays dealt with Mr Rs 
account in 2014  (and  I havent seen  any clear evidence of that), I wouldnt have expected  it 
to do more than it has done already. Mr R did borrow  the original £1,500, and by taking the 
account agreed to terms which included certain  charges, especially when he was over the 
agreed limit. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to expect Barclays  to 
reduce the debt on the account further or pay him any compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2018.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0822020