K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained that Covea Insurance Plc hasn't settled a claim  she made on her 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
background
Mrs S van was stolen in June 2018. The police recovered it. It was damaged and Covea 
deemed it a total loss. Covea hasn't settled Mrs S claim  because  the police haven't  yet 
provided a report on the theft. Mrs S brought her complaint about that to us. Our adjudicator  
didn't think  Covea had dealt with Mrs S fairly. So she said it should appoint  investigators to 
look at the claim, make  a decision on it and pay Mrs S £150  compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 September 2019. For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.   
Mrs S van was stolen in June 2018 a couple of weeks  after shed bought it. And she 
reported the theft to Covea promptly. Its usual for an insurer  like Covea to want  to be 
satisfied that an event leading to a claim,  in this case a theft, has taken place as its 
policyholder said it had. And if it fairly  concluded  that wasn't the case  it may reasonably  
decline to pay the claim.  However, it has to have reasonable grounds  in line with the policy  
terms in order to be able to do so. But in this case Covea  hasn't made  any sort of decision to 
settle the claim.
I can see Covea has some concerns  about exactly how the theft took place. And it's been 
waiting for a police  report before deciding the claim.  But the theft took place around 
14 months ago and the police still haven't provided  their report  and haven't  given  any 
indication when they might do so. And while I can see why Covea would find that report 
useful I don't think it should  be the sole deciding factor  on whether or not it pays  Mrs S 
claim. 
At the outset, and shortly after it had concerns about the nature  of the theft Covea could 
have instructed its own investigators  to look into the matter. They could have taken  any 
actions they felt necessary in order to form their own opinions  on how the theft took place. 
Those actions might  have  included  talking to the vans previous owners and the police 
investigating the matter. But Covea did very little and focused  on waiting for a police  report. 
And it seems that without  that report it's not prepared to make a decision on whether or not 
to pay Mrs S claim. I don't think thats fair.
Its for Mrs S to show that she has a claim under the policy. And I think shes done that. She 
told Covea that the police had informed her the van had been stolen and damaged following 
a theft. And thats something  her policy covers.
Mrs S policy  also excludes certain events.  For example, the policy  wouldn't cover any 
accident damage that happened if Mrs S had allowed someone not covered by the policy to 
drive it. So if Mrs S had allowed someone else to drive the van, and theyd had an accident 
and damaged it, then thats not something Covea would be responsible for. But it would be 
for Covea  to show that such an exclusion  applies.
Ref: DRN09177472In this case the police said that the van was found with a key in it. And I can understand that 
Covea might have concerns that Mrs S could have given someone  the key whos  then 
crashed the van. So I can understand it would want to investigate  that. But Mrs S has 
explained that she was only given one key when she bought the van and she still had that 
key after it was stolen.  And Covea hasn't provided any evidence that Mrs S gave  the other 
key to someone else or used it herself. Neither has it shown that Mrs S had two keys from 
the outset and didn't look after the other one. 
To date, over 14 months  later, Covea still hasn't provided any evidence, beyond  its 
suspicions, that the van wasn't stolen or any policy exclusion applies. And I don't think  its 
reasonable for it to continue to decline to pay what otherwise appears to be a valid claim 
simply because the police haven't provided  a report. So in the absence  of any compelling 
evidence that a policy exclusion applies that would make it reasonable for Covea to decline 
to pay the claim I think Covea should pay it. It should add simple interest to its settlement at 
a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mrs S claim to the date it makes payment. And, to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  Mrs S has experienced because of the delays in it 
doing so and her lack of use of the van, I think it should pay her £750 compensation. 
developments
Mrs S accepted my provisional decision; Covea  didn't. It said it wasn't clear whether I was 
aware the police  were  still conducting  an active investigation and that is why theyre not in a 
position to provide their report. It also said there was no evidence  of damage to the van 
caused by forced entry  but it had suffered accident related damage.  It said that the policy 
had a number  of exclusions that might  apply, for example: if the driver  was driving under the 
influence of drink or drugs; if Mrs S had allowed someone known to her to drive the van; if 
Mrs S hadnt  safeguarded the van by, for instance,  leaving doors and windows open. It said 
it couldn't know if one of those applied until the police had finished their investigation.
Covea added that it wasn't  in  a position to investigate  the claim itself as there was an active  
police investigation.  It said that if it had instructed an investigator  that could have interfered 
with the police investigation. It repeated that until the police investigation was finished  it 
couldn't make an informed decision  about  the claim.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Coveas reply to my provisional  decision hasn't  persuaded me that it has legitimate grounds 
to continue to refuse  to settle Mrs S claim.  I can confirm I was aware that there  was an 
ongoing police investigation. But I dont accept Coveas argument that it couldn't  investigate  
the matter itself because of that. Its not unusual or uncommon for insurers to conduct their 
own investigations into the circumstances of a claim,  while a police investigation is also 
ongoing. And I havent seen any evidence that the police asked Covea not to investigate the 
matter for fear that investigation could interfere with their own investigation.  So I think  Covea 
could have investigated the matter  itself and reached its own conclusions about the validity  
of the claim without the polices conclusions.
And Covea  still hasn't  provided any compelling  evidence that the claim isn't valid. It said that 
the van showed no signs of forced entry. But it also said that the van was found with a key. 
And in those circumstances, where  the thief had a key they wouldn't  need to force entry. 
Ref: DRN09177473Also Covea has still failed  to show that any of the policy  exclusions apply. And I don't think 
its fair that it should continue to refuse to settle  the claim on the basis  of what  are suspicions 
alone, especially  where a significant  amount  of time has passed and its done very little to 
investigate the matter itself to find out whether those suspicions are supported  by evidence.
In those circumstances I think its reasonable that Covea should  pay Mrs S claim for the 
theft of her van. It should  add simple  interest  to its settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date of Mrs S claim to the date it makes payment. And, to recognise  the distress  and 
inconvenience Mrs S has experienced  I think it should pay her £750 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to:
 Pay Mrs S claim for the theft of her van. It should add simple interest to the 
settlement at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mrs S claim  to the date it makes  
payment.1
 Pay Mrs S £750 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mrs S has accepted  my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0917747