K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  about  Calpe Insurance  Company Limiteds (Calpe) decision to settle 
the third party  insurers  (TPI) claim.
All references to Calpe include the agents it appointed to handle  the claim.
background
Miss A took out an motor  insurance policy, underwritten  by Calpe, in July 2017. 
Unfortunately, Miss A was involved in a car accident in April 2018.
Due to the accident circumstances, Miss A was held liable. The liability  is not disputed.  So, 
Calpe were responsible  for the TPIs repair costs  and hire charges which  came  to £5,262,03. 
Miss A held an All Sections Excess policy, which meant an excess  was applicable for any 
claim. So, Calpe wrote to Miss A to recover her £3,000 excess.
Miss A was unhappy  with the amount Calpe  agreed  to settle the claim for. She said the 
accident was very low impact and couldnt  have caused the damage  that had been repaired.  
So, she thought  the TPI were  bringing a fraudulent claim. Because  of this, she didnt think  
Calpe had acted  in her best interests and didnt want to pay the excess  amount.
Calpe responded saying  they acted in line with the terms  of the policy to settle the claim. 
They felt they didnt have reasonable prospects of defending the third party claim if it was 
challenged and taken  to court. They said they reviewed all the costs  and decided  they were 
reasonable before settling with the TPI. So, the excess remained payable. Miss A remained 
unhappy with this so she referred her complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. They  thought Calpe had 
reasonably considered the TPI costs and been  fair when  settling  the claim. So, they didnt 
think Calpe  needed  to take any further  action. Miss A disagreed with this view and said she 
was in the process of obtaining  third party quotes  for the same  repair  to show  it was 
overpriced. This information  hasnt been provided. As Miss A disagreed, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
When deciding this complaint, Ive looked at whether  Calpe handled the claim fairly. To do 
this, Id expect them  to review the costs submitted by the TPI and challenge them  where 
they seem  to be unfair.
Although Miss A hasnt disputed the hire costs submitted  by the TPI, Ive included them as 
they contribute to the overall costs Calpe paid.  Ive seen the TPI initially  invoiced for a total 
amount of £4,076.52. Calpe settled the hire aspect of the claim for £2,352.31. So, Calpe 
managed to reduce the hire costs by a significant  amount. I think this shows Calpe reviewed 
the hire costs submitted by the TPI and ensured  any amount they agreed to was reasonable.
Ref: DRN06161402Im aware that Miss As concerns revolve around  the repairs and the costs  of these. Miss A 
made Calpe aware  of her concerns from the beginning of the claim and provided images of 
her own car which she felt showed  the impact of the accident was minimal.
Ive seen Calpe recorded these concerns. They asked the engineer  who assessed Miss As 
car for their opinion on the damage  the TPI was claiming for. This engineer  advised  Calpe to 
ask for images of the insureds car and also an invoice of the repairs that were done. Calpe 
followed this advice and asked the TPI for this information. 
After theyd received  these, their in-house engineer reviewed the images and compared 
them against  the repairs that were  completed. He said the costs  were reasonable. He also 
said theyd have a lot of difficulty in arguing  the accident  didnt  cause all of the damage as 
liability had been  admitted. So, Calpe  continued to settle the repair  aspect of the claim for 
£2,657.72.
Because of this, I think Calpe have reviewed the costs of the repairs and investigated them  
fairly before deciding  to the settle  the claim. I understand  this is frustrating for Miss A as it 
impacts her financially due to the excess the policy included. But, as the costs total more 
than Miss As excess,  she is liable to pay the full excess  amount as its clearly explained in 
the policy terms. 
These terms also reasonably explain that Calpe are able to settle the claim without  Miss As 
agreement in order to keep the claim payment to a minimum. By doing so, it meant the claim 
value Miss A would  have  to declare when renewing  her insurance would be less. Even  so, I 
understand that this will have  been distressing and frustrating experience  for Miss A. But, I 
think theyve acted  fairly in settling  the claim to prevent it escalating to court  as this would 
have increased  the costs.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint about Calpe Insurance  
Company Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0616140