K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that his broker, Brightside Insurance Services Limiteds cancellation  
charges were unfair when he cancelled his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr B bought a car insurance policy  through a broker, Brightside. Two months  later he 
cancelled his policy. 
Brightside charged Mr B a cancellation  fee of £60. It also charged him a commission  
clawback fee of £187.78.
Our adjudicator thought Brightside  hadnt been reasonable. He said that it hadnt explained 
its commission charge before Mr B bought the policy  so Mr B wasnt  able to make an 
informed decision about what  hed have to pay if he cancelled his policy.
Brightside had waived its cancellation fee as a goodwill  gesture. Our adjudicator  
recommended Brightside  waive its commission fee minus the cancellation fee which he 
thought Brightside was reasonably entitled to charge. This fee had been  clearly set out in its 
Terms of Business (TOB). But the adjudicator thought it hadnt set out the amount of 
commission it would charge Mr B and found  this to be unfair.
Brightside didnt  agree. It said it had complied with the relevant rules set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  as it told Mr B it would  charge  a commission  fee on cancellation. So it 
would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
The relevant  section of the Insurance Conduct  of Business sourcebook  by the FCA says (in 
summary) that a business  should  make clear  in good time before a consumer enters into a 
contract with it  any commission fee it charges  and that it is fair, clear and not misleading.
Brightsides TOB says:
"Administration charges
In addition to any premium or charges  applied  by the insurer (which  includes our 
commission for placing your insurance  business), we may apply the following
charges for arranging,  amending and administering your insurance."
"As we are a broker the price that you pay may have commission  or discounts  added 
to the insurers  premium.
"Cancellation after the cooling off period
If you decide to cancel your policy after the 14 day cooling off period we charge a 
cancellation fee and retain our commission in full as well as retain  any fees and
charges that you have  already paid during  the period of insurance."
Ref: DRN08943482We look at what is fair and reasonable as well as keeping in mind the relevant laws and 
regulation. In this case, Mr B couldnt have known from Brightsides TOB how much  the 
commission retention fee Brightside would charge if he cancelled  his policy. I think 
Brightside wasnt clear  enough in their TOB. It therefore follows that I dont think it was fair of 
Brightside to charge  Mr B its commission fee of £187.78 on cancellation.
Brightside waived  its cancellation fee of £60. This was clearly set out in its TOB. So I think 
the fairest outcome  for Mr B is for Brightside to waive the commission fee of £187.78 - £60 
cancellation fee its already waived.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside Insurance Services  
Limited to waive  the commission fee it says Mr B owes  it of £187.78  - £60 cancellation fee its 
already waived. This means the amount Mr B owes on cancellation  is £60  not £187.78.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0894348