K821x#15Complaint
Mr H has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed to process income  
drawdown requests  from his pension plan.
Background
Mr H had a personal pension plan with Aviva, which in January 2018  had a value of around 
£56,297.09. Mr H engaged a financial adviser  to start the drawdown process. He wanted to 
take 25% as tax-free cash and the remainder as two separate  drawdowns. The tax-free  cash  
and first income drawdown  payment was requested in January 2018. Mr H needed the funds  
to put towards  a house purchase.
Aviva was experiencing problems with its platform and couldnt  make the payments when 
requested. So, Mr H complained as it was holding up his house  purchase.  Aviva decided  to 
pre-fund 90% of the payments requested and sent the funds to Mr H on 12 March 2018.  It 
explained this would  be reclaimed from his pension when it could access the funds. 
However, this left Mr H short of funds as he was expecting  100% of the amounts requested.  
He also advised  that the income payment had been  incorrectly taxed at 40%. Mr H said hed 
had to cash in premium bonds to make up the difference and hed been caused a lot of 
trouble trying  to sort things out.
Mr Hs adviser  made the second drawdown  request in April 2018; Mr H intended to use this 
to make an overpayment to his mortgage.  However,  Aviva was still experiencing problems 
with the platform  and appears  to have missed this request. It issued a final response on 
1 May 2018  apologising  for the problems Mr H had encountered, and paid him £600  for the 
distress and inconvenience. Aviva also said it would ensure Mr H wasnt  out of pocket and 
would pay interest as soon as it was able to complete  his requests.
Mr H received two further payments from Aviva  on 29 May 2018,  but these didnt match the 
amounts he was expecting.
Mr H referred  his complaint to our service as he still hadnt received what  he was owed. He 
added that hed had to cash in some shares he held whilst he waited for the remainder of his 
funds, and had since missed a dividend payment. He also sold his premium  bonds  and said 
he was having  to make higher mortgage repayments as he hadnt  been able to reduce his 
mortgage balance  as hed intended.
Aviva issued a second final response  letter in July 2018. It said following Mr Hs first request, 
he ought to have received the funds  by 10 February  2018. It said he shouldve received the 
funds following the second request by 23 April 2018.  It offered interest at base rate + 1% 
from the date the payments ought  to have been received. It also said it would consider 
paying further compensation if hed had to pay more for his mortgage in the meantime. Aviva 
added that only HMRC could determine  if hed been taxed incorrectly.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint. He said it was clear  Aviva had failed to process 
Mr Hs drawdown requests correctly and had caused significant  delays. He said Mr H was 
still owed a large portion of his pension  funds and he required  Aviva to do a full appraisal  of 
the payments  made to Mr H and reclaimed from his pension, to ensure  Mr H received what 
he was owed. He said the value of the payments should reflect  the fund value at the time the 
request was made. The adjudicator thought Aviva should pay interest at a gross  rate of 8% 
Ref: DRN05772442simple from the dates the payments ought to have been made  to Mr H to the date of 
settlement.
The adjudicator also made recommendations in respect of additional tax Mr H had paid as a 
result of Avivas mistakes. He didnt think Aviva  needed to reimburse the fee Mr H had paid 
for the adviser. He also didnt think Aviva needed to compensate him for the missed dividend  
payment as fortunately Mr H had been  able to buy back his shares for a much reduced price. 
The adjudicator thought  Mr H wouldve likely won around £50 if hed kept his premium  bonds 
during this period so recommended Aviva pay him this sum.
The adjudicator thought  Mr H should  receive  total compensation of £1,500 for the trouble 
and upset caused by the delays, so Aviva  should pay Mr H an extra  £900. He also said that 
as a result  of being unable to make the mortgage overpayment,  Mr Hs current term 
assurance policy was inadequate.  So, he thought  Aviva should indemnify him for any 
shortfall if he needed to make a claim or provide  him with a policy to cover the shortfall.
Aviva agreed to carry out the assessment of the payments and pay interest at 8% simple  on 
the drawdown payments from when the funds ought to have been paid to Mr H. It also 
agreed to pay the extra  £900  compensation, but said that this would be offset against sums  
Mr H owed to Aviva as a result of pre-funding  overpayments. It also agreed to pay £50 for 
the premium bonds, and consider Mr Hs additional losses in respect  of his mortgage 
repayments. Aviva said any tax issues that had been caused  by delayed payments  would be 
amended through reporting  to HMRC, which would sort out any issues in respect of incorrect 
tax being paid.
Mr H still thought the adviser  fee should  be refunded. He also thought  the account charges 
after April 2018 should be refunded  and that he should receive  interest and the dividend 
payments on his shares. Mr H also thought it was unreasonable for Aviva  to overset any 
overpayments against his compensation.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me to make a final decision.
I contacted both parties in respect  of the issues they each raised  in response to the 
adjudicators view. I told both parties that I didnt  think Aviva  needed  to compensate  Mr H for 
the adviser fee hed paid. I also said I didnt think Aviva needed to indemnify Mr H for any 
shortfall between his mortgage balance  and his term assurance  if he needed to claim.
I have received both parties replies,  and I am now in a position to issue my final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it. I will 
explain my reasons and how Aviva  should put things right below. As this complaint involves 
several issues, I will address each in turn.
I want to first say that I agree Avivas  service has been extremely poor here. But it isnt the 
role of this service to punish businesses for wrongdoing. Our role is to put things right by 
ensuring that customers arent disadvantaged by the mistakes made  and my aim 
specifically is to put Mr H into the position he wouldve been in (as far as possible) if the 
service I would usually  expect from Aviva had been  provided.
Ref: DRN05772443Income drawdown requests
It isnt in dispute that Aviva hasnt paid Mr H all of his remaining pension  funds. Aviva 
accepted the adjudicators view that it should pay the remaining sums  owed, taking  into 
account the amounts it pre-funded and recovered from Mr Hs pension plan. In assessing  
any loss, the value of each  payment that was due should reflect the fund values at the time 
the original requests were made, with the correct  tax applied at that time.
Aviva accepts the tax-free cash and the first drawdown payment shouldve been  made  to 
Mr H by 10 February 2018. It also accepts the second drawdown payment shouldve  been 
made to Mr H by 23 April 2018. So, Aviva should add 8% simple  interest  to the respective  
payments from the above dates to the date of settlement.
Aviva has told me that in order to ensure this is done correctly,  it needs to reverse the 
crystallisation process that took place in March  2019. This will allow  it to make the 
adjustments required to properly  reconcile  the pre-funded payments with the amounts it has 
already recovered.  It will also need to know how Mr H wants to take the remainder of his 
funds to ensure  he isnt disadvantaged due to the tax payable.
Im not going  to make a finding on the precise sum owed to Mr H. But I expect Aviva to 
provide a full breakdown of the sums previously paid to him and when, what  amounts were  
recovered and when, and the remaining sums  owed. Aviva should also provide a breakdown 
of the interest  payable  on the sum owed. The calculation  should be presented to Mr H in a 
way that can be easily understood  so that he can have  confidence  that the matter has been 
fully resolved.
Tax implications
Mr H has advised that because of the delay in Aviva  making the first payment  to him, and 
because he wasnt able to take the payments in the way he requested, he was taxed at a 
rate of 40% instead of 20%. Mr H received a rebate from HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) 
of £3,382.66 in February  2019 to refund  the extra tax deducted from Avivas payment on 
14 March 2018.  As Aviva  accepts responsibility for the delay, I think it would be reasonable 
for Aviva to add 8% simple interest to this sum from the date the extra tax was deducted  to 
the date it was refunded to Mr H.
Once Aviva  has paid Mr H the remaining sums hes due, this may come to cause him to pay 
an increased amount  of tax in this financial year. But I think  its reasonable to expect Mr H to 
take steps to mitigate that likelihood  as best as he can. And as Ive said above,  Aviva will 
take Mr Hs instruction as to how payments  should be structured  to ensure he isnt 
disadvantaged. If Mr H cant avoid  paying the extra tax this financial year and he isnt able to 
get a rebate  from HMRC, he should provide this evidence  to Aviva for it to consider further.
Ref: DRN05772444Compensation for trouble  and upset
Aviva paid Mr H £600 for the trouble and upset caused by the service  provided. It offered a 
further £400 after the complaint was referred  to our service. Taking everything into account, 
the adjudicator  recommended an extra £500  on top of the £400 offered, bringing the total 
compensation to £1,500. Aviva accepted this but Mr H thought  he should receive a higher 
amount.
I think the extra £900 that Aviva has agreed to pay is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. This is a substantial amount, which I think  reflects the seriousness of the 
mistakes made and the impact on Mr H at such an important time in his life. Mr H says that 
this doesnt reflect the additional  time taken to resolve his complaint since  it was referred to 
our service.  But Mr H will receive  an interest  payment on top of the sums hes owed, which  
will be calculated  to the date of settlement. This compensates him for the time its taken 
Aviva to pay what hes owed. The compensation recommended is for the trouble and upset 
caused by the delays,  rather than the time taken to settle the complaint. And overall, when 
considering Mr Hs whole experience, I think  the total amount of £1,500 is fair.
The adviser fee
Mr H believes  Aviva should  refund the fee he paid to the adviser to complete the drawdown. 
He thought Aviva ought to have let him know in advance the problems it was facing with the 
platform  he says if hed known he wouldnt have engaged an adviser.  He also said he only 
used the adviser  to avoid having to get involved with the process, but he had to because  of 
the problems encountered. Mr H also believes he can recover  this fee from Aviva under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, as Aviva has accepted responsibility for the delays which  
impacted the service  the adviser  was able to provide.
Ive considered this carefully, but I dont  think Aviva needs to pay extra  compensation 
equivalent to the amount paid to the adviser.  I understand that Mr H chose to use an adviser 
to avoid any hassle  or concern in connection with the drawdown requests.  Evidently that 
didnt happen,  so I can fully appreciate why Mr H feels Aviva should  cover this cost.  But 
paying for an adviser doesnt prevent things from going wrong, or prevent customer  input 
being required at all.
I appreciate that Aviva  was most likely  aware it was experiencing difficulties with the platform 
when Mr H engaged  the adviser. But I dont think it could have anticipated how long it would 
take to rectify the issues. And even if it had told Mr H directly that it was experiencing some 
delays at the time he first started looking into taking benefits, Im not persuaded he wouldve 
decided against  engaging  an adviser. With the benefit of hindsight,  its clear Mr H doesnt 
think it was worthwhile using the advisers service. But at the time, the delays were most 
likely expected to be short-lived, so I dont think knowing this wouldve stopped  him from 
using the adviser.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (the Act) affords  customers certain protections, for 
example, if goods  or services arent provided as described. But here the service  was 
provided by the adviser, not Aviva. So, any breach of rights Mr H has through the Act can 
only be claimed against the adviser.  I appreciate the service provided by the adviser was 
impacted by the problems Aviva was experiencing with its platform. But I dont think the Act 
gives Mr H the right to recover the adviser  fee from Aviva.
Ref: DRN05772445Ultimately, Mr H decided to use an adviser,  so although things didnt  go as planned, he 
wouldve always paid a fee for the service the adviser provided.  Its clear  the issues  with the 
platform meant that Mr H didnt escape  the stress and involvement he was hoping to avoid. 
But the correct  way to redress this is to compensate Mr H for the trouble and upset caused 
by the overall  experience, rather than a refund  the adviser fee. The £1,500 offered includes 
the trouble and upset Mr H experienced because the adviser wasnt  able to provide the 
service he was expecting.  And I think this total sum is fair and reasonable for all of the 
issues he experienced.
Shares and premium  bonds
Mr H had to sell some shares and premium bonds  because Aviva paid him less than he was 
expecting, and he needed this money to fund the purchase of his house. Mr H says he 
missed dividend payments on the shares in the interim so he thinks Aviva  should 
compensate him for this.
I note that Mr H sold his shares for £6.14. But when  he was able to, he bought them back 
and it cost him only £2.26 per share. So, fortunately  Mr H hasnt lost out here. Mr H says the 
share price doesnt matter, but I dont agree. Mr H benefitted from the drop in share  price  
when he purchased the shares again,  far in excess of the cost of the dividend  payments. So, 
he will have  excess cash when Aviva makes the final payments. For this reason,  I dont  think  
Aviva should  cover  the cost of the missed dividend payments.
Mr H has asked for 8% interest for the period between  him cashing in his shares and 
premium bonds and when he received the money  from Aviva. But when  Aviva  pays  the 
remaining funds owed  to Mr H he will have funds left over, which  would cover  the extra 
amount he had to commit to the house purchase. Aviva is going to be paying 8% interest  on 
the sums  Mr H ought to have had. So, I think this fairly compensates him for having  to sell 
his shares and premium  bonds.
Mr H sold his premium  bonds in May 2018 and he has provided evidence  showing he bought 
them back  in November  2019. The adjudicator  thought  Mr H was likely  to have received a 
£50 bonus on his premium bonds  between the time he sold them and bought them back.  So, 
he thought Aviva should pay Mr H £50. Aviva  agreed to pay this, and I also think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The mortgage repayments
Mr H says hes paid £260 per month towards  his mortgage since April 2018 instead of a 
reduced sum of £110 per month had he been  able to make the overpayment. He believes 
Aviva should  refund  the difference.
Aviva accepts the second drawdown payment shouldve been made to Mr H by 
23 April 2018. Mr H has consistently  said he intended to make  a lump  sum payment of 
£17,000 towards the balance. So, I think Aviva needs to compensate  Mr H for any extra  
mortgage interest he has paid as a result of the delay in providing  the remaining amount 
owed from his pension.
This will need to be addressed once the final pension payments have been  made and Mr H 
has made the overpayment.  His mortgage provider will need to provide Aviva  with a 
calculation showing the extra interest  Mr H has paid each month, based on if hed made  the 
overpayment and reduced the balance  by £17,000 on 26 April 2018. Ive used this date to 
Ref: DRN05772446allow three working days for the payment received from Aviva to be applied to his mortgage 
balance. Aviva should apply 8% per extra monthly interest payment from the date it was paid 
to the date of settlement.
Mr H has said Aviva simply needs to refund the difference between his mortgage payments 
now and the reduced repayments hed be making if hed been able to make the 
overpayment. But I think the only sum Aviva needs  to refund is the extra  interest he has paid 
on the mortgage as a result of the balance not reducing by £17,000 on 26 April 2018  plus 
interest. Any extra amount above the interest  element built into Mr Hs current mortgage 
repayment isnt refundable  because it has reduced the outstanding  balance on his mortgage.
The term assurance 
The adjudicator said Aviva should  be liable  for any shortfall if the worst were to happen  as a 
result of the current insurance Mr H has being  inadequate to protect his mortgage  balance. 
I dont agree with that approach.
Mr H had an existing policy in place  providing cover of around £11,000. This would have 
been adequate to protect his new mortgage  starting  in April 2018 if hed been able to make 
the overpayment  as planned.  However, I believe he always knew  that if the payment was 
delayed for any reason,  he would be at risk of a shortfall. So, I think  Mr H ought  to have 
mitigated that risk himself by taking  out extra cover so his new mortgage was fully protected. 
If he had done  so, I wouldve expected Aviva to reimburse the additional premiums to 
compensate for the delay in completing the drawdown, which prevented  Mr H from reducing 
the mortgage balance in line with his insurance.  However, Mr H hasnt put any extra  cover  in 
place, so he isnt out of pocket.
Nevertheless, if Mr H does put cover in place from now,  I would  expect Aviva  to reimburse 
the premiums paid until hes able to make  the overpayment. But Mr H has told me he doesnt 
intend to do so.
Offsetting fund owed  against compensation
Aviva previously advised that because of mistakes it made when reconciling pre-funded 
payments, Mr H owes Aviva money. Aviva said it would reduce the compensation payable to 
offset this. But Aviva  has since accepted that it isnt reasonable  to do so. So, it will be 
making payments  of £900 and £50 to Mr H, separately to any payment made in respect of 
the remaining  pension  funds in his pension plan.
Account fees
I can see that Aviva has charged monthly  fees to manage Mr Hs pension  account. Mr H 
believes this is unfair given the account shouldve been closed in April 2018  if it had been 
closed then he wouldnt have paid these fees.  But Aviva has said that because  Mr Hs funds 
remained invested, the interest  he was paid on the balance exceeded the fees paid. This is 
confirmed by the account statement Mr H sent us. As there isnt any loss to Mr H overall, 
I dont think Aviva needs to refund the account  fees.
Ref: DRN05772447My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should:
Pay Mr H the remaining sums owed to him under his pension plan.
Interest should  be added at a gross  rate of 8% simple to the above payments from 
the dates Mr H ought to have received  the payments to the date of settlement.*
Pay Mr H interest at a gross rate of 8% simple on Mr Hs tax rebate from the date the 
tax was deducted to the date the rebate  was received.*
Refund the extra mortgage interest  Mr H has paid as a result  of him being unable  to 
make an overpayment. This should be based  on him having  reduced the balance by 
£17,000 on 26 April 2018 and calculated to the date he is actually able to make the 
overpayment. Aviva should add interest at a gross rate of 8% simple per extra  
monthly interest payment from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.*
Pay Mr H £900 compensation.
Pay Mr H £50 to compensate him for the loss of a premium  bond bonus.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must give Mr H a certificate  showing how much 
tax its taken off if he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0577244