K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Cofunds Limited made  various  mistakes when instructed to transfer 
her portfolio  to another provider, resulting in significant delays and unnecessary  costs.  This 
included wrongly  continuing to pay charges to her advisor. Cofunds  admitted it might have 
failed to give her the correct ID in one call (it didnt have a record  of this call) and offered Mrs 
C £100 in lieu of these. But it rejected most of her complaint points.
background
Mrs C also complained about being  given  incorrect information in January 2019.  Cofunds 
paid her £300 in lieu this, an issue that was dealt with via a separate complaint.
Mrs C said she instructed  her proposed new provider to transfer her ISA to its platform from 
Cofunds on 2 May 2018, shortly before Cofunds  became part of Aegon  on 4 May. She called 
Cofunds twice  to chase up the transfer, on 18 July and 20 August, and was given the wrong  
ISA wrapper ID, which meant the transfer was delayed as her new provider then had the 
wrong details in its transfer  requests.
Additionally, after the migration took place Cofunds  continued to pay service  charges to her 
adviser, which it should not have done.  It then denied  these charges were being paid despite 
statements showing them.  She said shed had to make a lot of calls to try and sort this out 
and the £100 offered doesnt reflect  this, let alone the three  advisor fees paid after the 
migration.
An investigator did not feel her complaint should be upheld, saying:
Hed seen no evidence of Cofunds receiving Mrs Cs transfer request from her 
proposed new provider until 20 July and this request included out of date details
Having listened  to the 18 July call, he didnt agree that Cofunds had provided 
incorrect account details;  rather,  the call handler  provided the new Aegon investor ID 
she would need to quote  and that this matched her account details i.e. was correct
Cofunds received  a further request with the incorrect ID on 29 July, which  was 
rejected for the same reasons
A call handler explained  this on 20 August and said that Mrs Cs new provider had 
been told this was why its transfer  requests had been rejected
Cofunds did not receive a correct transfer  form until 16 October, after which it 
promptly dealt with matters
Cofunds was entitled/required to pay service  charges to Mrs Cs advisor until she 
instructed it to stop; once she made  this request, it did so
One wouldnt expect  Cofunds to assume Mrs C longer want the adviser tied to her 
account without  her expressly saying so
While  it did wrongly tell Mrs C that charges hadnt  been  applied, this isnt enough to 
say it should reimburse  them.  In any case,  the £100 compensation  more  than makes 
up for these given the charges
Mrs C did not agree, reiterating her earlier points and adding:
She still feels Cofunds/Aegon  should not have paid fees to her advisor after the 
migration, particularly  after a complaints  advisor  acknowledged her complaint about  
this issue (saying  she would look into this issue)
She was then wrongly informed that no charges had been taken after the migration
Ref: DRN08482402When she spoke to Cofunds about the delayed transfer and her subsequent call 
about charges  etc, she was never  told that she was required  to formally request that 
ongoing fees to her advisor should be cancelled
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. I am satisfied that he 
dealt fully with Mrs Cs detailed points and agree with his assessment of these. I will 
therefore restrict my comments to the overall  reasons  why I feel Cofounds  compensation  
of £100 (and its separate payment of £300  which concerns an issue Mrs C also refers  to in 
this complaint) is sufficient.
From what  Ive read, I am satisfied that Cofunds  was entitled to levy its own charges until 
migration and did not do so after. Also, that it did cancel Mrs Cs advisors fees after she 
instructed it to do so. I do not agree it should have done this without Mrs Cs explicit 
permission i.e. when  she first indicated she wanted  to move her portfolio to a new business.
Given this, I am satisfied its offer of £300 redress was sufficient for these issues.  It also 
admitted that it could  not be certain  about what was said in one call re the new ID and 
therefore offered  £100 for this issue. That feels about right.
I also do not accept  that it was responsible  for the transfer delays, needing Mrs Cs new 
provider to put her new ID number  on the transfer  form. 
Crucially, my role  and that of this service - is to decide whether a business  has clearly  
done something wrong, not simply whether it might have done something  differently. In this 
context, I am satisfied Cofunds provided  Mrs C with the correct  information regarding why 
her transfer  was delayed  and gave this information  to her new provider. So while  it could, as 
Mrs C argues, have tried to resolve the incorrect ID issue by cross-referencing the 
information about Mrs Cs account  and seeing  if it could resolve the incorrect ID problem, I 
dont believe  it was obliged to do so.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0848240