K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Gain Credit  LLC - trading  as Lending  Stream - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Lending Stream provided to Mr R between      
March 2017 and June 2018.  A summary of Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 13/03/2017 10/10/2017 6 £400.00 £169.60
2 02/05/2017 11/10/2017 6 £460.00 £340.00
3 05/06/2018 outstanding 6 £700.00 £227.01
Mr Rs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there  wasnt anything  in the information Lending  Stream  had asked   
Mr R to provide that should have prompted Lending Stream  to do more  checks. So, the 
adjudicator couldnt say Lending Stream was wrong  to have given the loans  to Mr R.  
Mr R disagreed. He said he was struggling to repay  the loans and was struggling financially. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure     
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN09289212There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. Having done  this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Lending  Streams  checks  
didnt go far enough and it should  have been  aware  that he was struggling financially and 
was behind on his repayments for other  loans.  So, it shouldnt  have lent to him.
Lending Stream has told this service about  the checks it carried  out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It has said it asked  Mr R about  his employment status and he confirmed he 
was employed and had a monthly income of between £1,538 and £1,825. Lending Stream 
also checked Mr Rs normal monthly  living costs. Mr R declared these to be between  £1,000  
and £1,055 a month.  Lending  Stream says it also searched Mr Rs credit file and it has 
provided the results  of its search. There werent  any recent adverse entries like defaults or 
county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out. 
Mr R has also provided a copy of his credit report and these show  that there were some  
defaults which were  applied but these  were after loan 2 so these wouldnt yet have shown up 
on any checks Lending Stream would have  done before it lent to Mr R. And although the 
defaults did happen before Mr R took out loan 3, the last default was added to Mr Rs credit 
report 11 months before he took out his third loan. So, I dont think Lending Stream ought to 
have increased  its checks  before it lent to Mr R again or not lent to him on this basis.   
Mr R borrowed  loans 1 and 2 within just under two months, there was then an eight month  
gap between Mr R repaying loan 2 and taking  out loan 3. I think  it would be reasonable for 
Lending Stream to view this gap as an indication that Mr Rs finances had stabilised after 
whatever had led to him to need  to borrow previously. So, he was very early  on in his 
lending relationship with Lending Stream.  Even though he had to make monthly repayments, 
the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he 
declared to Lending Stream. And there  wasnt anything in the information  Mr R provided at 
the time which would  have given Lending Stream cause for concern, so I think  it was 
reasonable of Lending  Stream  to have relied  on what  Mr R gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact  of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Lending Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending  Stream  did before  
lending the loans went far enough  and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake 
any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mr R declared  to Lending Stream at the time of the loans may not have  
been an accurate  reflection of his financial circumstances,  but I think Lending Stream  was 
entitled to rely on that information.  At this stage  of the lending relationship, and what Lending 
Stream knew about Mr R, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream  to verify the information 
Mr R gave it. This therefore means,  I cant say that Lending Stream  done something wrong 
in lending Mr R these  loans.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Mr R, but I hope  my explanation  will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ref: DRN09289213my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Rs complaint and make  no award against Gain  Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0928921