K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the delay in receiving  the maturity value of his Scottish Widows 
Limited endowment  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in July 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt  minded to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before 
I reached a final decision. 
Scottish Widows  said it had nothing further  to add. And whilst Mr D told our investigator how 
unhappy he was with the outcome he confirmed he had no further information to provide.
Ive reviewed everything carefully and considered the case afresh, but my opinion  hasnt  
changed. Ive reached the same findings  and for the same reasons as I set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense  that I consider the offer of £134 made by Scottish  
Widows Limited  in its final response to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01833902COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D complains about the delay in receiving  the maturity  value of his Scottish Widows Limited  
endowment policy.
background
Mr Ds endowment policy matured  on 8 June 2018. 
On 5 June  2018 Scottish Widows wrote to Mr D saying the policy was assigned  to his mortgage 
lender - who Ill call R. It said Mr D would need  to contact R to ask for a letter of no further interest 
before it could proceed with a claim from Mr D for the maturity  amount. Scottish  Widows  said as it was 
a third party  it wasnt authorised  to request  the information  itself.
On 16 July R wrote  to Scottish Widows asking  that the maturity proceeds be paid directly  into Mr Ds 
loan account.
Mr D phoned Scottish Widows on 23 July for an update and was told Scottish Widows either needed 
a letter of no further interest or new bank details for R. 
Unfortunately Scottish  Widows didnt write  back to R until 15 August,  but in this letter  it explained  what 
it needed. It said it couldnt accept the payment request as payment  needed to be issued directly to R 
as the assignee (rather  than to an account in Mr Ds name). Alternatively  it said if R no longer had an 
interest in the policy it needed to send a letter  of no further interest.
Scottish Widows  sent a further letter to R on 12 September as it hadnt  received a response. 
On 17 September Scottish Widows sent a more detailed  letter  to R explaining that Mr D had asked it 
write again to try to obtain  the appropriate  claim  requirements. It enclosed the previous 
correspondence and explained those didnt meet its claim  requirements and subsequent  letters had 
been unanswered. Scottish Widows explained it needed R to either  claim the maturity proceeds as 
assignee and to provide  bank details  of an account held by R, or to provide a letter of no further 
interest upon which legal ownership  would transfer to Mr D who could them  claim the proceeds 
himself. It said the previous request couldnt be accepted as whilst R was making the claim, it had 
asked the funds  be paid into account held by Mr D.
On 10 October Scottish  Widows received a letter from R, but unfortunately that didnt  meet the claim  
requirements as whilst  it said R had no further interest in the policy  it also gave details of where R 
wanted the funds paid. Scottish Widows replied the same  day to explain that was contradictory  as R 
cant say it has no interest and also ask for payment; Scottish Widows said R needed to clarify which  
it was.
R provided the information Scottish Widows needed on 12 October, and the maturity proceeds were 
sent by CHAPS on 15 October (the next working day).
Mr D complained to Scottish Widows. It apologised  for the delay between  receiving Rs letter of 16 
July and its response on 15 August, and for that delay  it offered £75 compensation plus net interest of 
£59 for those lost days. But it didnt uphold the remainder of the complaint.
Our investigator thought Scottish Widows could have done more  to resolve matters by phoning R 
rather than just writing, as well as responding  sooner  to other  letters. For that she felt a further £75 
compensation was due.
Ref: DRN01833903Scottish Widows  didnt agree and so its been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I should  explain that the role of our service is to resolve  individual complaints  informally. Its not for me 
to challenge a business  on its day-to-day  decision  making  or its wider approach. Thats  the role of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.  So when considering Mr Ds complaint I just have to 
decide whether Scottish Widows did anything wrong in the specific circumstances.
This is simply  about a delay. When Mr Ds policy  matured, payment of the money couldnt be made. 
Quite rightly Scottish Widows  saw that the policy had been  assigned to R, which meant the money  
couldnt be sent to Mr D without R agreeing it had no claim on the policy. Alternatively the money  
could be paid to an account held by R. This is because legally R (not Mr D) was the party that had the 
right to claim under the policy.
Scottish Widows  accepted that the delay between 16 July and 15 August was its responsibility as, 
whilst it told Mr D what was needed on 23 July, it didnt write back  to R to explain that. Scottish  
Widows offered interest for that delay  and £75 compensation. For all other periods Im satisfied 
Scottish Widows  replied  within a time frame Id consider  to be acceptable.
Im satisfied Scottish Widows was consistent  in telling R and Mr D that it needed a letter  of no further 
interest or bank account details for R (rather than Mr D). Whilst I understand Mr Ds frustration  I cant 
agree Scottish Widows  was required to accept anything different. Scottish Widows decision regarding 
what it needs  to pay out the maturity value is a matter for its commercial judgement, and I dont think  
its appropriate for me to question that here.
Providing the necessary letter - or correct bank details - was a matter between  Mr D and R, so any 
delays in this being provided wasnt the fault of Scottish Widows (other than for the period Ive already 
set out above). Scottish Widows told R what was needed in its letter of 15 August, and then chased 
that up when no response was received.  Once Scottish Widows  received the information it needed  on 
the afternoon of Friday 12 October, it released  the funds by CHAPS on Monday 15 October.
It wasnt Scottish Widows responsibility  to resolve  the issue  of the policy assignment.  It set out its 
requirements, and once  it did so it had no responsibility  to chase matters up or phone R to explain 
things further.  I can fully understand Scottish Widows concerns as it was receiving conflicting 
information from R, sometimes being told R had no further interest in the policy and at other times that 
R wanted to claim the policy proceeds. On at least one occasion both these statements were made  
within the same letter.
Theres also the matter of a letter R said it sent to Scottish Widows by recorded  delivery, but the 
delivery information  provided shows it wasnt received  by Scottish Widows.  
In all the circumstances Im satisfied Scottish Widows  acted reasonably, taking into account that the 
assignment was a matter between Mr D and R. Whilst I agree the delay between 16 July and 15 
August wasnt  helpful, Im satisfied the offer already made by Scottish  Widows for that is fair and 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN01833904my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions from Mr D and Scottish Widows, Im minded  to not uphold this 
complaint in the sense that I consider the offer of £134 made  by Scottish Widows Limited in its final 
response to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0183390