K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs representative, a claims management company (CMC),  complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by HSBC UK Bank  Plc.  
background
In my provisional decision of 25 September 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this, my final decision, I said I was minded  to uphold the complaint. In short, I said that I 
wasnt satisfied that the investment advice was suitable. I said 70% of the investment should 
be redressed using  the 50/50  benchmark and the remaining 30% using the Bank of England 
base rate +1% and this applied to all of Mr and Mrs Bs investments. 
The CMC replied and accepted my provisional decision but sought clarification regarding my 
redress, and whether it included Mr Bs ISA. 
HSBC has responded  and accepted that its advice was more  likely than not unsuitable  given 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances in 2000. But in respect  of the proposed  redress, it made  the 
following key observations:
I should consider sections of the fact find relating to fund and the risk Mr and Mrs B were 
willing to take.  
There was nothing  to suggest  they werent happy with the level of risk they had to take, 
or had no previous  investment risk, or had a preference  to keep their money in a 
deposit account. 
Mr and Mrs B were well versed in managing money, cost and emergencies having  
run a business. 
It may have been more appropriate for the adviser to prompt Mr and Mrs B to invest a 
lower amount than originally invested, and maybe  agree to meet them again in future. 
In light of the above I should consider an alternative redress  to the one I proposed in my 
provisional decision. 
 
At my suggestion the investigator  double checked  with HSBC to see if the CMCs 
interpretation was also their interpretation  it wasnt.  Having done so, the investigator has 
assured the CMC that my proposed redress includes Mr Bs ISA as well as Mr and Mrs Bs 
investments.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and notwithstanding  the points made by the CMC and HSBC, my 
conclusion remains as set out previously, and for the same  reasons. I still uphold this 
complaint and think HSBC should pay redress as set out in my provisional decision.   
Having otherwise considered HSBCs  response to my provisional decision,  I dont consider 
that any new points  have been raised,  other than those key points already made and 
considered by me in my provisional decision. In short, Ive considered all the points that 
I consider relevant to my decision.
Ref: DRN03737012I should clarify on the face of the evidence and on balance Mr and Mrs B appeared to be 
inexperienced investors  who had a tendency  to keep  their money in deposit accounts. Ive 
seen nothing that persuades me otherwise. 
And despite the CMCs concerns the proposed redress  includes  Mr Bs ISA. 
So in conclusion, I think the redress proposed by me in my provisional  decision is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for the same  reasons that Ive already  mentioned.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that 
I uphold this complaint.   
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay the amount calculated  as set out in 
my provisional decision on the basis of only 70% of the invested funds being invested, and 
the remaining  30% being kept in a deposit  based account. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03737013COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs representative, a claims  management company (CMC), complains  on their behalf  that 
they were given unsuitable investment advice by HSBC  UK Bank Plc.  
background
In 2000, Mr B was advised  to invest £7,140 into a HSBC Selected Investment Fund ISA (ISA),  and Mr 
and Mrs B were advised  to invest £45,720 into a HSBC Open  Ended Investment Company (OEIC).
It was recorded they were in their early 50s and that theyd  recently  sold their business and released 
some capital. They used some of the money to pay off their debts and purchase a cottage which  
needed some renovation  work.  
They had savings of £94,777 in a cash deposit  account and £600 in stocks and shares. They were 
living off their savings and had no other source of income.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  In summary, he said:
The recommendation to invest  63% of Mr and Mrs Bs available cash  was unsuitable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B had stopped working,  had zero income and there was no guarantee of them 
getting an income again,  despite talk of getting  work.
It was recorded:
othey are living off available capital until they decide  to work again (having  sold the 
business they decided to take 6 months off renovating their home). When they do return  to 
work they will probably undertake small employed  positions  which will bring in about £150 
per week net each which  will be more  than adequate  to meet  their ongoing bills.
They were only left with just under £35,000  to live on, do house renovations, and rely on for 
emergencies and future  spending  potentially for the next five years.  
It was recorded:
othe rest of the money to remain liquid to fund house renovations and to meet 
expenditure.
In the circumstances there was no reason  why they couldnt take a small risk with some of their 
money. They had low outgoings  and no outstanding financial liabilities. 
In the absence of the risk questionnaire hes unable  to say what level of risk they wanted to take 
at the time, therefore hes unable  to say the investment was too risky.  
As they had no guaranteed income, any loss would be difficult  to recover from, and money  left 
wasnt reasonable  in the circumstances. There was no real consideration of what  the renovations 
would cost or living costs.  
HSBC disagreed with the investigators  conclusions.  In summary,  it said:
Overall the recommendation was suitable. 
Mr and Mrs B identified the time and amount they wished to invest for. The point of sale 
documentation shows that this was discussed, along with the level of risk. 
Mr and Mrs B were well aware of their financial circumstances and happy to accept the level of risk.  
Given  that 20 years  have passed  since the sale of the investment its sales documents are likely to 
be more  accurate  than Mr and Mrs Bs recollection of what  they say happened at the point of sale. 
The investment was retained  for seven years without any significant withdrawals made, other 
than £4,000 in 2006. Theres no evidence  that the recommendation caused  Mr and Mrs B any 
detriment in their lives as suggested.  
Its pleased that the investigator agrees the level of risk wasnt unsuitable.  
Ref: DRN03737014In terms of the proposed  redress the basis of his uphold would suggest redress based on Mr and 
Mrs B leaving  their un-invested funds in a deposit based account earning  little or no interest. 
It doesnt understand how this would  benefit Mr and Mrs B given  that the invested sum made money. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what HSBC says, Im minded to agree with the 
investigator that the recommendation to invest roughly 63% of Mr and Mrs Bs cash was unsuitable. 
Consequently I dont think the cash  reserves they were left with were reasonable  either, given  that 
they had to use this to live on, carry out renovation work, and depend  on for emergencies. But unlike 
the investigator I also think Mr and Mrs B were  advised to take too much risk with their money. 
The CMC and HSBC have provided detailed  submissions to support  the complaint,  which Ive read 
and considered carefully. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and the business,  and reach  what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision based on the facts  of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant  law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im not specifically  looking  at whether Mr and Mrs B were  balanced risk investors  or whether the funds 
were. Im aware of the CMCs comments regarding  this but its not for me to give them a risk rating. Im 
simply considering  if the advice was generally  suitable for Mr and Mrs B and on balance Im not 
persuaded that it was. 
Whilst its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr and Mrs B to arrive at this conclusion 
that they were medium or balanced  risk investors  Im uncertain as to the reasoning  behind  this.
I appreciate they were  willing to take a risk in order to have the opportunity to secure greater returns  
over the longer term than with a cash deposit  account. Overall, given their circumstances, Im not 
persuaded this was an accurate reflection  of their attitude to risk.
I note the CMC says Mr and Mrs B were  aware  that the value of their investments could fluctuate but 
the funds recommended (Balanced  Fund, British Trust and Continental Europe Trust) contained a 
higher risk for first time investors with no previous experience or knowledge of risk based 
investments. On balance Im minded to agree with the CMC.  
I note it was recorded  Mr and Mrs B were  in their early 50s not in work  at the time, and with no 
financial dependents. I note they had purchased their property and were mortgage free, so were  in a 
position to take some risk with a portion  of their money.   But I also note they had a tendency  to keep 
their money  in cash deposit  accounts. 
Im mindful they were reliant on their capital for income and otherwise had no other income.  Whether 
or not they were intending  to go back to work at some point, there was no guarantee they would do so 
and at the time they were unlikely  to be in a position to replace any losses.  So, in the circumstances, 
and on balance, I think if they were made aware  of the risks involved, they wouldve opted  for a 
lower/cautious risk investment. 
Ref: DRN03737015On the face of the evidence whilst I appreciate  the key points made by the business, I think  its only 
with the power of hindsight we now know  nothing  had gone wrong.  In my opinion this doesnt make an 
unsuitable recommendation suitable.  
If an emergency  had occurred either with Mr and Mrs B or their building  work, I dont think  the cash 
reserves wouldve necessarily been sufficient to see them through.  In other words, relying  on their 
cash reserves  in order to carry out the renovation  work, survive, and for emergencies its likely theyve 
had to make  sacrifices probably involving  the restoration work as this was likely  to be their greatest 
expense, which Im not convinced was given  sufficient consideration.  
Im conscious  renovation works are notorious for going over budget and theres no actual reason why they 
had to depend  on £35,000 for so many things and may very well be one of the reasons why they made a 
withdrawal of £4,000, albeit in 2006. Otherwise it might not have been necessary to take out any funds at all.
I agree with the investigators analysis  that Mr and Mrs B were willing  to take some risk in order to 
meet their objective for capital gain. I dont  think they were  risk averse  and nothing  that Ive seen 
precluded them form making a risk based investment. However I dont think  the current 
recommendation was suitable for the reasons Ive already outlined.  
Whilst I acknowledge its difficult to know what Mr and Mrs B wouldve done instead, on balance Im 
minded to agree  with the investigators proposed  redress benchmark  as shown below but only on the 
basis of them having invested 70% of the invested funds. In other words, on the basis  of only 70% of the 
£7,140 invested by Mr B into an ISA, and 70% of the £45,720 invested by Mr and Mrs B into an OEIC.  
I think  HSBC should pay redress  on the remaining  30% on the basis of it being kept in a deposit 
based account  compared to the Bank of England base rate +1  with 8% simple interest from the 
point of investment to the point of settlement. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr and Mrs B 
as close  to the position they would probably  now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice.
I think  Mr and Mrs B would have invested  differently.  It is not possible to say precisely what  they 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have  set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr and 
Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when  they invested.  
what should the business do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs B fairly, the business must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown  below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual  value of the investment.  If the actual 
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.
the business should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment name status benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
HSBC Selected 
Investment Fund 
ISA 
&
HSBC Open 
Ended Investment 
Company    surrenderedfor half the 
investment: FTSE  UK 
Private Investors 
Income Total Return 
Index;  for the other  
half: average rate 
from fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN03737016actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid from the investment  at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, the business  should  use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. 
If there  are a large number  of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if the 
business totals  all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs B wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who wanted  to 
achieve a reasonable return  without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market  Income total return index) is a mix of diversified  indices representing different asset 
classes, mainly  UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they were prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain their investment  objectives.  So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr and Mrs B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr and Mrs B would  have 
invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly  reflects  the sort of return  Mr and 
Mrs B could have obtained  from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude. 
The additional  interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation  money since the end date. 
my provisional  decision
Provisionally, subject to any further  submissions,  I uphold  the complaint.  
My provisional  decision  is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay the amount calculated as set out above 
on the basis of only 70% of the invested funds being invested, and the remaining  30% being kept in a 
deposit based  account. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0373701