K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services  UK Limited (MBFS) supplied him 
with a car under a hire purchase agreement which wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr W acquired a used  car using finance from MBFS in December 2016.  The car had 
travelled around  5,000 miles and had a cash price of around £50,000. He paid a deposit of 
£269.99. The hire purchase agreement was for 48 months with monthly repayments of 
£890.76. There was a final balloon payment of £16,375. 
Mr W says he complained  to the dealership in early  2017 when the car had travelled around 
9,000 miles in total. He says the front tyres were showing uneven and excessive wear. He 
says the outer edges of the tyres  were  wearing significantly  quicker  than the centre areas.  
He also says he complained that the tyres were crabbing the road surface  when travelling 
at low speeds and in particular when parking. Mr W says the dealership didnt take his 
complaint seriously  and told him this was normal. Mr W therefore replaced the tyres at a cost 
of £442. 
He complained to the manufacturer in December 2017 because the new tyres had once 
again worn unevenly and excessively. He explained the car was experiencing the same 
crabbing sensation  at low speeds and a vibration  through  the steering wheel, as well as a 
jolt when straightening from full lock. He says the car had travelled around 17,000 miles at 
that time.
The manufacturer and dealership acknowledged there was a crabbing   or skipping  
sensation when manoeuvring the car at low speeds and at full lock. But it said this was a 
characteristic of this particular make and model  and didnt indicate  there  was any fault with 
the car. It did however suggest that replacing  the tyres with all season tyres  would lessen   
and in many  cases eliminate  the sensation, so it agreed to do this free of charge  in 
January 2018.  
Mr W says this didnt resolve the problem  and within 600 miles the new tyres were also 
showing signs of excessive and uneven wear. In addition, he said the tyres that were fitted 
werent all season  tyres  nor were they approved  by the manufacturer. He says it resulted in 
the alignment of his headlights changing  due to the ride height being altered. Lastly, there 
was also an issue with the speedometer not reading correctly. 
Mr W complained  to MBFS at the end of January 2018 to ask to reject the car because  he 
said it wasnt of satisfactory quality. He was concerned about  the crabbing/skipping  
sensation and the effect this had on the tyres. He was also concerned  it would impact  the 
safety of the car. 
MBFS didnt uphold his complaint. It said there  wasnt  any fault with the car and the skipping 
sensation was just a characteristic. It said independent inspections had been carried  out 
which confirmed there wasnt any safety concerns nor did the characteristic  impact  the 
performance of the car. It said as Mr W had already arranged realignment of the headlights  
himself and hadnt provided  an opportunity  for the speedometer  issue to be investigated it 
didnt agree there were any issues to rectify. It considered the car to be of satisfactory 
quality. 
Ref: DRN02377472As Mr W didnt get his desired outcome he says he sold the car in February 2018  in order to 
minimise any future losses. He says he would have had to replace tyres more  frequently 
than necessary (which  were expensive) and he wasnt happy with how uncomfortable the 
skipping sensation was when driving  the car. He says what  he sold the car for wasnt 
enough to cover what he owed on the finance agreement. He says he was left with a 
shortfall of around  £4,500. 
I sent Mr W and MBFS my provisional decision on 12 May 2020. I explained why I thought  
the complaint  should be upheld. I said:
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement,  so this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Under  the hire purchase agreement,  MBFS is also the 
supplier of the car and is therefore  responsible for a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) says that there is an implied term in any contract  to 
supply goods  that those  goods will be of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what 
a reasonable person would expect,  taking into account any description  of the goods, the 
price and all other relevant circumstances. I think in this case  those relevant circumstances 
included  but arent limited to  the age and mileage of the car. 
MBFS supplied a car which was what Id consider  to be nearly  new in that it had only 
travelled around  5,000 miles and was in good  condition. It was also a relatively expensive, 
high-end car as it had a cash price of just over £50,000. So my starting point is that I think 
its fair to say a reasonable  person would expect the quality to be of a higher standard than a 
cheaper, more  road worn  car. But also to be of higher  standard  compared to similar  but 
more inexpensive  cars.  
It seems  Mr W did report his concerns about  the skipping and tyre wear within the first few 
months of using it. MBFS and the manufacturer also accept  that this is an issue  with this 
particular make and model of car and that it is present in the car supplied  to Mr W. This 
means Im satisfied the skipping issue isnt something that was or was likely to have been  
caused by Mr W or was as a result of normal in service wear and tear. 
MBFS argues that the issue is an acceptable  characteristic  rather than something that would  
entitle Mr W to seek rejection of the car under the CRA. 
Ive considered that the way different cars handle will inevitably vary.  There will be 
differences in noise,  vibrations and smoothness and this will change  depending on the type 
of car and tyres that you choose. And MBFS (and the manufacturer) have provided  a 
detailed mechanical  explanation for why the car drives in this way. In summary, it argues it is 
down to the design of some of the moving parts in the car which  only affects  those built for 
right hand  drive. It says this design does not impact performance or safety and is therefore 
not a defect. 
MBFS and the manufacturer appear  to acknowledge that the issue  doesnt necessarily 
impact every  single  car in this group. So this means that what Mr W was experiencing with 
his car wasnt necessarily the same as other users with the same model. For this reason Im 
less persuaded  that the issue  is an acceptable  or usual characteristic of the car, because if it 
was, I would have  expected it to have impacted every single car in the group. 
I can see that MBFS did also try to remedy the issue by replacing the front tyres to a 
different specification which it said would lessen the sensation. But if this had been  a normal 
Ref: DRN02377473and expected characteristic of the car then Im not persuaded Mr W would have been offered 
free tyres to put things  right. 
Further, it appears several months after Mr W sold the car the manufacturer is now offering a 
fix for the skipping issue, which involves adjustment to the steering  rack. While this fix isnt 
available for every car in this affected group, this appears to further support that the skipping 
issue was an unacceptable  feature  in the manufacture of some of those  cars affected with 
the issue. 
MBFS has provided reports from two independent  sources that it says supports its 
argument. One of those  is from the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA).  This 
particular report didnt  involve an inspection of Mr Ws car. Instead, it was of two similar 
models. So while Ive taken this report into account,  Ive placed less weight on it compared 
to the second  report  which was carried out on Mr Ws car.  
However, the DVSA report does acknowledge that there was noise when driving on certain 
road conditions  at full lock and at low speeds. It said this issue  didnt impact  the safety or 
performance of the car and that fitting all season  tyres  appeared to eliminate the issue. 
The second  report  which was carried  out on Mr Ws car acknowledges there is a noise and 
skipping sensation when  travelling at low speeds and when steering at full lock. However, 
the report says this does not impact the safety  of the car.
Overall, Im not persuaded the issue impacts the safety of the car Mr W had. But I think  its 
clear there was a skipping sensation  and noise coming from the car, at least  when  steering 
at full lock (although I acknowledge  Mr W has said this also appeared in other driving 
conditions). 
Mr W has provided a video  demonstrating the noise  and skipping sensation when parking. 
Its not clear from the video whether  the tyres are crabbing/skipping but there is a relatively 
loud noise which would indicate that is whats  happening. In addition,  Mr W has provided 
photographs of his tyre marks  when  driving through snow which  appear  to show uneven  and 
inconsistent patterns which could reasonably be caused by the tyre skipping when turning. 
Hes also provided receipts  to show he had to replace the front tyres after only around 9,000 
miles of use. And the tyres were once again replaced after around another  9,000 miles. In 
this time it seems the rear tyres only needed  to be replaced once,  at around 17,000. So it 
seems to me that the front tyres were wearing significantly  quicker than the rear ones. 
Mr W has sent in photos  of the replacement tyres  the dealership  put on the car in 
January 2018.  He says these were taken  after around 600 miles of use. The photos  show  
that the outer edges of the tyres were wearing faster than the inner part of the tyre. So it 
appears he continued to have the same issues with tyre wear even after the dealership 
swapped them. 
He says he continued to experience the skipping  and noise despite these new tyres. And 
although he hasnt  provided any video since the tyre replacement,  Im persuaded overall the 
noise and skipping were  still present. This is because of the photos of the uneven  tyre wear 
and how consistent  Mr W has been  with what he says happened  throughout the time the car 
was in his possession. 
Ref: DRN02377474Whether the car could be considered satisfactory  quality is not clear cut. Im persuaded there 
is an issue with the car but there  is clearly  a dispute  about how bad the issue is. And I 
accept that this will be subjective. It also appears  that the overall  severity  of the issue can 
vary even  across the same model of car. 
Taking into consideration all the circumstances of this case,  Im persuaded, albeit on 
balance, that Mr Ws car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to him. This is 
because hes been able to provide consistent and credible  evidence to demonstrate there 
was a significant impact  on his tyres  as well as to the comfort  of the driving experience.  
I dont think these issues are what a reasonable person would have expected  of the car, 
taking into account  all the relevant circumstances. For this reason, I think MBFS now needs 
to put things right. 
Its clear the proposed  solution to Mr Ws issue was to have the tyres  replaced. But Ive seen 
that this didnt appear to remedy the problem.  So I think its reasonable to conclude  that by 
offering replacement tyres, it was essentially an attempt  to repair  the issue.  As that repair  
failed, Mr W would have been entitled  to reject  the car as he wanted to. 
But Mr W has since sold the car at a loss and settled the finance agreement. While Im 
mindful that the ongoing cost of replacing the tyres  more frequently  might have ended up 
costing less than the £4,500 Mr W says he lost, he would also have had to put up with the 
discomfort and inconvenience  of the skipping sensation and noise. 
I dont think Mr W acted unreasonably  in selling the car when he did and MBFS ought to 
have accepted his request to reject  the car in any event. Ive not seen anything  to suggest 
Mr W sold the car for an unreasonably low price or that MBFS would have been able to 
recover significantly more had it sold it instead.  This is because it appears Mr W sold it back  
to a manufacturer approved dealer. 
Had Mr W been allowed to reject the car as he should, he wouldnt have incurred the 
shortfall in paying  off the finance  agreement.  So I think  a fair resolution here would be for 
MBFS to refund that shortfall to him  on receipt of evidence of what  he sold the car for. As 
Mr W has also been deprived of using that money  elsewhere, MBFS should also add 8% 
simple interest to that refund  from the date Mr W paid off the finance to the date of 
settlement. 
As I think  the front tyres were wearing too quickly, I also think  its fair that MBFS refund  the 
cost of the front tyres Mr W purchased in early  2017. It should also refund the deposit he 
paid to enter into the agreement. MBFS should add 8% simple  interest  to these refunds too. 
Lastly, I can see that Mr W did have regular use of the car so its fair he pays for that use. 
For this reason I think its fair for MBFS to retain  the majority of his monthly rental  payments. 
But I think Mr Ws driving experience was impacted to some  degree by the issues hed 
experienced. And he was paying a significant  amount each  month for the use of the car 
without having  the driving  experience to a standard a reasonable person ought to expect in 
these circumstances.  
For this reason, I think he ought  to receive a small amount back for each month  he had use 
of the car. There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair percentage would be. But 
taking everything into account in the specific circumstances of this case, I think  a refund of 
10% of each monthly repayment is fair. 
 
Ref: DRN02377475Mr W accepted my provisional decision. He provided documentation to show  how much he 
sold the car for at a manufacturer approved dealership. This showed he made a loss of 
£4,455.34.
MBFS didnt agree. In summary it said:
It said all cars in the group have this characteristic  but as the car Mr W had was a 
specific performance model, with a more powerful engine  this is why it would feel a 
more pronounced sensation.
There are a number of factors that will impact the severity of the tyre skipping such 
as weather, road conditions, tyre condition and compound and driving  style.  
By offering a goodwill  gesture to replace the front tyres,  MBFS was trying to assist 
their customer. This wasnt an acceptance of a fault or defect. They  would always  
look to find solutions to any issues a particular customer found irritating but that 
doesnt mean those  issues  make  the car of unsatisfactory  quality. 
There have been a number of similar  cases reviewed by this service  where  weve 
found that this issue  is a characteristic. There is no reason why this case should  be 
any different.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. However, Ill 
address the additional points MBFS has raised.  
MBFS says all cars in this group are affected by the tyre skipping issue and it says that the 
sensation was likely to be more pronounced  in the type of car Mr W had. It says a number  of 
other factors will make a difference to how pronounced the issue  is. But this still means that 
MBFS accepts  that not all of the cars in the group will be affected  in the same way. It follows  
that some  cars might have a very slight, possibly even an unnoticeable issue and others  a 
much more prominent sensation. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I need to determine whether Mr Ws car was of 
satisfactory quality taking into account the specific circumstances of his case, not the 
circumstances of all the cars in the group. And Im satisfied, on balance,  based on the 
evidence Mr W has been able to provide  of the noise, the skipping  and the tyre wear  that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
I realise MBFS will in certain situations want to make goodwill gestures for customer service 
reasons. Im not suggesting  it shouldnt do this. Instead, Im persuaded that in Mr Ws 
specific case the issue he was experiencing made  the car of unsatisfactory quality  and 
MBFS had already had one opportunity  to try and remedy that issue  which had failed.  For 
that reason,  Im satisfied Mr W ought to have  been  entitled to reject the car. 
Lastly MBFS has referred to other  decisions made by this service.  But each case is 
assessed on its own merits.  As Ive already explained here and in my provisional  decision, 
I think in the circumstances of this specific  case,  Mr W has adequately demonstrated his car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. For that reason,  I think  MBFS needs to put things right. 
Ref: DRN02377476my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct                               
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  to:
Refund £4,455.34 being  the difference between what Mr W sold the car for and what 
the settlement  amount on the finance  agreement was.
Refund the deposit of £269.99.
Refund the cost of the replacement tyres of £442.
Refund 10% of each  monthly rental payment.
MBFS should pay 8% simple interest per year on all of the above refunds calculated from 
the date he made each  payment to the date of settlement. 
If MBFS considers tax should  be deducted from the interest part of my award it should 
provide Mr W with a certificate showing how much  its taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount if he is entitled to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0237747