K820x#14This final decision is issued by me, Nimish Patel,  an Ombudsman with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.  
I issued a Provisional  Decision on 13 May 2019  (the Provisional Decision) explaining  that 
I was not minded to uphold the complaint  and setting  out my reasons for reaching  those  
provisional conclusions.  I explained that I would consider the parties further  
representations (together with the evidence and arguments submitted before the 
Provisional Decision) before reaching my final decision.  
Neither party made further  submissions.  This is my final decision on Mrs Ps complaint.
summary
1. This dispute is about  the sale in 1998  of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  
to support  a Lloyds Bank PLC credit card.
2. Mrs P complains that Lloyds did not properly explain the policys features, 
exclusions and limitations. She says that, if it had, she would not have taken the 
policy out.
3. Lloyds says Mrs P was eligible for the policy and it was suitable for her. It says 
more information  about the features of the policy would not have affected her 
decision to take it out. It does  not think compensation is due to her.
4. I have carefully considered all of the evidence and arguments submitted by both 
sides, in order  to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
5. This is not a straightforward complaint, with both parties making  credible arguments 
in support  of their positions.  But, for the reasons I explain in detail below, I have 
decided to determine the complaint in favour  of Lloyds, to the extent that I have not 
made an award in favour of Mrs P.
6. This is my final decision. In summary, based  on the evidence and arguments 
submitted during the course  of the complaint,  my final conclusions  are as follows:
-Mrs P made her decision  to take out the policy based on advice and information
Lloyds gave her about  the policy.
-Taking into account the law, industry  codes  of practice and what I consider to 
have been good  practice in 1998 (there were  no applicable statutory 
regulations relating  to the sale of payment protection contracts  like this at the 
time), Lloyds should fairly  and reasonably  have  advised Mrs P with reasonable 
care and skill. In particular, it should have considered whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs  and circumstances. It should 
also fairly and reasonably have provided  Mrs P with sufficient clear, fair and 
not misleading information  about  the policy  it was recommending  to her, to 
enable her to make an informed  decision about whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
-Lloyds did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs P. It did not 
advise Mrs P with reasonable care and skill, in that it did not take sufficient 
Ref: DRN01714542steps to establish whether the policy was suitable  for Mrs P (although the policy 
it recommended was ultimately  suitable for her). And it did not provide Mrs P 
with all the information she needed to make an informed decision about 
whether to take out the policy.
-Mrs P made her decision  to take out the policy based on the recommendation 
and incomplete  information.  But, on the evidence available  in this case, if things 
had happened  as they should,  it is more likely than not Mrs P would still have 
taken out the policy.
-It would not be fair in those circumstances to make an award to compensate  
Mrs P for the money  she spent in connection with the policy.
7. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P 
either to accept  or reject  my decision before XXX.
background to the complaint
a)  events leading up to the complaint
8. In March 1998, Mrs P applied for a Lloyds credit card and a Payment 
Protection Plan. Lloyds says it does not know how it came to sell her the 
PPI. It has a copy of a completed  application  form and has assumed it 
recommended the policy to Mrs P. Mrs P agrees with Lloyds that it 
recommended the policy to her and also says the sale took place in a 
branch meeting.
9. Mrs Ps personal details on the application form were handwritten. Mrs P signed 
the form. There appears  to be a cross  on the form to indicate  where  Mrs Ps 
signature was required. This is consistent  with the sale of the card and PPI 
having taken  place  with her present at a meeting as Mrs P remembers  and I 
consider it most likely that this is what happened.
10. Lloyds records show the account  started on 16 March  1998 and that a card limit of 
£1,000 was agreed. It does not hold any statements from before January 2000 so the 
statement history is incomplete. The first available statement is from January  2000 
and shows that Mrs P was charged  a PPI premium of £13.13.
11. I have not been  provided with a list of all of the transactions  on the account. But 
Lloyds says Mrs P paid her last PPI premium in 2004 before the account ended  
no later than 7 June  2006.  It is not known how many PPI premiums Mrs P paid 
while her account  was active.
b)  Mrs Ps circumstances in 1998
12. Mrs Ps credit  card application  contains  some information about her circumstances 
at the time. She was 36 years  old and had been living  at her address for six months. 
She was employed as a cashier earning £16,000 per year and had been with her 
employer for six years.
13. Separately,  Mrs P told us that:
Ref: DRN01714543-She was an accounts administrator and had worked for her employer for 
seven years when she applied for the card. She was earning £22,000 a 
year. 
-She would  have received less than three months full pay if she was off 
work due to sickness or accident.  She did not have any other  means of 
meeting her card repayments if she was off work.
-She suffered  both bruising and back pain in around 1972,  for which  she took 
painkillers and which caused her to miss work  for a month.  She did not miss 
any work for this after that time and did not have  any ongoing medical 
appointments. Lloyds  said she confirmed she suffered  these injuries in a road 
traffic accident and that they caused her to miss school (rather  than work) for 
a month. 
-She had an operation to remove abnormal cells at some  stage before March 
1998 although she does not know when. She was off work for two weeks 
following the operation  but her ability to work was not affected after that time.
c)  the policy  what was Lloyds  selling  and what did Mrs P buy?
14. Lloyds has provided a copy of the full policy terms and conditions  it says  and which I
accept on the balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs Ps sold in 1998.
15. The policy terms and conditions were set out in a four-page  booklet called Lloyds 
Bank MasterCard Payment Protection Plan Certificate  of Insurance.  Among other  
things, these show that:
-There were  eligibility criteria for life, disability and unemployment benefits, 
including requirements for the applicant  to be aged 18 or over,  but under 65, 
and working (in paid work for 16 or more hours per week)  at the start date. Had 
Mrs P not started work until after the start date she would only have  become  
eligible for disability  and unemployment benefits once she had been  at work 
for six months without  a break.  But from the information I have, Mrs P was 
working at the start date and did meet these criteria.
-Other eligibility criteria were  that the applicant must not have  been  in receipt of 
a state pension or be aware of any likely unemployment. I have no reason to 
consider Mrs P to have been affected  by these  criteria.
-There were also eligibility  criteria for life and hospitalisation benefits only,  
including that the applicant must be 65 or over but under 75 at the start date or 
18 or over but under 65 and not be at work at the start date. From the 
information I have, Mrs P did not meet  these criteria. 
-The policy provided life cover  it would pay off the amount Mrs P owed on 
her credit  card,  up to £7,500, in the event  of her death.   
-The policy provided disability cover.  Broadly,  if Mrs P was unable  to do her 
normal work due to injury, sickness or disease it would pay 10% of the 
outstanding balance at the start of the disability, up to £750 a month.  This was 
payable each month until the disability  came to an end, or until the outstanding  
Ref: DRN01714544balance at the start of the disability was cleared, or Mrs P had received 12 
payments, whichever came first.
-The policy provided unemployment benefits.  The policy  would pay 10% of the 
outstanding balance at the start of unemployment each month, up to £750 a 
month, until Mrs P ceased to be unemployed, the outstanding balance  at the 
start of the unemployment  was cleared, or Mrs P had received 12 payments, 
whichever came first.
-There were  two insurers  London and Edinburgh Life Assurance Company 
Limited provided the life cover and London and Edinburgh Insurance 
Company Limited provided the hospitalisation, disability and unemployment 
cover.
16. To put the benefit payments into context, I have calculated roughly  what would 
happen to Mrs Ps account, assuming she made  a successful disability  or 
unemployment claim for 12 months  after spending  £1,000  on her card on purchases.
17. The calculation assumes:  a 1.24% per month interest rate (the rate Lloyds charged  
on purchases at the time of the first available card statement), the PPI cost 79p per 
£100 of the outstanding balance;  and that the minimum payment was 3% of the 
monthly balance (or £5, whichever  was higher), as the available  card statements 
suggest was the case.
18. It shows that, during  the 12-month  period of the claim, the policy would more than 
cover the contractual  monthly minimum payment  and would clear the outstanding 
account balance in full.
MonthOpening  
balanceSpend PPI InterestInsurance  
paymentClosing  
balanceMinimum 
payment
1 £0.00 £1,000.00 £0.00 £0.00 £0.00 £1,000.00 £0.00
2 £1,000.00 £0.00 £7.21 £12.40 £100.00 £919.61 £30.00
3 £919.61 £0.00 £6.56 £11.40 £100.00 £837.58 £27.59
4 £837.58 £0.00 £5.91 £10.39 £100.00 £753.87 £25.13
5 £753.87 £0.00 £5.24 £9.35 £100.00 £668.46 £22.62
6 £668.46 £0.00 £4.56 £8.29 £100.00 £581.30 £20.05
7 £581.30 £0.00 £3.86 £7.21 £100.00 £492.37 £17.44
8 £492.37 £0.00 £3.15 £6.11 £100.00 £401.62 £14.77
9 £401.62 £0.00 £2.42 £4.98 £100.00 £309.03 £12.05
10 £309.03 £0.00 £1.68 £3.83 £100.00 £214.54 £9.27
11 £214.54 £0.00 £0.93 £2.66 £100.00 £118.13 £6.44
12 £118.13 £0.00 £0.15 £1.46 £100.00 £19.75 £5.00
13 £19.75 £0.00 £0.00 £0.24 £19.99 £0.00 £0.00
19. Returning to the Certificate of Insurance, there  were  also exclusions  for example, 
for disability and hospitalisation claims occurring within  12 months of the start date 
Ref: DRN01714545due to pre-existing medical conditions. The policy defined a pre-existing medical 
condition as:
Any condition, injury, illness, disease or sickness  during the 12 months before the 
Start Date:
-which You knew about, or should  have known  about, at the Start Date, or
-which You had seen or arranged to see a Doctor  about, during  the 12 months  
immediately before the Start  Date.
20. While  the policy required Mrs P to provide satisfactory evidence of disability to 
make a claim, it did not exclude  back or mental health conditions, or place any 
additional restrictions or more onerous evidential  requirements on claims relating 
to back  and mental health  issues than would have applied to any other disability.
d)  the complaint and Lloyds response
21. Mrs Ps representative, Wilson Tarquin Ltd, made lengthy  and substantial  
representations on her behalf  prior to the Provisional Decision.
22. I will not restate  them all here. Instead  I will refer to some of the specific  
representations made at relevant times  in this decision. But I have read and 
considered them  all carefully. In essence,  Mrs P said:
-Lloyds did not give her the information it should  have given her about  the 
costs and benefits associated with the policy.
-It was not enough to say what the premium was per £100 of the outstanding 
balance as Lloyds  did. The true costs  were much  higher as the premiums were 
added to the account, attracting interest  (which compounded over time), and 
the premiums would continue to be charged  during  the period of a successful 
claim, reducing the benefit. This meant  the policy  was both expensive and 
represented exceptionally poor value.
-The policy was unnecessary because she was covered  anyway  she was 
entitled to full sick pay.
-Lloyds did not tell her about the poor value of the policy, which  is illustrated by 
the low claims  ratio.  Typically less than 20p in every  pound was used to pay 
claims, the rest paid for costs, profits  and commission.  Lloyds failure  to explain  
this to her was a breach  of the common law duty of utmost good  faith.
-Lloyds did not tell her about the limitations  affecting the policy, in particular: that 
the policy would only pay out if Mrs P was unable to do both her own job and 
other work which the insurer  thought  she was reasonably qualified to do; and 
that claims for pre-existing medical conditions, back  injury or mental health were  
not covered. This reduced the policys value, particularly as those conditions are 
the cause of the most common reasons for long-term absence  from work. 
-The common law duty of utmost good  faith meant Lloyds should have done 
more than simply draw the limitations to her attention, it should also have 
Ref: DRN01714546explained the significance of them and the impact  they would have on her 
chances of making  a claim.
-These were substantial flaws in the sale process. Had she known the true 
cost of the policy, the limits  on the cover  and its poor value, she would not 
have taken it out  that would  have been  the logical outcome, given the 
seriousness of the failings.
-In any event, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) guidance at DISP App 
3.6.2 E makes it clear  that it should  be presumed she would not have taken out 
the policy unless  there  is evidence to outweigh the presumption. I am required 
to take that regulatory  guidance  into account  when  deciding  what  is fair and 
reasonable and should not depart from it, other  than in exceptional  
circumstances when  there is sufficiently good  reason to take a different 
approach.
-Lloyds should  pay compensation  to put her in the position she would have been 
in if she had not taken out the policy.
23. Lloyds also provided  us with its submissions before I issued the Provisional Decison. 
In essence Lloyds  said:
-Mrs P was eligible  for the cover. For example, she was within the age range  and 
was working.
-The policy was suitable  for her  while she said she had some employee 
benefits, the lack of detail provided about them meant it could not say these 
were sufficient  to make the cover unsuitable. And while she was suffering from 
a pre-existing medical condition the policy was still suitable for her.
-The full cost was, more likely  than not, verbally  explained  to Mrs P prior to 
the conclusion  of the sale.
-It is more likely than not that the optional nature of the policy was verbally 
explained to Mrs P before the sale was concluded.
-At the time Mrs P bought the policy, there was no requirement to disclose 
the amount of premium  that would be retained  as commission.  And because 
of the dates Mrs Ps policy and credit card were active, it does not have to 
re-examine her complaint  to establish  whether  there  was an unfair 
relationship caused  by the non-disclosure of commission.
24. Neither party made any further representations in response to the Provisional 
Decision.
my findings
25. I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the 
outset, in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
a)  relevant considerations
Ref: DRN0171454726. When considering what is fair and reasonable,  I am required  to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations;  relevant regulators  rules,  guidance and standards;  
relevant codes  of practice;  and where  appropriate, what I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the time.
27. This sale took place  in 1998, before the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general  
insurance products like this became regulated by the Financial  Services  Authority 
(FSA) in January 2005. So the GISC  code, the FSAs (and FCAs)  overarching  
Principles for Businesses  and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS)  are not 
applicable to this complaint.
28. The credit agreement itself conclud ed no later than 2006 . That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out at s140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevi n1 about S140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  
by the FCA recently about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclo sure of 
commission in the light of the Plevin  judgment, are not applicable.
29. But there were  a number of publications in existence at the time, which  I am 
satisfied are applicable  to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular:
The Association  of British  Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practic e for 
all intermediaries  (including  Employees  of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code
30. First introduced in 1989  and updated  in March 1996, the ABI Code set out a 
framework of general principles  within which ABI members and intermediaries 
were expected  to sell general  insurance,  including payment protection  policies like 
this. Among other things it said, that:
 It shall be an overriding obligation of an intermediary at all times to 
conduct business with utmost good  faith and integrity.
 The intermediary shall:
 ensure as far as possible  that the policy proposed  is suitable  to the 
needs and resources of the prospective policyholder.
 explain all the essential provisions of the cover afforded by the policy,  or 
policies, which he is recommending, so as to ensure as far as possible 
that the prospective policyholder understands what he is buying.
 draw attention to any restrictions and exclusions applying  to the policy.
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
31. The ABI also issued guidance  to member  companies on the application  of the ABI
Code and a note summarising the main points  of that guidance.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited  [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN0171454832. The Guidance Notes for Intermediaries issued in December 1994  included:
When selling  insurance intermediaries must
...2.5 Explain the essential provisions  of the insurance cover,  draw  attention  to any 
restrictions and exclusions under it, as well as the consequences of non-
disclosure
2.13 If an independent intermediary, disclose commission on request
33. The Resum for Intermediaries published  in July 1999   after the sale of Mrs Ps 
policy, but relating to the ABI Code  in place at the time of the sale  explained how 
insurers should interpret some  of the key requirements of the code including:
Explain all the essential provisions
It is necessary for the intermediary (insurer, if dealing direct)  to provide an 
overview of the policy.  The detail will vary depending on the particular class of 
insurance. However, the proposer should have a reasonable understanding  of 
what he is buying, whether this is explained  orally or whether he is given a 
summary and his attention drawn to the main points. In this respect, it is important 
to recognise the responsibility under the ABI Statement of General Insurance 
Practice that insurers will work towards clearer policy wordings.
The intermediary is not expected to go through all the provisions and exclusions in 
detail. The important  feature is to identify the level of cover being provided  (for 
example, in the case of household contents  whether it is indemnity or new  for 
old), that the type of policy being sold suits the circumstances of the proposer and 
the level of protection they are seeking as far as possible. It is not good enough 
simply to offer,  for example, an indemnity basis of cover without explaining the 
limitations and, indeed, that other options  are available, unless, of course, the 
proposer wittingly asks for that type of cover.
Draw attention  to any restrictions and exclusions
The same general principles outlined above  apply equally here.  Certain 
exclusions, conditions,  restrictions etc. under a particular  policy  will be common  to 
all policyholders, for example,  a condition about  fraud. In those circumstances, it 
would not be necessary  to identify these  other  than by reference to general 
exclusions applying to all policyholders of a particular type of insurance, either 
orally or in policyholder documentation.
However, some will be more relevant  and, indeed, significant to certain  but not 
other policyholders. An example would be where benefit to self-employed  people 
is either excluded  or severely restricted for redundancy cover under a creditor  
insurance policy. Clearly, self-employed people should be made  aware of this so 
they can decide whether the other benefits  under the policy and the premium  to be 
paid justifies taking out such a policy.
The ABI Statement  of Practice  for Payment  Protection  Insurance
Ref: DRN0171454934. The ABI also published a statement  in December  1996 about PPI. Among 
other things, it said:
Providers will give sufficient detail of the essential provisions of the cover afforded 
by the policy  so as to ensure, as far as is possible, that the prospective insured 
person understands what he/she is buying.
In particular:
the suitability of a contract  will be explained to those who are self-employed, those 
on contract or part time work,  and those with pre-existing medical conditions;
details of the main  features  of the cover as well as important and relevant 
restrictions will be made available and highlighted at the time the insurance is 
taken out with full details  being sent afterwards;
all written material will be clear and not misleading;
full details of the cover will be provided as soon as possible after completion of 
the contract.
35. I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice 
expected of intermediaries  like Lloyds at the time.  
36. So I am satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and the other publications into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
Mrs Ps case. 
The law
37. I have also taken  account of the law, including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract  (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable  skill, care and diligence);  the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good  faith; and the law relating to causation  and 
remoteness.
38. I have considered carefully  Wilson  Tarquins representations about the law, 
including those set out in its letter about Mrs Ps complaint of 8 March  2018.
The approach taken  by former schemes
39. Under the transitional  provisions2 which continue to apply to complaints like this 
about acts or omissions before 1 December 2001, I am also required to take into 
account what determination  the relevant former scheme   in this case the Office of 
the Banking Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an 
equivalent complaint.
40. In that respect it is of note that, among other things, under  the Banking 
Ombudsmans terms of reference:
2 The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman
Scheme and Complaints  Scheme) Order  2001 (SI 2001/2326)
Ref: DRN017145410 The Ombudsman was required to decide  complaints by reference to what  was, 
in his opinion  fair in all the circumstances.
 The Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of law or 
relevant judicial  authority.
 The Ombudsman was required to have regard  to the general principles of 
good banking  practice and any relevant code of practice applicable  to the 
subject matter of the complaint.
 The Ombudsman could make money awards,  but No award shall be of a 
greater amount than in the opinion of the Ombudsman is appropriate  to 
compensate the complainant for loss or damage or inconvenience suffered by 
her by reason  of the acts or omissions  of the Bank against which  the award is 
made.
The FCAs guidance  for firms Handling PPI complaints  - DISP  App 3
41. I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, 
first issued  by the FSA in 2010,  which sets out how firms  should  handle complaints 
relating to the sale of payment  protection contracts like Mrs Ps.
42. The sale took place  before insurance mediation became an FSA-regulated activity  
in January  2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the evidential 
provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were  guidance when considering  Mrs Ps 
complaint.
43. I note DISP  App 3 includes  guidance  for firms about assessing a complaint  in order 
to establish whether the firms conduct  of the sale fell short of the regulatory and 
legal standards expected at the time of the sale - referred  to as breaches or 
failings. It did not impose new, retrospective, expectations about selling standards.
44. DISP App 3 also contains guidance for firms about determining  the way the 
complainant would have acted if a breach or failing by the firm had not occurred. 
In relation  to that it says:
DISP App 3.1.3 G
Where the firm determines that there was a breach  or failing, the firm should  
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment protection  
contract in the absence  of that breach  or failing. This appendix establishes 
presumptions for the firm to apply  about  how the complainant would have acted if 
there had instead  been no breach or failing by the firm. The presumptions are:
(1) for some breaches or failings (see DISP  App 3.6.2 E), the firm 
should presume  that the complainant  would not have bought the 
payment protection contract he bought;  and
(2) for certain  of those  breaches or failings (see DISP App 3.7.7 E), 
where the complainant  bought a single premium payment  
protection contract, the firm may presume  that the complainant  
Ref: DRN017145411would have bought a regular premium payment protection contract  
instead of the payment  protection  contract  he bought.
DISP App 3.1.4 G
There may also be instances where  a firm concludes after investigation that, 
notwithstanding breaches or failings by the firm, the complainant would 
nevertheless still have proceeded to buy the payment protection  contract he 
bought.
DISP App 3.6.1 E
Where the firm determines that there was a breach  or failing, the firm should  
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment protection  
contract in the absence  of that breach  or failing.
DISP App 3.6.2 E
In the absence of evidence to the contrary,  the firm should presume that the 
complainant would not have bought  the payment protection contract he bought if 
the sale was substantially flawed, for example where the firm:
(4) did not disclose to the complainant, in good time before the sale was 
concluded, and in a way that was fair, clear  and not misleading, the 
significant exclusions and limitations, i.e. those that would  tend to 
affect the decisions of customers generally  to buy the policy;
(8) did not disclose to the complainant, in good time before the sale was 
concluded and in a way that was fair, clear  and not misleading, the 
total (not just monthly) cost of the policy separately from any other 
prices (or the basis for calculating it so that the complainant  could 
verify it);
(10) provided misleading or inaccurate  information  about the policy  to 
the complainant;
DISP App 3.6.3 E
Relevant evidence  might include the complainants demands, needs and intentions 
at the time of the sale and any other  relevant evidence, including  any testimony by 
the complainant  about his reasons at the time of the sale for purchasing the 
payment protection contract.
Overall
45. Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems  to me that the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding what is in my opinion  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, are:
 If Lloyds gave  advice, whether it advised  Mrs P with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given 
her needs and circumstances.
 Whether Lloyds gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  her attention  to and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not 
Ref: DRN017145412misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and the significant 
limitations and exclusions.
 If, having considered  these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mrs P, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider would amount  to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
46. Mrs P says Lloyds ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have  gone  further  than I have 
suggested when providing  information.  I shall address Mrs Ps representations 
about this later on.
b)  The sale  what actually happened?
47. Not surprisingly given the passage of time since Mrs P took out the policy,  it is 
not entirely clear how she came  to take out the policy  and what  information  or 
advice (if any) Lloyds gave her about  it.
48. Mrs P completed a PPI Questionnaire (PPIQ) and submitted it to Lloyds when 
making her complaint. In it, she says she took out the policy during a meeting  at a 
Lloyds branch.  
49. I note Mrs P did not complete the section of the PPIQ that asked whether Lloyds 
advised her to take out the policy. I can understand if that is because Mrs P does not 
remember either way, given the sale took place  over 20 years  ago and she may well 
have paid only brief and passing attention to it at the time.
50. I have explained above that Lloyds  cannot  confirm how the policy was sold to Mrs P 
but has assumed  that it advised  her to take it out in doing so. If anything, Lloyds 
position on this point favours  Mrs P because, as well as having to provide her with 
enough information about the policy, it had to take steps to ensure it gave her suitable 
advice. In the absence of evidence  to the contrary I have considered  the complaint on 
the same basis, and as though the policy was sold during  a meeting as Mrs P recalls.
51. Lloyds  has provided a copy of Mrs Ps signed application form dated 1998, which 
also includes a tick asking for payment  protection cover.
52. Lloyds  has also referred to the Certificate  of Insurance  which includes details of the 
policy. Presumably  this would normally have been sent once the application for the 
credit card and payment  protection contract had been processed and approved, 
rather than provided  at the meeting.
53. Having  considered  the representations  of both sides,  and keeping in mind the 
limitations on the evidence available about what happened during a meeting over 
20 years ago, I find:
 While  it is possible Mrs P simply filled the application form without any face-to-
face contact with Lloyds, as I have already explained, it is more likely  than not 
that it resulted from a visit she made to the branch in 1998.
 While  it is possible that Lloyds might not have provided any advice to Mrs P, it 
is more likely than not that it did  given Lloyds  own representations that it 
Ref: DRN017145413recommended the policy  to Mrs P and the lack of any submissions from Mrs P 
to the contrary.
 The application form included  very few details  about payment  protection cover.
 It is likely Lloyds did not provide  Mrs P with the Certificate of Insurance 
until after it approved  her card application.
c)  did things happen as they should in 1998?
54. For reasons I shall explain,  I consider it is more likely than not that Lloyds fell short 
of what was reasonably expected of it. Exactly how,  and the extent to which,  Lloyds 
fell short and its relevance to Mrs P, is in my view important to my consideration of 
the question  which  ultimately  lies at the heart of this complaint: would Mrs P have 
acted differently  if Lloyds had advised and explained things properly?
55. Having considered the evidence from the time of sale and the parties 
representations about  what happened, I am satisfied it is more likely than not that 
Mrs P agreed  to the policy Lloyds recommended,  knowing  that she did not have to 
take it out.
56. In reaching that conclusion, I note the credit card application form invited  Mrs 
P, under the heading Optional Features,  to indicate  whether or not she 
wanted the payment  protection plan. It asked her to tick a box if she wanted  
the policy.
57. The copy provided by Lloyds indicates Mrs P ticked the box to say she wanted the 
policy.
58. The application form does  not say the insurance is compulsory and, by having  to tick 
to take out the insurance,  I am not persuaded Mrs P would have been given the 
impression that she did not have a choice about whether to take it out or not.
59. On the balance  of probabilities, I consider it more likely than not that the adviser 
presented the policy as an optional extra to the credit card,  albeit insurance  the 
adviser recommended Mrs P take out. I am not persuaded it is more likely than not 
that the Lloyds  adviser incorrectly  (or inadvertently) told Mrs P she had to agree to 
the policy for the credit  card to be approved, or that the insurance  was an 
inseparable feature  of the card.
60. I have concluded Lloyds recommended  the policy to Mrs P, so I consider it 
appropriate to consider  whether it advised  Mrs P with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
61. I cannot  say for certain what steps  Lloyds  took to establish whether the policy was 
a suitable recommendation  for Mrs P. It seems Mrs P cannot  remember clearly 
what happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser 
had some  limited  information about Mrs Ps financial circumstances, but there  is 
no specific evidence  to show that the adviser took steps to establish whether 
Mrs P would have  been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations which  
Ref: DRN017145414might have meant the policy  did not fully meet her needs. For example, there is 
nothing to suggest  Lloyds  considered whether Mrs P had any pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
62. Overall,  on the balance of probabilities  I am not persuaded that Lloyds did all it 
should have  done  to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs P given her 
circumstances. So in that sense,  I am not persuaded  Lloyds advised with reasonable 
care and skill.
63. While  I am not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done to determine whether 
the policy was suitable for Mrs P, I am satisfied  it is more likely than not that the 
policy was ultimately  suitable for her, given  what I am satisfied were Mrs Ps needs 
and circumstances at the time. In reaching  that conclusion I have taken into
consideration:
 Mrs P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
 Mrs P had a need for the policy  it seems likely  that Mrs Ps ability  to continue  
to meet  her credit card repayments would have been put under strain if she 
were not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing for the sick 
pay she was entitled to. The policy would have helped Mrs P manage the 
consequences were she unable  to work.
 The monthly cost of the policy, at no more than 79p per £100  of the outstanding 
balance, appears to have been  affordable for Mrs P.
 The exclusions and limitations did not make the policy unsuitable for Mrs P.
There was nothing about Mrs Ps employment  or occupation which  would have
made it difficult for her to claim.  There were  also no additional restrictions  on 
the cover  for mental health or back problems. Regarding pre-existing medical  
conditions, Mrs P has told us about her health  prior to the sale. But I am not 
persuaded this would have been  a significant consideration for her as it had 
only caused her to take time off school many years before  the sale and did not 
affect her ability to work. Although Mrs P said she had an operation before the 
sale which led to her taking time off work,  she could not say when that was. 
Furthermore, none of the conditions she mentioned appear to have needed 
ongoing treatment.  
 While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum  of 12 months for 
each claim for disability, unemployment or hospitalisation, it still provided  
valuable cover given  Mrs Ps circumstances and the fact the policy  could 
have cleared her outstanding card balance.
64. I have also considered whether, when providing advice, Lloyds gave Mrs P sufficient 
information about the cover  provided by the policy to enable her to understand  what 
Lloyds was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice and take out the policy.
65. I am satisfied it is more likely than not that Mrs P was given  a very broad description 
of what the policy  was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would  protect her 
card payments  in the event she was unable  to work through  disability or 
unemployment). I have reached  this conclusion  because I think Mrs P would have 
been told this  at the very least  during the discussion  with the adviser. I think  it is 
unlikely Mrs P would have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy 
Ref: DRN017145415was. The application  form she signed  also described  the policy as a Payment 
Protection Plan, which would have given  her some idea of what  the policy was for.
66. But the evidence from the time of the sale does not tell us whether Lloyds gave  
sufficient information  about  the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost (the fact that 
the premiums  would be added to the account balance, attracting  interest  if unpaid  at 
the end of the month, and were payable during a claim)  or about the exclusions  and 
limitations, before Mrs P agreed to take out the policy. The limited evidence there is 
does not suggest  that Lloyds  can rely, for example, on a policy  summary  set out in 
an accompanying leaflet with the credit card application to deliver that information. If 
Mrs P spoke to an adviser,  I think it is more  likely than not that she based her 
decision on the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given  
particularly as it does not seem  likely  that Mrs P would have had an obvious 
opportunity during a meeting to have  been  able to take the time to read and digest 
the information in a summary before deciding to take out the policy.
67. While  I think Lloyds probably sent Mrs P the full policy conditions which gave 
information about the benefits,  limitations and exclusions after she applied  for it, I 
do not consider that means  Lloyds gave  Mrs P the information she fairly and 
reasonably needed  to make an informed decision  about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy. I am mindful:
 Mrs P did not base  the decision she made  during  the meeting and discussion 
to take out the policy  on the full policy conditions.
 There is nothing to suggest  Mrs P was told that she should delay making a 
decision about the policy until she had received and considered the contents of 
that document.
 It was for Lloyds  to provide her with the most important  information she 
required to make his decision before he took out the policy  (see the 
information about good practice  I set out earlier).
68. Overall,  having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while I 
am satisfied that the policy  was a suitable  recommendation for Mrs P, I am not 
persuaded Lloyds  did enough to present information about the policy  it was 
recommending in a way that was fair and reasonable  to Mrs P. I am not persuaded
that Lloyds gave Mrs P all of the information  she needed about the policy  to make 
an informed decision about  whether  to follow the recommendation and take out the 
policy.
69. I have considered how my findings  interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings 
in its guidance  for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP  App 3.
70. It seems to me that it would be reasonable to conclude  that there were significant 
failings in this case. Lloyds did not, for example, disclose  to Mrs P before the sale 
was concluded,  and in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading, the significant 
limitations and exclusions that would tend to affect the decision of customers  
generally to take out the policy [DISP App 3.6.2  E (4)]. 
71.Lloyds may also have failed to disclose the cost information  envisaged  at DISP 
App 3.6.2 E (8). Lloyds did not refer to how the premium was calculated in the 
application form  a very important  piece of information. It could have made 
Ref: DRN017145416clearer the fact that Mrs P would continue to be charged premiums during a claim 
and that the premiums would attract interest.
72. I have carefully considered Mrs Ps arguments  that Lloyds should have done more  
than I have  found  it should  have done and provided additional information. I have 
given particular thought to Mrs Ps view that the common law duty of utmost  good 
faith meant that:
 Lloyds should have  explained the low claims ratio (and what she considers to 
be the inherent poor value)  and the fact much of the premium went to Lloyds 
rather than the insurer.
 Lloyds should  have told her, not just about  the limitations and exclusions, 
but also about the significance of them.
Lloyds did have to consider the features of the policy and weigh up the significance of 
the exclusions and limitations to ensure the policy it was recommending was suitable  
for Mrs Ps needs and resources and it also had to explain  the features  of the cover. 
But I am not persuaded  by Mrs Ps views about  what the duty of utmost  good faith 
required.
73. Under the law which  existed at the time, both parties to an insurance  contract  owed a 
duty of utmost  good faith to the other.  By way of summary only,  both parties had 
duties to disclose  material  facts and to refrain from making  material 
misrepresentations to the other.
74. Usually, the focus of any dispute tends to be on the extent of the obligations  the 
duty of utmost  good faith places  on the person seeking insurance to disclose to the 
insurer the information  it needs to determine and calculate the risk it will be taking if 
it agrees  to provide the insurance.
75. But an insurer also has a duty to disclose:
...all facts known to her which are material either to the nature of the risk sought to 
be covered or the recoverability of a claim under the policy  which a prudent insured 
would take into account in deciding  whether  or not to place the risk for which he 
seeks cover  with that insurer.3
76. MacGillivray  on Insurance Law4 explains that the duty does not extend  to giving the 
insured the benefit of the insurers market experience  such as, for instance, that the 
same risk could  be covered  for a lower  premium either by another insurer or, 
presumably, by the same insurer  under  a different type of insurance contract; and 
the insurer is not required to perform the role of the insureds  broker in this regard.
77. I cannot  be certain,  but I think it is unlikely a court  would conclude  an insurer  should 
have disclosed  the claims ratio and value information, or contextualised the 
information about the limitations on disability cover in the way Mrs P says Lloyds 
should have  done  by virtue  of the duty of utmost good faith.  In any event, I do not think 
3 Banque Keyser Ullmann SA v Skandia (U.K.)  Insurance Co. Ltd [1990] 1Q.B. 665, 772
4 MacGillivray on Insurance  Law 14th edition 17-094
Ref: DRN017145417it would  be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case  to impose such  
requirements on Lloyds.
78. Lloyds was not the insurer  in this transaction. Regardless, the ABI Code also 
referred to an overriding  duty on the intermediary  to act with utmost good faith and 
integrity.
79. The Guidance Notes for Intermediaries and the Resume  for Intermediaries about the 
application of the ABI Code,  which I have referred to in this decision, do not refer to 
that duty, or elaborate on what it was intended to mean. But I think  it is unlikely  that it 
was intended  to place a greater, or substantially different, obligation on the 
intermediary to that owed by the insurer.
80. I consider it more likely than not that the reference to an overriding duty on the 
intermediary was a reminder of the importance  of disclosing material information  to 
both the insurer  and the insured (depending on whom the intermediary  was acting 
for), reflecting  the legal duty those parties were  under.  And it seems likely the 
provisions of the ABI Code were  in effect intended to be practical  examples  of how 
the intermediary  might meet the overarching principles  of utmost  good faith and 
integrity as well as expected  standards of good practice.
81. I also note there was no expectation at the time, under the provisions of the ABI 
Code, that insurers or intermediaries should  proactively disclose  commission. For 
example, the guidance  to the ABI Code published in December  1994  said only that 
independent intermediaries should disclose commission  on request.
82. Nor do I consider  it can reasonably  be inferred  from the ABI Statement  of Practice  
for Payment Protection Insurance (which  gave further information about the 
expectations in PPI sales) that insurers or intermediaries were expected to disclose 
the kind of information Mrs P says Lloyds should have done.
 
83. So it seems very unlikely that it was ever the intention of the ABI Code that 
intermediaries should  provide the kind of additional information Mrs P suggests  it 
should. In any event, I am not of the view that it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case to impose a greater,  or substantially different, obligation 
on the intermediary  to that owed by the insurer.
84. Overall,  taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of good practice 
applicable to this complaint, I am not persuaded that Lloyds ought fairly and 
reasonably to have provided the additional  information Mrs P says it should  have  
done.
85. But, for the reasons and in the ways I have set out, I find the information Lloyds 
gave Mrs P was insufficient.  Lloyds failed to explain  in a clear  way all the features of 
the policy it was recommending,  so the information Mrs P based her decision on 
was incomplete. I am not persuaded that was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
d)  what  effect did Lloyds shortcomings  have on Mrs P?
to what extent did Mrs P suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ref: DRN01714541886. I have found Lloyds did not do all it should  fairly and reasonably  have done when it 
sold this policy  to Mrs P, so I have considered whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude  Mrs P suffered loss and damage as a result.
87. While  I am not persuaded that Lloyds  took the steps it should have done to 
establish whether the policy it recommended was suitable for Mrs P, I have found 
that the policy was ultimately  suitable for her.
88. In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mrs P has suffered loss 
or damage in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained 
things properly, Mrs P would have acted  differently, or whether she would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
89. Mrs P says she would not have taken out the policy  and I should, in any event, 
presume that she would not have taken it out given  the substantial  failings  in the 
sales process I have  identified (unless Lloyds can produce evidence to show he 
would have taken out the policy,  which Mrs P says it cannot because its failings were  
so fundamental).
90. I have considered the representations of both sides  and the evidence  relating to 
this carefully.
91.  Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer 
to weigh up a number  of factors before deciding whether to proceed.
92. Effectively the consumer has to weigh up the advice to take out the policy,  the cost 
of doing so given  the benefits offered in return and the potential  consequences they 
will suffer if they do not have  insurance,  should the risks come  to fruition.  That is 
why it was for the intermediary  to provide  the information about the policys features 
when recommending the policy, so the consumer could make that assessment.
93.  The evidence  in this case suggests  that Mrs P clearly  had some  interest  in taking 
out payment protection insurance.  In saying that, I do not mean she actively 
sought insurance or that it was her intention to take out insurance before she 
applied for the credit card  I have seen  nothing to suggest she did.
94. Rather, I mean when Lloyds advised her that there was a suitable product she 
could buy that would protect  her credit card payments  in the event that she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  that resonated  
with her in some  way and she concluded that she wanted that product.
95.  The issue here is that the decision she made  about whether to accept Lloyds 
recommendation was based  on incomplete  information, meaning what  she thought 
she was getting  is not exactly what she got. And she would have had different things 
to weigh up when  deciding to take out the policy if Lloyds had told her everything  it 
should have  done  about the policy it was recommending.
96. I consider that, in deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case  and whether 
Mrs P suffered loss or damage  as a result, the evidence about the extent to which 
the product differed  from what Mrs P might reasonably have  expected based on what  
she was told, is relevant to the consideration of what  would have happened.
Ref: DRN01714541997.  In this case, as I explained earlier, I am satisfied from the evidence about Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong 
or unsuitable  for her.
98.  While Mrs P was interested in the policy, was eligible  and had good reason  for 
wanting cover, the policy  did not work entirely  as she thought.
99.  Mrs Ps own evidence or testimony is that she would have got sick pay for a time 
but she had no other means to help her make the credit card payments along  with 
the rest of her usual  outgoings.
100.  I think it is reasonable to conclude that, from Mrs Ps perspective, she saw some 
benefit in having  insurance,  and it would have been reasonable for Lloyds to 
recommend it to her. If the risk the policy was concerned about came  to fruition, the 
policy would help her manage the consequences. It would  help her reduce her 
outgoings during  what would likely be a difficult period, even though  she may have 
been able to manage  for a time with her employment benefits,  especially if she 
suffered disablement. As well as meeting the monthly payments, the policy  would 
reduce her outstanding credit card balance each  month  by a significant amount, as 
the table  I set out earlier in this decision shows, clearing the balance if the claim 
lasted for a year.
101.  In relation to the costs, I cannot see where Lloyds told her about an important part of 
the cost information   that the policy cost (no more than) 79p per £100 of the 
outstanding balance  each month.
102.  As Mrs P says,  Lloyds also did not explain that she would continue  to be charged  for 
the policy in the event of a claim, or spell out that that the premiums were  added  to 
the account balance  (so would attract interest). On the other hand, there was no 
suggestion the premiums would be paid in some other way, and presumably they 
appeared on her statements, so it is possible  Mrs P might have expected  this.
103.  Overall I am not persuaded Mrs P would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had 
been given  complete information  about the cost during the branch visit and 
discussion.
104.  In addition, Lloyds might not have made it sufficiently clear  exactly  what she would 
get back in return  if she made a successful claim. But as I have said, the 10% 
benefit had the potential to clear the credit card balance in certain circumstances. 
And given the section of the application form Mrs P signed described  the policy as a 
Payment Protection  Plan I think  this is what she would have broadly anticipated; if 
anything, 10% might have  been better than she expected if she only intended  to 
make the minimum repayment of 3% of the outstanding balance on the card each 
month.
105.  I am not persuaded Lloyds explained  the limitations and exclusions to Mrs P either. 
But I do not think  it is more  likely than not that the limitations and exclusions there  
were would have dissuaded Mrs P from taking out the policy.
106.  I do not think knowing about  the pre-existing medical condition exclusion and 
limitation would have deterred  Mrs P. As I have found, there is not enough 
Ref: DRN017145420evidence to demonstrate that the conditions Mrs P suffered with prior to taking out 
the policy would have been  a significant factor for her at the time of the sale.  
107.  The policy did not exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place any additional 
restrictions or more  onerous evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other disability  claim. And I think it is 
unlikely Mrs P would have expected to make a disability  claim on the policy  without 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
108.  So, while Mrs P did not know some things about the policy, I am satisfied the ultimate  
position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to what  she would 
reasonably have  thought from any advice and information she based her decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable.
109.  Mrs P has provided information  in her PPIQ  submission  to us about what she would 
have done with more information, which I have considered carefully.  She says:
Lloyds (lloyds) did not explain  the terms and conditions of the policy. 
In particular they did not tell me how much  the PPI really costs.  They  didnt explain 
the effects of compound interest being  charged  at credit card rates  which I now 
understand means the balance would  at least triple over a 10 year period  or that 
premiums would continue  during a claim.  I was never given any indication of this 
true cost or how expensive it would really be.
The point being that PPI was usually presented as being cheap  but I now 
understand that it was very expensive. I would not have bought the policy  if I had 
understood this. The exclusions and limitations  were also not explained  the 
reasons it would not have paid out. Wilson  Tarquin say Lloyds (lloyds) had a duty to 
explain these exclusions and limitations  in a way that an ordinary person like me 
would have understood. I can definitely  say that Lloyds  (lloyds) did not do this. 
Wilson Tarquin have further  explained  that a high proportion of reasons anyone  is 
likely to miss work were  excluded   in particular bad backs and mental conditions 
such as stress, depression and anxiety. These statistically are among the most 
likely reasons for anyone  being off work and I can say these exclusions were  not 
disclosed to me. 
If Lloyds (lloyds) had said that they were  excluding the most  common  reasons 
people miss work I can say that would not have wanted this PPI for that reason  
alone.
This policy was meant to protect me from sickness. It is obvious  that it was never 
going to do what  it was supposed to be for. It was supposed to protect payments if 
you couldnt work but would not have  done  that in a majority of cases.
Let me be clear  I would not have  wanted this policy had I been told this. And this 
was particularly relevant to me because in my job stress is commonplace and 
among the main reasons  people miss work. This makes it even more obvious  as 
these exclusions affected me personally.  In fact, I have suffered from back  
problems myself and have even sometimes missed  some time at work  because of 
them. On top of this, I also now understand pre-existing  conditions  were not 
Ref: DRN017145421covered. This sounds like a piece of jargon to me, but Wilson Tarquin have 
explained what it meant. I have had the following health problems:
Condition: bruise,  Date: circa 1972,  Treatment:  gp, hospital, Meds  (inc. non-
prescription): painkillers (paracetamol), Work missed: 1 month    
Condition: back pain,  Date: circa  1972, Treatment: gp, hospital, Meds (inc. non-
prescription): painkillers (paracetamol), Work missed: 1 month
So it turns out that bad backs might have  been  excluded TWICE  because  they 
were pre-existing and possibly excluded anyway. If the exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions had been explained  to me, it is clear  I would not have wanted this policy. 
In addition to the above,  there are more reasons as well why I now understand this 
PPI should not have  been sold to me, and why if it had been explained properly, I 
would not have wanted it.
In my job as [an] accounts administrator, I had sickness cover  see above.
So the PPI was expensive and really  unlikely to pay out and on top of that I was 
covered anyway.
On top of this I now understand  that on average, firms kept 86% of each premium  
payment as profit and expenses. The policy was appalling value for money. I am 
not in a position to waste  money  or make insurance businesses richer  at my 
expense. Everybody knows that companies  are entitled to make  a fair profit, but not 
an unfair one  I would  not have wanted  to be taken advantage of. I dont think  
anybody would. As well as everything else,  I was financially stretched. I was using  
a credit card for expenses of daily living, which shows this. I have often had to run 
an overdraft. In fact I have struggled to pay my debts and gone into arrears.  Wilson 
Tarquin say that for me, even more than anybody else, it was wrong  for me to 
spend money on this PPI which  was both really expensive, and unlikely to pay out. 
I dont think this PPI should  have been  sold to me and I would not have wanted it if 
it had been properly explained. Wilson Tarquin say that Lloyds (lloyds) were 
supposed to treat me fairly and not take advantage of me, but it cannot be right to 
sell a product like this without explaining the exclusions, and that they were  keeping 
so much money for something with so little value to me. I feel badly let down by 
Lloyds (lloyds). PPI was just included as part of my package with my credit  card.  I 
had no interest in PPI and would not have  had it if Lloyds (lloyds) had not included 
it with the package. 
110.  Mrs P is effectively saying that, as a result of what  her representative Wilson 
Tarquin has told her, both about what it considers should have happened and 
what she should have decided  at the time, she would not have taken out the 
policy.
111.  In light of the findings  I have already made,  I do not think  Mrs Ps representations 
demonstrate what she claims, because much  of the information she says would 
have affected  her decision  would not have been  known  to her at the time of sale 
if everything had happened as it should, and some  of the things she has 
Ref: DRN017145422mentioned would not have been  relevant to the decision  she was making. For 
example:
 There was no legal,  code, or good  practice  requirement on Lloyds to disclose 
the commission it received.
 I am satisfied the requirement for Lloyds in 1998 was to consider the features  
of the policy  and weigh up the significance of the exclusions and limitations to 
ensure the policy  it was recommending was suitable for Mrs Ps needs and 
resources. It also had to explain the features of the cover  as I have discussed.
 Mrs Ps medical conditions prior to the sale would not  as I have discussed  
been of significant concern to her due to their impact on her and lack of 
proximity to the sale.
 The policy did not  as I have already explained  restrict claims based on 
back or mental health conditions, unless they were pre-existing medical 
conditions.
112.  I am also mindful that: Mrs Ps recollections  of the sale are, owing to the 
significant passage of time, likely to be limited;  her representations about what  
she would  have done  are made in support of a claim for compensation; and the 
paragraphs I have  quoted resemble quite closely the consumer representations 
made in other cases where Wilson Tarquin represents the consumer.
113.  In deciding with appropriate information  whether to follow  the recommendation to 
take out the policy, I consider it fair and reasonable to think Mrs P would have 
weighed up various  other considerations, in particular  her overall financial 
circumstances and how she would  be affected  if she was not working. It is likely she 
would also have thought about whether  the cost to benefit proposition still worked 
for her.
114.  Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case  I consider it more  
likely than not that Mrs P would  still have taken out the policy.  The policy  was 
suitable for her, was sufficiently close to what she thought he was getting and 
provided benefits that would  help her manage the consequences if she were made 
unemployed, or unable  to work through disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it 
more likely than not that Mrs P would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
115.  I have considered  Mrs Ps representations  about causation and DISP App 3, 
including the general  opinion of Stephen Knafler  QC, provided by Wilson Tarquin on 
behalf of Mrs P. That guidance  is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration I take 
into account, along with many  other  things, when I decide what  is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable.
116.  I am mindful of the purpose of the guidance.  I do not think  it was ever intended to be 
at odds with the approach I have  taken. The FSA explained  its thinking in the policy  
statement5 at the time:
5 Financial Services Authority Policy Statement 10/12 The assessment and redress  of 
Payment Protection  Insurance  complaints  Feedback on the further  consultation in CP 10/6 
and final Handbook  text  page  44 - 45
Ref: DRN017145423we have taken  as a starting  point the typical approach in law (which we 
understand also to be the FOSs general  approach) that the customer  should be 
put in the position  they would  have  been in if there had been no failure  to comply 
with its obligations  on the part of the firm. Typically that involves considering  what 
the customer would have done  but for the firms  breach  or failing. Firms have also 
been making such but for judgements  for many years, it being the basic tenet  of 
complaint handling. Complaints about PPI are not new or unusual in this respect. 
We are satisfied that the but for test is a reasonable one in the circumstances.
The presumptions represent a way of judging what a customer  would generally have 
done, in our view.  Having  given due consideration to responses concerning 
presumptions we remain of the view that the presumptions we have set out are 
reasonable ones fully in the tradition of, and informed by, the kinds  of judgements 
that courts and ombudsmen have long and often  been making when assessing 
claims and complaints and the potential need to put the claimant, as far as 
practicable, back in the position they would have been in had the breach  not 
occurred.
We also recognise that it would not be possible  to establish in every case what a 
customer would have  done in every individual  circumstance and that there has to 
be scope for a firm to depart from the presumptions. So, the presumptions  are 
rebuttable  that is, it is open to the firm to evidence that the customer  would 
have bought the policy notwithstanding the breach or failing, in which case  no 
redress will then be required.
117.  It also said:
A recording  of the sale is not essential to rebut  the presumptions. Where it is not 
available, firms must fairly assess the available evidence  to make a decision 
about
what they think would have been likely to have  happened, but for the failing, given 
the circumstances and the evidence  from the sale. For example, if the firm failed 
to disclose the existence of an exclusion relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions, then it may be reasonable for the firm to rebut the presumption  that the 
customer would not have bought the policy if it can be shown that the customer  
did not have a pre-existing medical  condition.  It is unlikely that a recording of the 
sale would  elicit this information. The PPIQ,  if properly completed,  will however 
provide this information.
We have carefully considered, in light of responses, the proposed list of substantial  
flaws in the proposed  Handbook text. We are satisfied that the rebuttable  
presumptions cover substantial flaws and that our proposals are appropriate  
because in each  case the nature of the failing raises  serious doubts over whether  
the customer would have proceeded with the purchase if there had not been such a 
failing.
It is true that the presumptions do not make allowance  for the materiality of the 
failings. We consider that the failings amount to substantial  flaws irrespective of 
their materiality to particular consumers, and that it is reasonable and simpler for 
our guidance  not to differentiate the failings  in terms of materiality.  In practice, 
Ref: DRN017145424firms are likely  to be able to factor in considerations of materiality  when potentially  
rebutting the presumptions  in the case of a particular complaint. For example if a 
firm failed to disclose an exclusion, and if that exclusion did not apply to that 
customer at the time of the sale (something  which can be evidenced relatively  
straightforwardly with reference to the policy),  it may be reasonable for the firm to 
conclude (assuming there are no other failings)  that the exclusion was not material 
to that customer and that he would have bought the policy  anyway, 
notwithstanding the firms  failure to disclose the exclusion
118.  I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint 
might lead to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable 
to conclude there were substantial  flaws in the sales process. In those 
circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mrs P would not have  
bought the payment  protection insurance she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption.
119.  I am satisfied, applying DISP  App 3, it is reasonable  to conclude the presumption 
is rebutted in the particular facts and circumstances  of this complaint. Based on 
the evidence  pertaining to Mrs Ps circumstances  I have considered above I 
consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P found herself in as a result of 
the sale was the same position she would have  been in had the breach  or 
significant failings  not occurred.
120.  But even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms set out at DISP 
App 3 (which I do not consider I am), I am doing  so because I do not consider, in 
this case, that it would represent  fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she 
would have been in if she had not bought the policy.
121.  That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would  not have taken out the 
policy, I am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she 
would still have taken out the policy if her needs  had been assessed  correctly and 
she had been  given  clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy she 
was buying.
122.  I am satisfied it would not be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude that Lloyds should pay Mrs P redress, as that would put her in a better  
position than she would  have been  in had everything happened  as it should have 
done.
123.  It follows from my findings that, on the balance of probabilities,  it is more  likely than 
not that Mrs P would have  taken out the policy if things had happened as they 
should, and that I am not persuaded she has suffered loss or damage  as a 
consequence of the way this policy was sold.
124.  I have thought about whether it would be appropriate to make an award of some kind 
because of the flaws I have identified in the sale process, even though  I have  found  
Mrs P would still have  taken out the policy. I have  not seen anything in the evidence  
relating to this case which leads me to conclude that Mrs P suffered material  distress 
or inconvenience,  or any other form of non-pecuniary loss, because of the way the 
policy was sold.  In those circumstances,  I do not consider it would be fair for me to 
make an award.
Ref: DRN017145425my final decision
125.  Overall,  having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide  what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the 
reasons I have set out in detail above, my final decision is that I do not make  an 
award or direction  in favour of Mrs P.
126. I now ask Mrs P to either accept or reject my decision before  24 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0171454