K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has 
declined two claims under their residential  property owners insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Y own a number of properties  which  are let to residential  tenants. The police told 
them that two of their properties had been used  as cannabis factories. A number of people 
were arrested but not their tenants.  A lot of damage  was caused to both properties.
Mr and Mrs Y made a claim to LV in respect  of each property.  After  investigation LV declined  
the claims.  It said the policy  only covered  the illegal cultivation of drugs by the tenant or 
malicious damage by the tenant  and there  was no evidence that the tenants were involved in 
either activity. They also said Mr and Mrs Y were in breach of a condition  in their policy  that 
they should get written and verified  references  for their tenants and show  them  to LV if 
requested.
Mr and Mrs Y brought their complaint to this service.  Mr and Mrs Y referred  to a different 
section of their policy which provides cover against  damage by malicious persons. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold their complaint. 
In my provisional findings I looked at whether Mr and Mrs Y were entitled to claim under the 
cover for damage by malicious persons. I noted that this cover  is subject  to the following 
exclusion:
Excluding Damage

c) caused  by malicious persons whilst  any Building is Unoccupied.
It seemed to me that the damage  caused  by deliberately setting  up a cannabis  factory  at 
somebody elses property  was malicious.  And that somebody who caused this damage was 
a malicious person. But I also considered  whether the property could  be said to be 
Unoccupied  for the purposes of the policy.
The word  Unoccupied is defined  in the policy as:
Any Building  or part of any Building which is empty or not in use by the Insured or any 
Tenants of the Insured  for more than 60 consecutive days.
I didnt think Mr and Mrs Y had shown that the damage had been caused  before the 
buildings became unoccupied for the purposes of the policy.
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs Y provided  further  information  as to when 
the tenants had last been known to be definitely  in occupation. LV disputed  the accuracy of 
that information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06330542It appears to be common ground that at the time of the police raid in October  2017 the 
properties werent being lived in by the tenants  given  that the properties had been 
converted into cannabis factories.  Essentially, apart from the kitchens the rest of the houses 
were taken over to grow  plants. So I think it can be said that as at October 2017 the tenants 
werent using the properties theyd rented from Mr and Mrs Y.
One tenancy agreement started on 12 October 2015 and another  on 5 October 2016. I think 
its reasonable to assume that both tenants occupied their respective properties from the 
start of their tenancy. However, its not clear when they stopped  using the properties or when 
the properties were  converted into cannabis  factories. 
Mr and Mrs Y said all was in order  when  Mr Y visited the properties on 19 October  2016 
while their plumber carried  out gas inspections. They didnt  visit the properties again  until 
almost a year later after the police raid. Theyve  produced gas safety  certificates relating to 
the inspections  that they said took place in respect of both properties.
Its come  to light that the gas safety certificates  provided by Mr and Mrs Y were issued on a 
pad that was printed after October  2016  when the inspections  were said to have been 
carried out. When this was put to Mr and Mrs Y they provided a letter purporting to be from 
the plumber explaining that hed carried out the gas safety inspections  at the properties on 
19 October 2016 and issued  replacement certificates in 2017. It then came to light that this 
letter hadnt  actually been produced and signed  by the plumber. We attempted  to contact  the 
plumber to clarify this but he hasnt answered our enquiries. So Im not persuaded that we 
can rely on this evidence.
I havent seen  any evidence which shows when the tenants vacated the properties and when 
the criminal gang  set up the cannabis  factories. So unfortunately for Mr and Mrs Y I dont 
think theyve shown  that the damage was more  likely caused in the first 60 days  that the 
properties werent in use by their tenants. It follows that in my opinion  it was reasonable for 
LV not to pay their claims.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0633054