K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes their agents.
background
Mr P had car insurance with Calpe which had an all sections excess of £3,000. In May 2018,  
Mr P was driving his car on a single  lane road.  He said he wanted  to park so when  he saw a 
parking space to his left he indicated and started  to park.  He said there was a motorbike 
behind him which stopped, the rider fell over or drop[ped] the bike and approached him and 
a discussion took place which later turned into an argument.
Soon after Mr P was told the motorbike rider made  a claim against his policy  saying Mr P 
had cut across the riders path causing  the motorbike to fall over. Calpe  accepted Mr P was 
partly to blame for the incident and agreed  a 50/50  split liability  with the other insurer.  As    
Mr P had an all sections  excess of £3,000, Calpe asked  him to pay that. 
Mr P complained because  he felt Calpe had treated him unfairly.  But Calpe didnt uphold his 
complaint. Mr P brought  his complaint  to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. 
He felt that Calpe hadnt  treated  Mr P fairly. He suggested that Calpe  should  stop pursuing  
Mr P for the excess payment; change  all internal and external databases to show the 
incident as notification only; reinstate Mr Ps no claims bonus (NCB); if as a result of the 
claim Mr Ps premiums  increased,  refund any increase together with interest; and pay Mr P 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. As Calpe didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
Ive considered all of the information provided  to me by the parties carefully. In this decision I 
will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if Calpe have dealt 
with Mr P in a fair and reasonable way.
Under the policy, Calpe have  the discretion to settle  claims  as they feel appropriate without 
the need to get Mr Ps agreement. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Mr P said that he was driving  along a single  lane road when he indicated  to park in a 
designated parking space  to his left. He said to be able to do that he had to move  slightly to 
the right to give himself  sufficient berth  to be able to park. Mr P said the motorbike  was 
behind him and as Mr P slowed to park the motorbike stopped behind him and appears to 
have lost balance  but there was no contact.
In rejecting his complaint and explaining  why they accepted a 50/50 split in liability, Calpe 
said the motorbike  riders  claim  was that he was correctly riding  along  the road when Mr P 
drove up on the motorbikes right hand side in the same direction and then cut him up by 
Ref: DRN04799972turning left towards the parking spot.  That caused  the motorbike rider to lose control and fall 
which damaged  the motorbike.
Calpe instructed an investigator  who interviewed  Mr P and took a statement from him. The 
investigator concluded that the motorbike rider was 100% to blame for the incident and that 
Mr P wasnt  liable. But Calpe said their investigators opinion was based solely  on the 
account given  by Mr P and didnt take into consideration  the motorbike riders account. 
Calpe said they took into account  both versions  which is why they concluded a 50/50 split 
was fair.
But when the motorbike riders insurer  wrote  to Calpe in November 2018 to offer a 50/50 
split liability they said: After careful review we feel this claim would best be settled on a 
50/50 compromised  basis. The circumstances we have in our possession are that your 
Client has swung wide to park in a parking space and has collided with our Policyholder  who 
was riding behind your Client. This version is inconsistent with the motorbike  riders  initial  
version when he suggested he was ahead  of Mr P. But this version supports Mr P account 
that the motorbike  was behind him. 
As Mr P was ahead of the motorbike and was indicating, I think it was the responsibility of 
the motorbike  rider to keep a safe distance  which is accepted road traffic practice. The 
investigator said: [The motorbike rider] 100% is liable for failing  to observe [Mr P] indicating 
left and slowing  to enter a parking space. Irrespective of [Mr P] admitting to moving to the 
right of the single lane slightly, to allow for room  to manoeuvre into the space, does not 
negate the fact that the [motorbike rider] can either undertake [Mr P] or effectively create 
another lane,  on the assumption [Mr P] is turning right, given he has moved to his right.  The 
investigator concluded that the motorbike failed to wait for [Mr P] to perform a turn into a left 
hand parking space  and / or encroached into the nearside of the single lane where  [Mr Ps] 
vehicle was established and had the right of way. The investigator said Rule 163 of the 
Highway Code applied  and quoted  it saying:
Only overtake on the left if the vehicle in front is signalling to turn right,  and there is 
room to do so.
Not get too close to the vehicle you intend to overtake (although  [the motorbike] was 
about to undertake).
For the reasons  above, I don't think Calpe gave sufficient weight to the investigators  
evidence or of the fact that the motorbike rider apparently changed his evidence.  So, Im 
upholding Mr Ps complaint. I agree with the recommendations of our adjudicator  and I think 
to put things right Calpe should do the following:
Stop pursuing Mr P for the excess payment or any other payment.
Amend all internal  and external databases, including the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE)  database to show the incident as notification  only.
Reinstate Mr Ps NCB for that policy year,  provided there were  no other open or fault 
claims within that period.
If Mr P renewed his policy with Calpe  the following year and his premium increased 
as a result of the claim,  Mr Ps premium should be recalculated on the basis  of there 
being a notification only incident and with his NCB reinstated.  And if a refund in 
premium is due Calpe should  refund that together with simple interest at 8% a year 
from the date Mr P paid the premium until he is refunded. If Mr P didnt renew  his 
policy with Calpe  but went elsewhere,  Calpe  should  assist  Mr P by providing him with 
a letter  to show his subsequent insurer that the claim  has been changed to 
Ref: DRN04799973notification only and his NCB reinstated. Mr P can then ask his new insurer  to 
recalculate his premium to see if he is due a refund.
Pay Mr P £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. I 
think this whole  matter  has been a source of distress and inconvenience for him, 
especially as he received a letter from a debt collection agency  who were trying  to 
recover the excess Calpe  said Mr P owed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Calpe Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Stop pursuing Mr P for the excess payment or any other payment relating to the 
claim resulting from the May 2018 incident.
Amend all internal  and external databases, including CUE, to show the incident as 
notification only.
Reinstate Mr Ps NCB for the relevant  policy year,  provided  there  were  no other open 
or fault claims within that period.
If Mr P renewed his policy with Calpe  the following year and his premium increased 
as a result of the claim,  Mr Ps premium should be recalculated on the basis  of there 
being a notification only incident and with his NCB reinstated.  And if a refund in 
premium is due Calpe, should  refund that together with simple interest at 8% a year 
from the date Mr P paid the premium until he is refunded. 1 If Mr P didnt renew  his 
policy with Calpe  but went elsewhere,  Calpe  should  assist  Mr P by providing him with 
a letter  to show his subsequent insurer that the claim  has been changed to 
notification only and his NCB  reinstated. Mr P can then ask his new insurer  to 
recalculate his premium to see if he is due a refund.
Pay Mr P £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr P has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than that they must  also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Calpe consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr P how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0479997