K820x#14complaint
Ms N is unhappy with how Sainsburys Bank Plcs  handled her request for a payment holiday 
following a cancer  diagnosis.
background
Ms N entered into a fixed sum loan with Sainsburys in October  2016 for a period of 62 
months. She repays  nearly £800 each month.  She contacted Sainsburys in November 2017  
after being  diagnosed with cancer. She said she told Sainsburys that she wouldnt be 
earning for the next twelve to eighteen  months whilst she underwent surgery and treatment. 
She explained that she was looking for temporary relief during a very difficult time and 
wanted to know  what options were available  to her.
She said she wasnt in financial difficulty but needed  to balance her outgoings to cover the 
costs of any care and support. She said she could afford the full repayments but to do so 
would have reduced the amount she could  spend  on any care or support she needed  during 
periods of treatment  and post-surgery.
She was very clear that it was important that there was no impact on her credit file.
Sainsburys told her that it didnt offer payment holidays on its loan products. It agreed to 
reduce her monthly payments but said it could only do so by way of a new agreement.  It 
offered to restructure  the loan to reduce the monthly  payment to half the amount. It also 
offered to refer Ms N to its Customer Priority  Team to make  a payment arrangement but this 
wasnt acceptable to her as she didnt want her credit file affected.
It said it wanted to assist her and explained  that the way it could do this was to create a new 
bespoke loan. It required Ms N to complete a new application and sign a new credit 
agreement. It acknowledged that it was aware  that she found telephone conversations 
challenging because  of the treatment she was undergoing. However, as it was an online and 
telephone bank they could only complete  this bespoke offer by telephone.
It offered  to support Ms N in the application process by offering to have the call handled by a 
colleague who was fully briefed on her situation,  and also to do this in shorter conversations  
to accommodate  Ms N if she became stressed or overcome by the situation.
Ms N was unhappy  shed asked Sainsburys for help at a difficult  time and explained  why 
she didnt want her credit file impacted. And by applying  for a new loan,  a credit search 
would be made. She was also unhappy  that shed have to complete a full application when 
shed explained  how tough this process  was for her.
Shed been  clear to Sainsburys that she wasnt trying to avoid  repaying  her debt. She has a 
good credit  history and didnt want this to change because she has cancer.  She said that all 
she was seeking  was a suitable solution  for a good  customer with good credit  who had 
actively explained that she doesnt intend to miss a payment.
Our investigator felt that Sainsburys approach was fair and reasonable. He was satisfied 
that it had taken account of her circumstances and offered a loan tailored to meet her 
circumstances. He also accepted Sainsburys assurance that this loan wouldnt have a 
negative impact on her credit report.
Ref: DRN01036412Ms N disagreed so the matter has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Im satisfied that Sainsburys has shown a genuine willingness to assist  Ms N. It has offered 
a way in which she could reduce her monthly payments to the amount she asked. To do this 
it required her to complete  a new application  for a new loan.  But it had to conduct a credit 
check as it does for all new loans.
I understand why Ms N thinks  Sainsburys could have done  more for her. She has asked for 
assistance from her lenders in order to help her fund additional care and support during the 
period of intense treatment and recovery. She didnt ask for help because she was in 
financial difficulty. And I understand she has continued to make the full payments toward her 
loan.
I would expect a bank to accept a reasonable offer to repay  a debt from a consumer facing 
an income shock. In this case unlike many others, Ms N contacted the bank before she went  
into arrears. So I can understand her frustration with the process, and how she feels  that she 
has been lumped into the same category as borrowers who cannot pay.
I have considered the rules and guidance set out by the Financial Conduct  Authority.  The 
relevant rules are to be found in the FCA Handbook, in the section known as CONC.
CONC 7.3 requires  authorised firms  to treat customers  with appropriate  forbearance and 
due consideration. This section  is aimed  at the treatment of consumers who are in default or 
in arrears, and provides  examples of where the regulator expects the firm to allow lower 
payments and/or a longer period of repayment.  Ive said previously that I dont regard Ms N 
to be in financial difficulty  but I do consider her to be vulnerable  due to her health condition  
and would therefore expect Sainsburys to show her a similar  level of forbearance.
I also note a comment from UK Finance, the trade  association for the banking  industry,  of 
which Sainsburys is a member. In response to a report from MacMillan  Cancer  research it 
said The industry takes its responsibilities very seriously, looking to offer personalised help 
and support that responds to individuals  circumstances  sympathetically and positively.
Whilst it hasnt gone as far as Ms N would like, or expects, I am satisfied that Sainsburys 
has taken Ms Ns individual  circumstances into account, and it has treated her 
sympathetically. It may not have accepted the offer she initially made: to repay £350 per 
month until January  2019 when she expected to return to work. But it has offered to 
reschedule the loan.
Ms N is unhappy that Sainsburys  required her to complete an application,  at a time in her 
treatment when she said it was difficult for her to complete the necessary paperwork.  
Sainsburys acknowledged  this, and offered to assist her in the process, allowing the 
application to be completed over a number of telephone calls, at times that suited Ms N, and 
Ref: DRN01036413with a dedicated member  of its team  to help her. Im satisfied that it did consider Ms Ns 
situation, and developed  an approach tailored to her, adapting its standard  process  where it 
could.
Ms N was also concerned  that Sainsburys approach would have  a negative effect on her 
credit file. She was concerned that by conducting  a hard search in relation to the new 
application it would look like shed just applied for a new loan. I can understand  why she 
feels a simple request  for help has become a complicated process,  but again, I dont find the 
approach taken by Sainsburys to be unreasonable. Ill explain why.
It considered Ms Ns situation.  It told me that in suggesting the new loan, this was, in its 
opinion, the best option for Ms Ns credit file. This was because  showing one loan as 
satisfied, and a new one opened  on slightly different terms, was better  than recording a 
payment arrangement,  and better than showing arrears.
In one of its responses  to Ms N, Sainsburys told her that As a responsible lender we have 
to ensure we follow the guidelines and procedures  set by our regulators  when  providing  or 
rescheduling credit.
I have considered the relevant guidance set out in the Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements  and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies  (CRA)   principles 
agreed by the credit  industry in collaboration with the Information Commissioners Office. 
The guidance explains  to consumers that if they dont make the regular contracted  payment 
then the account may be reported  to the CRAs  as being in arrears.
And importantly, it states The purpose of reporting  arrears is to indicate  at the earliest  
reasonable opportunity that a customer is showing signs of potential  financial difficulty . I 
accept that Ms N says she wasnt in financial difficulty. But I think  it was reasonable for 
Sainsburys to conclude  that Ms Ns request for a payment holiday could demonstrate 
potential financial difficulty.
I agree  with Sainsburys that it would be expected  to notify  the CRA if Ms N hadnt met the 
monthly contractual agreed amount due to a payment arrangement.  This service and the 
relevant regulators  would normally expect  the banks to submit accurate information to the 
CRAs. And it would be for Ms N to add a note to her file setting out for future  lenders the 
reason for the arrangement. So, I accept that in these circumstances, offering a new loan, 
with the resulting credit search, was a fair and reasonable response for Sainsburys to make 
to Ms Ns particular circumstances.
I know this wasnt the outcome  Ms N hoped for or expected.  She contacted Sainsburys for 
help at a physically and emotionally  difficult time in her life, and expected it to be more 
helpful. Im persuaded that Sainsburys was keen to help, and whilst limited  in what it could 
do by its processes, has treated her reasonably and sympathetically.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN01036414Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0103641