K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  that [Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a PPI 
policy in February 2004.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  March 2019. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold, but explained  
why I was minded  to tell Nationwide to repay some of the cost of the PPI policy to Miss S. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. 
Both parties  confirmed they had received my provisional decision and agreed with it  and 
didnt add any further comments.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  agreed with my provisional  findings I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I initially reached. 
So Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S. But Nationwide 
will pay her some of the cost of the PPI.
putting things right
 Nationwide has to pay back to Miss S any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Miss S any 
extra interest she paid because  of that.
Nationwide should pay back to Miss S the extra she paid each month on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium  
including any extra Miss S paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should  also 
pay Miss S 8%* simple interest  on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss S can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN08957182my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
Despite this, Nationwide Building Society  does have to pay back to Miss S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I think this is a fair outcome to the complaint. But Ill consider any responses before making 
my final decision, as long as I get them by 15 May 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08957183EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED MARCH 2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss S case.
Im minded to say that this PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
 I think Nationwide  made  it clear that Miss S didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ive seen a copy  of the loan 
agreement that Miss S signed and returned  to Nationwide. It clearly  sets out the PPI separately to 
the loan itself, and shows how much extra  Miss S wouldve needed to pay for it. It also refers to 
the PPI as Optional Credit Insurance. Although Miss S didnt need to tick or sign anything to 
take the PPI, I dont  think  shed have signed the loan agreement if she didnt agree with the 
inclusion of PPI on it.
 Nationwide  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
 Its possible the information Nationwide  gave  Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I know Miss S has mentioned the cost of the PPI being  too high as she 
needed every penny she had at the time of sale, but as the cost was clearly shown to Miss S, I 
still think the PPI was affordable  to her. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would  
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Nationwide will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)   
so it should have  told Miss S about that. Because Nationwide didnt  tell Miss S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has basically  offered  to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Im mindful that the first adjudicator thought we should uphold this case because Miss S was a 
temporary worker when  she took the PPI, so she wouldnt have been  able to benefits from the PPI 
policys unemployment  cover.
Nationwide disagreed so another adjudicator reviewed the case and she then didnt agree the 
complaint should be upheld. She said that the exclusions relevant  to 
Miss S being  a temporary worker wouldnt have applied to her, because  Miss S had worked with the 
same employer for over two years.
I dont agree that the exclusions our adjudicator referred to wouldnt have applied because  of Miss S 
having worked  with her employer for over two years.  Having  looked closely at the policy, only certain  
sub-points of one of the unemployment  exclusions  wouldnt have  applied, given her length of service. 
Ref: DRN08957184But even so, Miss S has explained that after 12 months continuous employment shed have become 
a permanent employee,  even  though  she initially started working on a temporary  contract. As Miss S 
started with her employer in October 1998, and the PPI was taken in February 2004, shed clearly 
worked with her employer for over a year at the time she bought  the PPI. So, according to Miss S, 
shed have been classed  as a permanent employee. And even if this wasnt the case, it sounds as 
though she thought it was  so I think thats what shed have thought if Nationwide gave her 
information about this exclusion at the time.
So the unemployment  exclusions in question either wouldnt have applied  to Miss S, or even if they 
did, I dont think shed have  changed her mind and not taken the policy once  she knew about  that. I 
say this because it sounds  like she was under the impression  she was a permanent  employee rather  
than on a temporary  contract.
For this reason, and after having thought about  everything  carefully, I dont think this PPI was mis-
sold to Miss S. So I dont currently think that Nationwide needs to refund  everything she paid for it  
although as Ive mentioned  it does need to pay back some  of the commission it received for the sale 
of the PPI.
Ref: DRN0895718