K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
background
Mr Fs car was insured with UKI. On 2 November 2018, as Mr F was pulling out of a parked 
position his car was hit by another car that was travelling  along the main road. Mr F said the 
other driver was at fault because the road had a bend and she was speeding. The other 
driver said Mr F was to blame.
UKI felt Mr F was at fault for the accident,  so they paid the other drivers claim. The accident 
was recorded  as a fault claim against  Mr Fs record and his no claims bonus (NCB) was 
impacted.
Mr F complained. He said UKI didnt investigate the accident properly; they didnt give him 
the opportunity  to put his version of events forward or to get information from his witness; 
they didnt tell him they settled the claim;  UKIs  service was poor;  and his premiums 
increased.
UKI offered Mr F £40 compensation specifically in relation to him being  kept on hold for a 
long period of time during a phone call. But in relation to the other complaint points, UKI said 
they hadnt done anything  wrong.  Mr F didnt  think that was fair so he brought  his complaint 
to our service. One of our adjudicators looked  into it. She felt that UKI had dealt with Mr F 
reasonably. As Mr F didnt think that was fair, the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr F, but Im not going to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Fs points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what  I 
consider to be the key issues. My role isnt to decide  who was at fault for the accident, its to 
decide if UKI have  dealt  with Mr F in a fair and reasonable way.
Under the policy, UKI have the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate  without the 
need to get Mr Fs agreement. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a fair and 
reasonable way. I think UKIs decision to pay the other drivers  claim was reasonable.
Its a well established principle that where  a driver intends to pull out from a parked position  
onto a road where there  is another car that is already established and properly proceeding, 
the driver  pulling out has to ensure its safe to do so. And that is the approach  the courts 
take. Mr F said the other  driver  was to blame  because she was driving over the speed limit 
and the road had a bend in it, so she should  have been  more careful. But without any 
independent evidence that can conclusively show the other  driver  was speeding, it is 
extremely difficult to prove. UKI have  past experience of similar cases  and they are aware 
that the courts also take that view.
Ref: DRN02333442When Mr F reported  the accident to UKI he told them  he had a witness  who saw the 
accident. Ive listened  to that call in full. Mr F said hed lost the witness  number but he knew  
where they lived. He spoke with UKI on a Friday and said he would provide UKI with the 
witness details by Monday. But he never did. Mr F said he was expecting further contact 
from UKI to receive an accident report form and sketch to complete before he would provide 
the witness details  but he never heard back from UKI. But having  listened to the call 
carefully, UKI never  said they would send him anything.  Its clear  that Mr F assured UKI that 
he would  obtain  and provide them with the witness details but he didnt that.
UKI felt that they had enough  information on which to make  a decision that Mr F was at fault 
for the accident.  During the call with UKI, Mr F gave a full account  of what  had happened,  so 
UKI had his version of events. And even if the witness provided a statement saying the other  
car was speeding, UKI felt it would have  made  no difference.  Thats because of the reasons 
Ive explained  above. A lay persons opinion that a car was speeding, in the absence of any 
other independent,  convincing  evidence  (such as CCTV or expert evidence), is unlikely to 
carry much  weight before a court. So, I wouldnt  expect UKI to defend a claim such  as this in 
court that is likely to be costly where  they feel the prospects  of success  are weak.  And I note 
that UKI settled the claim on what is known as a without prejudice basis (WOP). That 
means that while UKI paid for the other drivers  damage,  they didnt admit liability  on Mr Fs 
behalf. That means that Mr F can, if he so wishes, take legal  action against  the other driver if 
he feels they were to blame for the accident.
Mr F said that he wasnt made aware that UKI would settle the other drivers claim. But UKIs 
claims handler did tell him during their conversation  on 16 November 2018, that on the 
description of the accident given by Mr F, he was at fault. Although when Mr F insisted he 
wasnt at fault and that he had a witness, UKI agreed to allow him time to get the witness 
details. UKI did write to Mr F the same  day as their conversation  on 16 November confirming 
they felt he was at fault for the accident.  And when Mr F didnt provide the witness details  as 
he promised, UKI wrote  to him again  on 19 December 2018 saying they would  settle the 
other drivers  claim because Mr F was at fault for the accident. I understand that Mr F said 
he didnt receive  UKIs letters. But Ive seen  that they sent them  to his correct  address. Ive 
also seen evidence that UKI called Mr F several times on his contact number and left voice 
messages asking him to call them. So, I think UKI made reasonable efforts to let Mr F know  
that they were  going to settle the claim. I think that even if Mr F did respond to the letters and 
calls and objected to UKIs decision,  it would  have made little difference because UKI had 
made their decision as they were entitled to under the policy.  
Mr F was also unhappy that when  his policy came to renew the following year,  his premium 
increased. I can understand  why Mr F was concerned  by that. But when UKI settled the 
claim the accident was recorded as a fault claim against Mr Fs driving  history  and his NCB 
was impacted. UKI said that including the 2 November 2018  accident, Mr F was involved in a 
total of four incidents in 2018 all of which resulted in claims against his policy. UKI said that 
those claims impacted his NCB and caused  his premium to increase. I have seen the 
information provided by UKI as to how they calculated Mr Fs premium. That information is 
confidential and is business sensitive, which is why it cant be shared with Mr F. But having 
seen it Im satisfied that UKI calculated Mr Fs premium reasonably  and they treated him in 
the same  way they would  any other  policyholder with the same circumstances. So, while  his 
premium increased I dont think UKI have done  anything wrong.
Finally, while  I can see that UKI offered Mr F £40 compensation for keeping  him on hold 
during a call for too long time, I think UKIs  service  overall has been reasonable.
Ref: DRN02333443my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0233344