K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in-branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for disability and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. Mr Ms overall package  of mortgage protection  included  critical 
illness cover   but hes not complained  about this, so this doesnt form part of this complaint 
or my decision.
The policy offered to repay just under £300 a month towards Mr Ms mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost around £17 a month.  
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a driver.  He told us he was not entitled to any sick pay 
and didnt have  any other means  of repaying his mortgage should he be unable  to work. In 
Mr Ms PPI questionnaire submitted when he first made his complaint, he said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. But in response  to the case handlers answer to his 
complaint, Mr Ms representative  provided  us with another questionnaire  this said Mr M 
had suffered with a medical condition in the past.  I will expand  on this later on. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2002 and that Mr 
M took out a further advance in 2007.  At the time of submitting its file, BoS said the 
mortgage was still running.
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN09408772The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr M arranged a further advance on his mortgage  after mortgage lending  became regulated  
in October 2004   this led to the whole mortgage becoming an FCA regulated  mortgage. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN09408773The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr M sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN09408774-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS hasnt got copies  of Mr Ms actual paperwork from the time of the sale  things did 
happen some time ago. But BoS has provided us with examples of the paperwork it says Mr 
M would have seen when he took out his policy.  And these show that a customer  would 
reasonably have understood they had a choice about PPI, and they would  have had to 
agree to take it out.
So, taking everything  into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something very different happened in Mr Ms case,  I think its more likely than not that Mr M 
understood the policy was optional and he agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure  
although I can understand why he cant remember doing so.
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it provided  advice during  this sale. And based on what  we know about how sales  
like Mr Ms were conducted  around this time, Im persuaded  that BoS did provide advice in 
this case.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M. It seems Mr M cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Mr 
Ms financial  circumstances from the mortgage application they would have completed. 
But there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps  to establish whether Mr M 
would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations,  which might have 
meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. 
And there is nothing to suggest BoS considered  whether Mr M had any existing means  he 
could have used  to make his mortgage payments.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M given his circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN09408775While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M had a need for the policy  his own testimony is that he would not have 
received any sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness, his redundancy 
benefits were likely to be limited and he didnt have any savings he could fall back  
on. I think Mr Ms finances would quickly be put under strain if he was not working   
so the policy  would  have helped Mr M manage  the consequences  if he was unable  to 
work.
-Although Mr M says he was financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ms employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  
for him to claim. Mr M, through  his representative, has latterly  said he suffered with 
back pain before the time of the sale (around  1987) and had to seek  medical advice. 
He said he had to take some  time off work as a result   he also went on to say that it 
caused him to leave  his previous job. 
While Im mindful of the apparent conflicting  information Mr M has given us about his 
health leading  up to the sale, his condition in any event doesnt  appear to be caught 
by the limitations  for pre-existing medical conditions.  This is because  the policy  terms 
and conditions say that this limitation  would not apply if the policy  was taken out at 
the same  time as the mortgage  as in Mr Ms case.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr M be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr Ms circumstances, 
the fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home and the 
potential consequences  should Mr M be unable to make  the repayments on loans  
secured against  his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr M sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through disability or unemployment  and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr M would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN09408776But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr M agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr M all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent did Mr M suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr M would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, Mr 
M would have acted differently, or whether  he would  have taken out the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN09408777Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear from the available evidence that BoS told him the exact 
premium at the point  Mr M applied  for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr M 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and he paid for the policy  for a 
couple of years, so if the costs were significantly at odds with his expectations at the point of 
sale, its possible he might have raised that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered his 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr M would  get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Ms expectations  about  
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN09408778I do accept there is a possibility the limitations above might well have  caused  Mr M pause for 
thought  
and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt as good as he thought,  and he 
might have decided  not to proceed. The limitations  on the cover,  when coupled  with the 
other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some  consumers  in slightly different 
circumstances from Mr M from taking  out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr M latterly suggested hed suffered from a 
medical condition  before the PPI was taken out, in Mr Ms case the policy didnt exclude 
cover for existing medical conditions. And I havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. So, I still think  he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M might 
reasonably have expected  albeit its unlikely Mr M would  have expected  to be able to make  
a disability claim without  having to provide some  evidence  to support that claim.
Ive given careful thought to what Mr M has latterly  said about  having back problems in the 
past; albeit Im mindful how much weight to place on this evidence given the apparent 
conflicting information hes given us about  his health. Having done so, it seems to me from 
what hes said that they were past problems. I say this because hes described having 
problems many years before the sale  15 years  or so before. And while he said his 
condition caused  him to leave his previous job, its not clear when that was and so how long 
his problems lasted  - hes not elaborated on that. Im mindful too that he said hed been  in 
his job for more than three years at the time of the sale, and hes not indicated  that he had to 
take time off work for this condition during this period. 
The policy didnt exclude claims for back pain and Ive already said that Mr M wouldnt have 
been caught by the pre-existing medical  condition limitation. So, while this limitation might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr M from taking  out 
the policy, I think Mr M, in his particular circumstances still had some good reasons to take it 
out  in particular the fact that he had no other  means at his disposal to make his mortgage  
repayments if he was unable to work. 
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any gainful occupation which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  become qualified  
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr M was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr M that any claim he made  would be limited  to a 24-month  period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for - but he didnt have 
any other means to fall back on. In those  circumstances, I consider it likely Mr M would still 
have thought a policy that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been  of 
benefit to him and would  help him manage the consequences should he be unable  to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be made 
Ref: DRN09408779and it could help reduce  his outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, ensuring  his home 
was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr M was made redundant, or unable to work 
through disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr M would have 
taken out the policy  in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. 
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
BoS should pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
Ref: DRN094087710statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr M, in the way it did, was insufficient  to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2002 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2020
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0940877