K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc (previously trading as Abbey National) will not pay 
him the money  he believes it still holds in respect of a Tax Exempt Special Savings Account 
(TESSA) which he opened in 1991.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision.
In summary,  Mr Ps complaint is in relation to his Tessa account that he opened  with Abbey 
National (now trading as Santander) on 29 April 1991. Mr P said in April 1996 he made a 
deposit of £9,000 and that this was the account  balance when he last checked the account 
at that time. The account number in question ends  023. 
Mr P says he revisited the account  in 2018. He was told by Santander  that the account had 
been closed on 11 April 2001 and a new account  was opened ending 821 under his name.  
The money had accumulated to £12,346 by the time of the transfer. He was told that this 
account had been closed  in the tax year of 2001/2002 as this was the last year Santander  
reported an interest payment of 85p to HMRC. Mr P is unhappy that Santander is unable to 
tell him where  the funds are being  held.
Santander said its records show that the account was closed on 11 April 2001  and the final 
balance of £12,346 was transferred to another account ending 821. This account closed in 
the 2001 to 2002  tax year. Santander  said that the account wasnt reported the following 
year, which suggests  it no longer existed. It said that as the account was closed a long time 
ago, it has no further records of what happened  to the money.
Mr P was unhappy with Santanders findings,  so referred  his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ps complaint. She was satisfied that Santander had 
made proper  attempts to locate  the account and the funds. She concluded that as Santander 
had found no record of the funds  and that this indicated  that the account had been closed 
some years ago.
Mr P was unhappy with the outcome reached  by the investigator.  He said that he was 
unhappy that Santander closed his account without  his consent and that the funds are no 
longer traceable. He says Santander should  refund him the money that was held in the 
account. So the matter was referred to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  Mr Ps complaint shouldnt be upheld. I 
invited both parties to tell me of anything  else they wanted me to consider before I finalised 
my decision.  Mr P made  a number of comments in response to my provisional  decision, 
which I thank him for. Santander had nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN07150312In my provisional decision I said the following:
As noted above, Mr Ps account was a Tax Exempt  Special Earnings Accounts (TESSA). 
The terms and conditions  of this account would  normally set out what would happen to the 
money on maturity. Typically, at the point of maturity  the bank wouldve written  to a customer  
a few weeks before,  and if it didnt hear from them it wouldve  taken action to close  the 
account. Any remaining  funds wouldve  defaulted  to an alternative  account such  as an 
instant access savings  account.
 
Santanders records show £12,346  was transferred from Mr Ps TESSA  account  into another  
account. Mr P says this was done  without his knowledge. Unfortunately,  due to the passage 
of time, Santander has no record of why the money was transferred to this new account. But, 
on balance, I think its likely it was done either  automatically at maturity or on the instruction 
of Mr P. And I think its likely this wouldve been set out in the terms of the TESSA.  So I dont  
think Santander did anything wrong by moving the money into another account.
This subsequent account closed sometime in the tax year ending April 2002.  But because  
more than seventeen years has passed, Santander has not been able to find account 
statements from that time. Banks are not required  to hold records  for more than six years, so 
I dont think this is unreasonable.
In this case, I consider that Santander has conducted a fairly thorough  investigation at 
Mr Ps request. And its my view it has provided  as full an account as possible given the time 
thats elapsed  since these accounts were  opened and closed. So I dont consider it unusual  
or suspicious that Santander  cant  provide  more  information.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have taken place.  Having done so, I consider  it most  likely  that the TESSA  was closed in 
2001. I think the funds were then transferred to another  Santander account  in Mr Ps name  
either by default  or by Mr P choosing to do so.
Further, I find, in all the circumstances and on the balance of probabilities, that when Mr Ps 
subsequent account was closed in 2001  or 2002, that the money was either transferred or 
withdrawn at this time. If whoever asked  the bank to do so, didnt  have the passbook  or other  
similar record of being the account-holder, Santander has confirmed it wouldve asked for 
one form of identification, such as a passport and one form of verification  of address. So 
although I think its possible  that someone  other than Mr P mightve  arranged  for the money  
to be transferred or withdrawn,  overall, based on the checks  Santander wouldve made,  I 
consider this less likely rather than more likely.
So all things  considered, I think the most likely  explanation is the accounts were properly 
closed and that, with the passage of time, theyve simply  been  overlooked.  It follows from 
this, that I find that Santander is not under any obligation to pay Mr P the money  represented 
by the last balance entry in the passbook or its later records.
Mr P has said Santander has been  unhelpful. But Im satisfied  Santander has explained 
what it can with the limited information it has. It also provided Mr P the opportunity  to revisit 
this issue if additional  evidence was provided,  but nothing has been  submitted.
I still consider my findings as set out in my provisional decision hold true. Before  I go on to 
address the further information Mr P has provided  in response to my provisional decision,  I 
Ref: DRN07150313would like to note that the purpose of this final decision isnt to address every single point 
hes raised. My findings above as set out in my provisional decision  and the further points I 
address below, will focus on what I consider to be the central issues. My role is to consider 
the information provided and reach  what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based  on 
the evidence that is available to me. And as a fresh pair of eyes looking at this compliant, its 
for me to decide, based on the information provided, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Mr P has provided a court document setting out his financial situation in February  2002.  
This, amongst other things, itemises  the Tessa account with a value of £9,500.  But I can see 
the last entry  in his passbook provided to this service was on 12 April 1996. And I dont  think  
the court document is evidence the Tessa account  was still open in early 2002. Mr P may 
not have known at this time that the funds had been transferred to another  account by 
Santander in April 2001 as the passbook he held was simply reflecting a snapshot of the 
account at that point  in time.
So whilst I appreciate  the further evidence  Mr P has provided of the account balance as he 
gave to the court in early  2002, this isnt evidence of the existence of the balance  seventeen  
years later. As Ive said the passbook and by extension, the statement he provided  to the 
court, simply show the money in the account at a certain point of time. But as I noted in my 
provisional decision, I think its more likely than not, that the subsequent account was 
properly closed and that this was likely  to have happened after the funds were withdrawn. I 
still consider this to be the case even in light of the further evidence  provided by Mr P.
I know Mr P said that I hadnt addressed the reasons why Santander  opened a new account 
without informing him. As I noted  in my provisional decision, typically,  the terms of Tessa  
accounts wouldve  meant that at maturity the money wouldve been transferred to a different 
savings account.  So I think, on balance, the new account was opened either automatically at 
maturity or on the instruction of Mr P. And I think its likely this wouldve been set out in the 
terms of the TESSA. So I dont think Santander  did anything wrong by moving the money  
into another account. Mr P hasnt provided any further information  which  changes  my mind  
about this.
I know Mr P considers that Santander hasnt conducted a thorough investigation.  As I 
explained, it is not required to keep records for more than six years.  And this is the reason 
there isnt much information  Santander  can give to Mr P.
 
So whilst I know this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mr P, for the reasons set out above, 
Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715031