K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited handled  a claim from 
another driver  on his motor policy.
background
Mr Bs policy  started on 1 September 2017.  On 20 March 2018, Mr B was involved with a 
low speed accident  when he unknowingly reversed into the car behind.  He reported the 
accident to Tesco.  
Mr B didnt think there was any damage to the other  drivers car. But the other driver did and 
Tesco accepted  liability on Mr Bs behalf  and paid for the repairs  to the other  drivers car, 
and provided a hire car for the duration of the repair.
Mr B believed the other drivers claim was inflated  and he was unhappy liability had been  
held against him. So he complained. Tesco didnt think it had done anything  wrong.
Mr B then brought  his complaint to us. The adjudicator  also didnt think  Tesco had done 
anything wrong. Mr B disagreed and his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and that of this service is merely to decide  if Tesco came to a reasonable decision in 
handling the other drivers claim against  Mr Bs policy bearing in mind the terms and 
conditions of the policy. We dont decide who was at fault as thats  best decided in the 
courts.
Tescos policy  like almost  every other  motor  policy  permits it to take over the defence  or 
settlement of any claim as it thinks fit. The adjudicator detailed this fully in the view so I wont  
repeat this here. I dont find this clause unusual  as its contained  in virtually every motor  
policy.
When Mr B reported the accident to Tesco, he confirmed he had made contact with the car 
behind. Therefore, on this basis there was no point in Tesco  arguing  about whose fault it 
was. So I consider it was reasonable  for Tesco to hold Mr B at fault. Consequently, it was 
then also reasonable for Tesco to pay the other  drivers claim, which  was for only minor  
damage. In these  circumstances,  Tesco is not permitted by law to refuse  to deal with 
another drivers claim.
It used its own approved repairer  to do this repair and I consider thats also reasonable, as 
most insurers have their own list of approved repairers in order  to keep the costs down. 
No insurer would permit  its own policyholder  to negotiate with another driver both, as 
regards whose fault the accident was, or indeed in repairing the other  drivers  car. That 
would be unreasonably outside the terms and conditions of any policy  and is outside the 
terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy with Tesco. When Mr B took out his policy with Tesco 
Ref: DRN05720582that meant  he agreed to the terms of the policy, including the term that Tesco  would take 
over and deal with any other drivers  claim against Mr B.
All incidents regardless of the costs involved or the damage caused can affect both the 
premium amount and any NCD of the person who caused the incident as Mr B did here. The 
actual cost of the repair  has no bearing on this either, its simply the fact that Mr B caused  
this incident, which is relevant.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0572058