K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1996.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs G owed on her store  card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs G couldnt  work  because 
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning  below: 
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs G that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  The policy was taken out in store.  I dont know  what  
happened during the sale so Ive looked  at the paperwork available to help me decide whats  
likely to have happened. 
Ive been given a copy of the application  form that Mrs G completed when she took out the 
card and this includes  a section for PPI. The section opting for the PPI has been ticked. 
Mrs G has signed the form so I think its likely to reflect what  she wanted. So on balance  I 
think its likely that FICL  would have asked Mrs G for her agreement  to add the policy  to her 
account and she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to. Although its understandable 
that she no longer  remembers  this. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs G and I think  thats likely to be right.  So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave 
Mrs G clear enough information about  the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs G 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Ref: DRN06396592Mrs G says she wouldve been entitled to some sick pay, then statutory sick pay after that. 
She also says she couldve relied on family to help make her repayments.  But the PPI would 
have paid out until she was able to return to work, or until the outstanding balance was 
cleared  whichever  came  first. And the policy would cover  the same  term if she was to lose 
her job. And having the PPI meant she wouldnt have to rely on her family,  whose ability  to 
help would depend on their own circumstances at any given time. So I think she wouldve 
found the policy useful. Overall,  when taking into account everything  Ive seen and been told, 
I dont think Mrs G has lost out as a result  of anything FICL  may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0639659