K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2003. Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs M paid for the policy with a regular monthly premium which didnt  attract interest. 
It covered the mortgage payments in case Mrs M was off work sick or lost her job. 
background
I sent my provisional decision on 17 April 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
that the PPI had not been mis-sold here, but that Yorkshire had to pay back the 
commission and profit share it got that was more than half of the premium.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
17 May 2019. But both Mr and Mrs M and Yorkshire had nothing more  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side had any new evidence or arguments to add. So while  I fully understand Mr and 
Mrs Ms disappointment, having reconsidered the case Ive come  to the same conclusion  as 
in my provisional decision.
what Yorkshire needs to do
Yorkshire needs to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Yorkshire also has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M 
any extra  interest  they paid because of that.
So Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should 
also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest  on each payment, to compensate them for the 
time they were without  their funds.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN03548402my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont think this PPI policy  
was mis-sold here, so Yorkshire  Building  Society  does not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03548403COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 
2003. Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold them  the PPI. Mr and Mrs M paid for the 
policy with a regular monthly premium which  didnt  attract  interest.  It covered the mortgage payments 
in case  Mrs M was off work  sick or lost her job. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
I can see that Yorkshire produced a PPI illustration for Mr and Mrs M, setting  out what  it would 
cover and what it would cost if they chose it. I think its likely they were shown  or sent this before 
they decided to take PPI. Mr and Mrs M submitted  an application  form for PPI, separately to the 
application for the mortgage itself. They chose what type of cover they wanted,  and they both 
signed the PPI application. Then the mortgage offer confirmed their choice. Both the mortgage 
offer and PPI illustration  set out the cost of the policy separately to that of the mortgage,  rather  
than as something that was necessarily included for instance. And I havent seen any evidence to 
show that Yorkshire put Mr or Mrs M under any unfair pressure  to buy PPI. Overall, I think that 
Yorkshire made it clear  Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out PPI, and that they chose to take it at 
the time.
Its not clear whether  Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M or not. The requirements  
were stricter on Yorkshire  if it did recommend it  so to be fair to Mr and Mrs M Ive assumed it did. 
That means Yorkshire had to check that the policy was right for them  and based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For example, Mrs M had only limited 
benefits through work, whereas the PPI covered her for longer and wouldve  paid out on top of 
those benefits.
Mrs M said she had substantial savings, though its not clear whether these  were readily available 
or whether  they were  intended for other things. In any case, according to the mortgage application 
Mrs M was the sole earner,  so if she was out of work then the savings wouldve been  needed to 
cover all the familys living costs  not just the mortgage. So the savings wouldve only lasted for 
so long. Further, the mortgage  was a significant,  long-term commitment, and there was no 
guarantee the savings would still be there  in the years to come. And the PPI meant Mr and Mrs M 
could protect  their savings and keep them for other things. Its worth bearing in mind  that if Mr and 
Mrs M fell behind on their mortgage  payments, they risked losing their home. So it looks like the 
PPI couldve been useful for them  in protecting their home  and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN03548404As our adjudicator  pointed out, Mrs M may have had a medical condition at the time of the sale,  
which might  not have  been  covered by the PPI. But from what Mr and Mrs M have told us, the 
condition didnt affect her day-to-day life, didnt  need any ongoing treatment by the time of the sale,  
and had never  caused her to take any time off work. Indeed, when Mr and Mrs M first brought  this 
complaint to our service,  they said they didnt consider Mrs M to have any health problems at the 
time they took out the insurance. The PPI was there to cover extended time off work,  but it doesnt 
sound like Mrs Ms condition was likely to ever cause that. And it seems the policy only excluded  
such conditions if they recurred within the first 12 months of the cover.  Further, Mrs M couldve still 
claimed on the policy if she lost her job, or for time off caused by other conditions   as Yorkshire  
says she did successfully in 2006. And Mrs M doesnt seem to have been  affected by any of the 
policys other key exclusions or limitations. So overall,  it looks like the policy  was still probably  right 
for her. 
The PPI illustration clearly set out the policys  cost, as well as what it would  pay out in a claim.  And 
it stated  clearly and prominently that the policy  would  pay out for up to 12 months in each claim. 
The policys benefit was also on the PPI application, and its cost and benefit  was reiterated in the 
mortgage offer. So I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs M what the PPI cost and what it 
could pay out.
Its possible  that Yorkshire  didnt adequately point out all the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But as I explained above, it doesnt look like Mrs M was significantly affected by any of those 
things.
Lastly, I can see the PPI was later increased in 2007 and 2008.  It doesnt  look like these  were 
effectively sales of new policies; it looks like they were  just adjustments to the existing PPI to take 
account of Mr and Mrs Ms increased mortgage payments. So I dont think  there was a 
requirement for Yorkshire to check  their suitability  for the PPI at these points. And in any case, 
I havent seen anything that would  make me think the PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M in 
2007 or 2008.
This means  I dont think Yorkshire has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But I think Yorkshire has to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, because: 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Yorkshire  didnt tell them, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically  offered  to pay back  the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what I think the business should do
I think  that Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back  to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire  should also pay Mr and Mrs M 
8%* simple  interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN03548405my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think the PPI policy was mis-sold  which would mean 
Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But I do think  Yorkshire Building Society has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Please could  Yorkshire and Mr and Mrs M send me any more information or comments to look at by 
17 May 2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354840