K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H bought the policy when he took out a loan in 1995. The loan included an amount to pay 
for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
I think Lloyds made  Mr H aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it out. Although Mr H says Lloyds  implied taking PPI would increase his 
chances of getting  the loan, I havent seen  enough evidence to persuade me that 
happened in his case.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H  and it seems to have  been  right for him based  
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. I know Mr H feels  he couldnt  have 
claimed on the policy because he was self-employed,  but I dont think his employment 
status wouldve  meant he wasnt covered. And as he didnt have any other comparable  
cover or savings, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Lloyds to recommend this type of 
cover.
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did  particularly in 
respect of the interest Mr H wouldve paid on the premium. But the interest payable on 
the PPI was likely to be only a little over £30 (across  24 months). So if Lloyds had 
explained this, I think Mr H would  still have bought  it.
Mr H wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Lloyds thought  about this when it recommended the policy, or 
if it explained the situation clearly  to Mr H. But I havent seen anything to suggest he 
thought hed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt  right for 
him  or that better information about  this wouldve stopped him buying it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr H 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments,  including the points  made in response to the 
adjudication, but these  points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
Ref: DRN05174782For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019. 
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0517478