K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc placed  her accounts into archive without her 
knowledge, didnt  respond to her letters, and that she couldnt  access the money in her 
accounts. 
background
Ms A holds two bank  accounts with Barclays  an everyday banking  account and a savings 
account. She told us that she hasnt been able to access the money  in these accounts for a 
number of years. She said she cancelled her debit  card after she experienced fraud  on her 
account. She also said shed written  to Barclays several times to ask it to transfer funds for 
her. And that shed had to do this as she doesnt have access to telephone or internet 
banking. Barclays said it has no record of receiving  letters or requests to transfer funds. 
While the complaint was with us, Barclays recommended that Ms A request a debit card to 
allow her access to her money. But as it didnt appear that Ms A had done  this, and as 
Barclays hadnt been able to provide her with a way to access  her funds when needed, 
Barclays made the decision to send her a cheque for the total balance of her accounts. The 
cheque was for £2,278.76. It also said it would close down  her accounts from 18 September 
2018 if it didnt  hear from her to request otherwise. Our investigator considered this to be a 
reasonable resolution to the complaint.
But Ms A said that the cheque had arrived torn so it was cancelled and the money  returned  
to her accounts. Ms A also asked for her accounts to remain open. 
Barclays explained that it hadnt  received any requests for the transfer of funds until 
11 July 2018 and that, once it did receive her letter,  it was concerned she was making  the 
request under duress.  But after further  conversations with Ms A, it made  the transfer of £900 
to her friend as shed  requested.  It also confirmed that it wouldnt be closing her accounts on 
18 September 2018 as intended.
Ms A later raised concerns that some  money was missing  from her accounts. She said there 
should be £2,703.76 in her accounts but there  was only £2,203.76. Barclays  provided copies 
of statements from November 2010  until August 2018 to help Ms A to identify what money 
was missing and when it had gone  missing. 
Other points that Ms A has raised  relate to her accounts being archived; Barclays  failing to 
send out letters in large print; the certified  copy of her passport  not being  returned; a call 
between Barclays and Ms A which caused  offence; and dissatisfaction  around a subject 
access request Ms A made.  
Barclays said that it hadnt archived Ms As accounts but that it had suspended her 
statements after becoming aware  that her purse  and documents had been stolen. But it did 
this as a precautionary measure so began sending statements again in July 2016. 
Barclays apologised for the distress  and inconvenience caused by the delay in returning the 
certified copy of the passport, for not sending  everything in large print and for the way the 
call was handled. It credited her account with £200  to say sorry. It also credited a further £75 
for the call costs shed  incurred. 
Ref: DRN05932852Our investigator considered everything that happened and was satisfied  with the steps  
Barclays had taken  to put things right for Ms A. He thought that the total offer of £275 was 
fair in the circumstances of the complaint. And he also thought it was fair of Barclays to ask 
Ms A to highlight why she felt there was money missing from her accounts  before it took any 
further action  here. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it will come as a disappointment  to Ms A, I dont uphold her complaint  Ill 
explain why. 
transferring funds
Theres no evidence to show  why Barclays didnt receive Ms As letters  to request a transfer 
of funds until her letter  of July 2018.  Im not persuaded that it received earlier letters so I 
dont think it would be fair to say its done something wrong here. On receipt of the July 2018 
letter, given its concerns that she was making the request under duress,  I dont think  it was 
wrong of Barclays to pause on the transfer of funds  it has a duty to protect  its customers. 
Barclays wrote to Ms A on 12 July 2018 to let her know  that, if she still wanted to make  the 
transfer, she should write to it enclosing its letter (which should  be signed) and providing 
evidence of identification. It said it would contact her if it had any further  questions. But there 
appeared to be ongoing  issues with this transfer.  So I dont think  it was unreasonable that 
Barclays offered to send  Ms A a cheque for all of the money and offered to close  her 
accounts down.  
As there was a problem with the cheque and Ms A didnt want  her accounts closed, Barclays 
kept the accounts open and returned the money  to her accounts.  The £900 transfer was 
ultimately made on 6 September 2018 to a friend  of Ms A. I dont think  Barclays  acted 
unreasonably here and I think its tried to accommodate Ms As requests while also taking 
appropriate precautionary measures.
missing funds
I think Barclays has acted reasonably in how its dealt with Ms As allegations that some 
funds were missing. Its provided her with statements spanning  a number of years for her to 
pinpoint when she thinks the funds went missing. It doesnt appear that Ms A has shown 
Barclays when  or even  if  the funds in fact went missing, so I dont think  it can be 
expected to do anything further  in the absence  of clear evidence on this point. 
archiving accounts
Barclays has explained that, contrary to her allegations, it didnt  archive Ms As accounts. I 
havent been shown anything that would suggest  it did. So Ive got no reason to doubt 
Barclays when it says it merely suspended statements until July 2016 after becoming aware 
her purse and documents had been  stolen. And because  of this, I dont think its done 
anything wrong  here.
Ref: DRN05932853other complaint points   
Barclays has acknowledged  and apologised for not sending  out letters in large print;  not 
returning the certified copy of Ms As passport; a call which Ms A found to be offensive; the 
costs Ms A incurred by calling; and dissatisfaction surrounding a subject access  request. My 
understanding is that the matter of the subject access request is being dealt with separately  
so I wont address that in this decision.  But Barclays  credited Ms As account with £200  as 
compensation for what it thinks went wrong  with the remaining issues, plus £75 for the cost 
of calls. 
I can appreciate these matters wouldve caused  frustration  to Ms A but I dont  think  shes  lost 
out financially  because  of what went wrong,  given  that Barclays  has refunded her call costs. 
I think the compensation thats already been  credited  is sufficient to reflect  the trouble and 
upset caused.  Barclays seems to be making  sure it issues letters in the correct font now;  has 
returned the copy of the passport; apologised for the offense caused by its call; and has 
factored the call costs  into its offer. I am satisfied that is fair and reasonable compensation in 
all the circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint against  Barclays  Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0593285