K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax will not compensate  him for the 
impact of arrears charges applied to his mortgage.
background
Mr P had a mortgage with Halifax which  was closed in 2011.  In 2018 Halifax  wrote to him 
and said that it had reviewed the arrears charges applied to his account after 1 January 
2009. It had decided to refund these plus simple  interest at eight per cent per annum. It said 
it was going to pay him £579.46. Mr P, who is represented in this complaint by his solicitor, 
does not agree. He says he had a mini stroke around that time and this was caused  by the 
charges. He is unhappy that Halifax said it would consider the impact of the charges but then 
has refused to do so.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-Halifax said it had not made an error in applying these charges at the time. But it had 
now reviewed its collections policy and decided to refund them.
-Mr P said he had visited his legal representative  about these  fees. It was not possible 
to determine the number of visits between 2009  and 2011. And it was not clear  that it 
was necessary to visit a solicitor each time. He noted that the solicitors office was 
close to a branch  where mortgage  payments could  be made  and to Mr Ps home.
-He was not in a position to find on the evidence that the mini stroke was caused  by 
the arrears charges  and not other factors. And there  had not been a mistake with the 
charges.
-Mr P had not demonstrated that further  compensation was fairly due.
Mr P did not agree.  His representative said that an investigation had been  made  without the 
full circumstances  being taken into account. Mr P could have provided medical evidence 
about the impact  on his health if wed wanted  it. In addition Mr Ps first language was not 
English so he needed help in understanding the letters. The dispute  with Halifax  went  on 
over a number of years. The representative said Halifax had been dishonest with its letter  
about the refund as it had then said it would consider the distress  caused. Its further letter  
about this complaint said it wouldnt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution and its up to either party  to provide  evidence to 
support an assessment of the complaint. The impact  on Mr Ps health from the arrears 
charges has always  been  an issue in this complaint. We wouldnt specifically ask for a 
medical report to be arranged: thats  something  for Mr P to decide on. But since the opinion 
from the adjudicator  and the comments from the representative no further such  evidence has 
been provided.
The letter from Halifax  dated 26 January 2018  about the refund states:
You could be entitled to an additional payment. If you think  you have incurred any additional 
costs, or suffered any distress or inconvenience as a result of having  these fees charged, 
you could be entitled to a further  payment. For example, this may include a charge made by 
Ref: DRN04783102your current  account provider for non-payment of a direct debit, or where you had to call us 
multiple times to discuss these fees being  applied to your account.
Halifax explained why it would not be paying any further compensation in its final response 
to the complaint. It does not dispute that Mr P had health issues. And it accepts that his 
payment difficulties would be stressful. But it says that it was not responsible  for these as   
Mr P was not making the contractual mortgage payments and there were arrears. The 
consequence of those arrears was the arrears charges.  Those charges were  not applied  in 
error but it has now decided to refund  them.
I think thats a fair position. The arrears charges were integrally linked to the arrears  
themselves. Even if I was to accept that the payment difficulties Mr P was experiencing 
caused his health difficulties I dont  see that this would be something that Halifax  could 
responsible for. I dont  see any basis to think that the arrears charges in themselves could 
be other than a consequence of this. Whether or not these were applied  did not affect the 
legitimacy of Halifaxs collections activity and any legal action and these are not in issue  
here.
Mr P has not shown he had a financial  loss due to these charges. He has not been able to 
substantiate the time he spent discussing this with his representative. And Id need to think  
that time was wholly spent on the fees  not on his related wider payment difficulties.
I dont doubt that Mr P and his representative  expected that Halifax would pay more 
compensation following the letter. I dont  see its since said it never  would do so and I think  
its related its decision  about  further compensation to his specific points. I consider its acted 
fairly and so I wont be asking it to do anything further. I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed 
by my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0478310