K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  that was 
taken out in November 1996, with Mrs R increasing  the level of cover in May 1999 to go with 
further borrowing. Mrs R says The Co-operative Bank  Plc (The Co-op), then trading as 
Britannia Building Society, mis-sold  her the cover.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 I think The Co-op made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen that Mrs R ticked  a box on the 
mortgage application form to show she wanted  to take out PPI. 
 The Co-op didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs R  Mrs R told us she took out the 
policy by way of a postal application  - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right 
or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs R enough  clear  and timely information 
so she could  decide for herself if it was right for her.
 Its possible the information The Co-op  gave  Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs R. Although 
Ref: DRN03332782Mrs R says she had a medical condition quite some  time before the policy was taken 
out, I dont  think better information about  the policys medical  condition  exclusions 
wouldve caused her to change her mind about  taking out the policy. I say this 
because the condition occurred around  17 years before she took out the cover  and 
was treated at the time  and it doesnt seem that it led to her taking any time off 
work. So I dont think  Mrs R wouldve  acted  any differently had she known more 
about the exclusion when she took out the policy. 
 However, I see that the Co-op  has agreed to refund her the cost of her some of her 
premiums for accident and sickness, after she said shed been awaiting hospital 
treatment at the time she increased her cover in 1999. That seems fair. 
 It also looks like the policy was affordable  so it seems like it would have  been  
useful for her if something  went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Mrs R would 
have declined the cover had The Co-op  done anything more.
 While  the policy contained exclusions  on claims relating to mental health conditions,  
in light of Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its exclusions, the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. So I think she would have 
still thought she had some  good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs R would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting,  and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant The Co-op should  have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  The Co-op doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Ref: DRN03332783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0333278