K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the credit card in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
HSBC no longer has a copy  of the paperwork relating to the sale,  which is not surprising 
given how long ago it took place. However  it does make the complaint  more difficult to 
decide. In reaching  my decision  I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened, on a balance of probability.
Mrs M recalls applying  for the credit card by phone.  She says she doesnt  recall any 
conversation about PPI - therefore  she feels it was added without her knowledge or consent.
From what  we know of HSBCs phone sales in 2004, the phone call would  have been  
followed up by HSBC  sending out an agreement to the applicant.  These agreements 
included a separate section for PPI where  the applicant  needed  to sign separately to request 
that the policy be set up.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs M has said. But Ive also thought  about how long 
ago the sale was and how this may have affected  Mrs Ms recollection of events  
particularly as taking  out a credit  card isnt usually  a particularly memorable event. Based on 
the available  evidence, on balance I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M would have 
known that she had a choice about  taking out the PPI. It seems  to me that she probably  
decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even  if she no longer remembers doing 
so.
HSBC didnt advise  Mrs M to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with sufficient information for her to make  an informed decision 
about buying the policy.
Mrs M has told us that she would have received no more than three  months sick pay from 
her employer. Shes also told us she had no other  means, such  as savings,  to fall back  on. 
Shes told us that her parents  would have helped, but other  people  cant  always be relied 
upon as their circumstances can change. Mrs M had life insurance, but that did not provide 
cover for her credit  card repayments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment and 
Ref: DRN09721892therefore did not replicate the cover  offered by the PPI. Overall  I consider  that Mrs M had a 
need for the PPI and could have  benefitted from it if shed needed to make a claim.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt provide as much information as it should  have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover.  But Mrs M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that she had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind. So shes  no worse 
off as a result of anything  HSBC may have done wrong, so theres nothing HSBC needs  to 
do to put things right.
Mrs M says that HSBC has upheld other complaints she has made  to them,  so why would 
the sales process have  been any different for this one. Mrs Ms other  complaints appear  to 
relate to loans, whereas this was a credit card, so that may explain why the sales process 
was different. Regardless of that, I have reached my decision based on the evidence  
available in this particular case, and overall  I am unable to conclude  that the PPI was mis-
sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0972189