K822xcomplaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how Covea Insurance Plc dealt with a claim under her pet insurance 
policy. 
background 
Mrs Ss dog, who Ill call H, sadly had to be put to sleep  after suddenly  going lame. Mrs S 
made a claim to Covea  for the cost of the vet treatment he had received. It was explained in 
the claim form that H was euthanised at home due to his condition and the fact Mrs S was 
unable to get him to the vet. When dealing with the claim Covea wrote to both Mrs S and the 
vet for them  to justify  why a home  visit was necessary. It also wrote  to Mrs S incorrectly  
saying she was the one that had received the treatment and passed away instead  of H.  
Mrs S says this caused her considerable stress  and upset at an already difficult  time. 
Covea looked  into the complaint and agreed  it made  mistakes. It confirmed its emails to 
Mrs S and the vet asking  about the home  visit were  unnecessary. It also says its system 
incorrectly had Mrs S recorded as Hs name. It apologised  for the distress  Mrs S had been  
caused and said it would  provide feedback  to the member of staff concerned. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and spoke with Covea about what had happened. 
He suggested  it make a compensation payment of £75 to Mrs S to recognise the upset she 
was caused. Covea agreed to this. 
Mrs S didnt think the compensation payment was enough to reflect  the stress and upset 
shed been caused at a very difficult time. She felt it was an insult  and believes the 
compensation should at least equal  the excess she had to pay.
The case  has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
We arent here to punish businesses and where something has gone wrong, as it has here,  I 
would expect a business to look to put that right where possible. Sometimes an apology is 
enough, but a compensation payment or other  form of gift and/or apology could also be 
given depending on the circumstances. 
It isnt in dispute that the mistakes happened, or that Mrs S was caused  upset by them.  So, 
whats left for me to decide is the level of compensation which should be paid.
When considering  whether  a fair amount of compensation has been suggested, Ive thought 
about how quickly Covea  acknowledged its errors and apologised for them.  Ive also taken 
into account how Mrs S has said they impacted her.
Having considered everything, I dont doubt this was a very upsetting time for Mrs S and 
these mistakes added  to that upset. But as Ive explained above our role is not to punish a 
business where something has gone wrong.  Overall, Im satisfied Covea has acknowledged 
Ref: DRN01406442that mistakes were made  on this occasion. I think its apology and the offer of £75 
compensation, suggested by the investigator, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against  Covea Insurance Plc and direct it to pay her £75 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0140644