K822xComplaint
Mr D complains about the information HBOS  Investment Fund Managers Limited gave him 
when he asked for clarification about  what would happen to his investments if HBOS was to 
become insolvent.
Background
 
Mr D has investments held with HBOS Investment Fund Managers and in June 2018 he 
wrote to ask what the situation would be if it became insolvent and what protection there 
would be for his money.
HBOS replied and recommended that he look at the website for the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme and suggested  he contact an independent financial adviser.
Mr D complained as he didnt feel this response had answered his question.  He phoned
HBOS about this and was told that maximum compensation  would be £50,000 per person.
But Mr D said this was incorrect as it only related to money that was with the investment 
manager at the time of an insolvency.  He said the ownership of the underlying  stocks  and 
shares in the unit trusts or Open Ended Investment Companies (OEICs) wouldnt be affected 
as they were held in the name of the trustee or depositary.
HBOS apologised  for the difficulties Mr D had experienced in trying to get this information 
about his investments and acknowledged that its response didnt answer  Mr Ds query. It 
offered to pay Mr D £75 to recognise the inconvenience hed been caused.  It said the assets  
in Mr Ds investments belonged  to him and are held by a custodian  it only manages them 
on his behalf.  So, if HBOS ceased  to trade,  its creditors would have no claim on Mr Ds 
assets. It said that the compensation  limit of £50,000 would apply  if the custodian  became 
insolvent.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with this reply  or the offer. He asked what would actually happen to his 
assets; how it was possible that a custodian  could become insolvent and what liability HBOS  
had in being responsible  for the appointment of the custodian.
HBOS gave Mr D the details of the custodian and said it was the custodians responsibility to 
prevent any loss to the unit holders in the event  it became insolvent. It wouldnt provide Mr D 
with a copy of the agreement  between  it and the custodian hed requested, as it said this 
was business  sensitive information.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and thought the compensation offered to
Mr D wasnt enough. He said that correspondence between HBOS  and Mr D had carried  on 
after the time the original compensation had been first offered. So he thought the 
compensation level should be increased  to £150.
HBOS didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
Ref: DRN09067622My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019. In summary,  I thought the 
level of compensation  HSBC had offered Mr D was fair. 
I said I could appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling  and desire to get the right information for 
reassurance of how his money was protected.  I could see that Mr D undertook research  of 
his own to try and understand what would happen if the particular businesses involved with 
his investments became insolvent. 
I said I understood that it will have been frustrating not to have received the right information 
or a full response  to the questions he raised.
But, having  taken  all of this into account,  I felt the compensation  HBOS  offered to him was 
fair and adequately reflected the trouble Mr D was put to in needing  to go back for further 
clarification and to question what he was being told.
This was because I thought it was fair to say that the questions  he raised were somewhat 
complex and were likely  to involve a greater level of detail and knowledge than an everyday  
query would require. Although I thought it may have resolved the matter earlier  if his query 
had been responded  to by a representative with the appropriate level of knowledge, HBOS 
told us that feedback has been provided  to prevent a similar situation and apologised.
I said Mr D hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the way his query was first 
answered. I accepted  that he was concerned about  the response he got and the safety of his 
investments through this time. But I couldnt see that there was an immediate risk to Mr Ds 
money. He will have  needed to spend time researching the answers  he wanted when these 
werent adequately responded to, but I thought the £75 HBOS  offered him fairly 
compensated him for that.
After HBOSs initial response to Mr Ds complaint, there was further  correspondence  
between him and HBOS.  This seemed to have been  because Mr D wished to raise further 
points and the time this took was delayed while he was on holiday. I wasnt  persuaded that 
this was a fair reason to consider an increased  level of compensation.
The responses
HBOS responded  to say that it accepted my findings  and had nothing  further  to add.
Mr D didnt accept my provisional findings.  He said hed been put to considerable trouble 
and had suffered  distress  and inconvenience.  He feels the issue is the way his request for 
information was handled which he thinks was appalling.
Mr D feels that hes been caused a moderate  level of trouble,  upset,  distress  and 
inconvenience, which should mean  a level of compensation of up to £500  according to the 
information published on our website.
Mr D feels that I havent taken into account the time hed spent  to make sure his concerns 
were understood. He feels this equated  to over 20 hours of extensive research to 
understand the complexities of his investments and should be compensated for this.
My findings
Ref: DRN09067623Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive given careful  consideration to the 
additional points  Mr D has raised  in response.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I do appreciate Mr Ds perspective and understand the 
concerns he had when he wasnt satisfied with the responses he initially got from HBOS.  
And I have  taken into account that he looked  into matters  himself to fully understand the 
level of protection  his investments and money  had in the event HBOS  became insolvent, and 
that he has then looked to raise  this complaint to resolve matters.
This of course will have taken some  time,  but I wouldnt necessarily look award him 
compensation specifically based upon  the units of time it took Mr D to do his research, or for 
the need to provide information  in relation to his complaint, which I think is reasonable to 
expect. Instead  Ive considered the overall  impact of the situation on Mr D. This has included 
what happened and the steps HBOS took afterwards.
And, having done this, my findings  remain that I think  HBOSs  apology and offer of £75 
represent a fair resolution to Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My decision  is that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited should pay Mr D £75, as it 
has already offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0906762