K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  about the way that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading  
as Volkswagen Finance, has dealt with the termination of the hire purchase agreement  
under which a car was supplied to her. 
background 
A new car was supplied  to Miss S under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen  
Finance that she signed in September 2015.  The cars air-conditioning pump was replaced  
in June 2016 and its throttle valve was replaced in April 2017. Miss S was concerned about 
a warning light in April 2018 so returned the car to the dealer. She complained to 
Volkswagen Finance about the issues with the car. The car was repaired by the dealer but 
Miss S has described the issues that she had with its customer  service (for which it 
apologised and waived  the charge for the repair). 
She complained to Volkswagen Finance about  the dealers customer  service but it said that 
those issues should be addressed by the dealer and the manufacturer. Miss S complained to 
the dealer (but says that it hasnt responded) and to the manufacturer.  It apologised  to 
Miss S and said that she should ask Volkswagen Finance about terminating  her agreement.   
She sent an e-mail  to Volkswagen Finance in May 2018 and phoned it in August 2018 about  
that. It quoted  a settlement amount of £811.30 for terminating the agreement. It was agreed 
that her payments  would  be put on hold and she wouldnt be liable for the settlement  amount 
if her outstanding complaint about the issues with the car was upheld. She was sent the 
documents required to voluntarily terminate the agreement which  she agreed and returned 
to Volkswagen Finance. She says that she presumed the documents would be kept on file 
until her complaint had been resolved and wouldnt have terminated the agreement so be 
without a car and have  to pay £811.30.
She received confirmation of the voluntary termination  of her agreement  so she contacted 
Volkswagen Finance but was told that the voluntary termination was irreversible,  the car 
would be collected  from her and that she was liable for the settlement amount of £811.30. 
She then received a response  from Volkswagen  Finance to her complaint about the issues  
with the car. It said that it was satisfied that the issues werent  present  when  the car was 
supplied to her due to the time that had elapsed.
The car was collected from her by a third party on behalf of Volkswagen Finance and it was 
inspected in September 2018. The inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 23,644 
and identified a scratched  bumper, a chipped windscreen and a scratched wheel for which 
charges totalling  £130.20  were recommended.
Volkswagen Finance charged Miss S £130.20  for the damage, £382.89 for excess  mileage  
and the settlement amount of £811.30. Miss S complained to this service  about the amount 
that shed been charged.  Volkswagen Finance agreed to refund the excess mileage charge. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld.  He said that Miss S 
had agreed that she would  pay the shortfall if her complaint wasnt successful and there was 
no agreement that the voluntary termination  paperwork would be kept on file until the 
complaint was resolved. He was satisfied  that the damage noted on the inspection  report  
exceeded fair wear  and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  
Association guidelines so he thought that Volkswagen Finance was entitled  to charge for the 
Ref: DRN08559682damage. He said that he wouldnt be asking Volkswagen Finance to reimburse Miss S for 
the damage charges and the settlement amount   but, if it hadnt already done  so, it should 
reimburse the excess mileage charge as per its offer.
Miss S has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She has responded 
to the investigators  recommendations  and has described what she says happened  when 
she spoke with Volkswagen Finance about  voluntarily  terminating the agreement and says 
that she hasnt  been refunded for the excess mileage charge.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
it seems clear to me that Miss S voluntarily terminated her agreement  in August 2018 
 she was sent an e-mail  by Volkswagen Finance which said:  Please find enclosed  
a Voluntary Termination  information pack.  It is important  that you read this, as it 
details key information that you will need to know regarding the Voluntary 
Termination process. Please be aware that voluntary termination is irreversible and 
should you choose to proceed  there  is no option to reinstate  your agreement or keep 
your vehicle.  If you decide to go ahead with terminating your agreement, you will 
need to complete the below template and return this email  to [specified e-mail 
address]. We will then instruct our agent  to inspect and collect your vehicle;
Miss S replied  to that e-mail and said: Thank you for your email and please  find 
below the completed template for early terminating my agreement.  It is really 
disappointing that I am requesting  to terminate my contract early as I have been a 
customer  for many years and I really valued them  as a company. As I received 
appalling customer service from the dealer  and having  continuous  problems with 
my vehicle  since starting this agreement  it has left me no choice but to terminate my 
contract early. As per our conversation, please  withhold  taking my monthly payments 
until this complaint has been resolved;
I dont consider that there was anything  in those documents that would reasonably  
have caused Miss S to presume that the termination documents  would  be kept on file 
until her complaint had been resolved  the e-mails  had clearly  said that voluntary 
termination was irreversible and that if she went ahead (which  she did and she said I 
am requesting  to terminate my contract  early) it would arrange  for the car to be 
collected from her; 
I sympathise with Miss S for the issues that shes had with the car (and for the 
service issues  that shes experienced) but I consider  that she agreed to voluntarily  
terminate her agreement  and she knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that 
shed be liable for the settlement amount of £811.30 if her complaint about the car 
wasnt upheld;
that complaint  wasnt upheld  and I consider that Volkswagen Finance was entitled to 
charge Miss S the settlement amount; 
Miss S had signed the agreement which said that she must: keep  the Vehicle in 
good repair and condition, commensurate  with its age and mileage;  and that she 
would:  be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the Vehicle which is 
in excess of fair wear  and tear commensurate  with the age and mileage of the 
Vehicle;
Ref: DRN08559683the inspection  report identified that the car had a scratched bumper, a chipped  
windscreen and a scratched wheel when it was returned by Miss S, it included  
photos of that damage and charges totalling £130.20 were recommended for the 
damage;
Miss S says that shed bought a protection policy which  she understood would cover 
the cost of the damage  but shed have needed to make  a claim on that policy to 
have any damage that was covered  by the policy rectified  before the car was 
returned to Volkswagen Finance   she didnt do so and Volkswagen  Finance  isnt 
able to make a claim under that policy;
I consider that the damage shown  in the photos is more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  guidelines on fair wear and tear and that it was fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for Volkswagen Finance to charge Miss S for that 
damage  so I dont  consider that it would be fair or reasonable  for me to require it to 
refund the damage charges to her;
Miss S paid the excess mileage charge and damage charges to Volkswagen  Finance 
in September  2018 and then paid the settlement amount of £811.30 to it in October 
2018 - Volkswagen Finance has agreed  to refund the excess  mileage charge of 
£382.89; and
other than refunding  £382.89 to Miss S, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require Volkswagen Finance to refund  the damage 
charges or settlement  amount to Miss S, to pay her any other compensation or to 
take any other action  in response  to her complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen  
Finance, should  refund  the excess mileage charge of £382.29 to Miss S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0855968