K821x#15The complaint  
Miss W has been represented by Mr P but for ease, and because the finance agreement  is 
in her name, Ill refer to Miss W in this decision.  
Miss Ws complaint is about the quality of a car she has been  financing through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited.   
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the adjudicator for these reasons:  
the relevant  law says,  amongst other things, that the car should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Im persuaded the boot failed in the first six 
months and repairs were clearly unsuccessful  as the car had to be returned  on a 
further two occasions.  I dont think  a reasonable person would think  this suggested 
the car was of acceptable quality.
I dont think a nearly new cars boot should  fail so quickly  so I think  the car hasnt 
proven suitably durable and thats another reason  why the relevant  legislation  would 
suggest it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
but I can see that the car was repaired in January and that repair  appears  to have 
been successful.  Im persuaded that it is most  likely that repair  was an accepted 
resolution of the matter  so I dont think it would be fair to ask BMW  Financial Services  
(GB) Limited to take any further action;  such  as allowing the rejection  of the car. 
But I do think they should provide some compensation as Miss W has been  
inconvenienced by having to return the car so frequently and by not having full use of 
it whilst  its been  in her possession.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order  to resolve Miss Ws 
complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  should:
Pay Miss W £300 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes  experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0037798