K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds service in connection with 
two motor insurance policies.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
Mr B insured  two cars with Admiral.  The cars were  damaged in a malicious  attack by 
individual(s) who weren't caught. Mr B claimed  on his policies. During that process  Mr B 
made a subject access request for Admiral to release the data it held about him. 
Mr B was unhappy with Admirals service, in particular with some of the things he heard  
Admiral discuss  in phone call recordings, which Mr B said were inaccurate and painted  him 
in a poor light. 
Admiral eventually responded  to Mr B's complaint. While it didn't agree with all of Mr Bs 
concerns, it accepted it hadn't got everything right. It offered Mr B £100  compensation. One 
of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. She said Admiral should increase  its 
compensation to £150. Mr B didn't think that went far enough, so his complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to partly uphold  
it. My award to put things right will be the same  as our investigator recommended.
As well as this complaint,  Im also looking into two other complaints Mr B has about Admiral 
concerning their handling of his claims for his two cars. And I intend to provide my findings to 
those in separate decisions. As such there  is some  overlap between this complaint and the 
other two complaints. And while I've considered everything on all three files I've tried to avoid 
any duplication of findings. Further I don't intend to comment on each individual point  raised 
but will focus on what I see as being  the key issues.
Mr B wasn't happy with some of the information Admiral discussed with the police.  Its clear  
that, initially at least, Admiral wasnt convinced that the incident leading  to the claim 
happened as Mr B said it had. And, given that his claims  were entirely genuine,  I can 
understand why Mr B wouldn't  be happy  with that. But Mr Bs claims were of fairly high 
value. And its not unusual for an insurer like Admiral to want  to fully investigate a claim 
before settling it. Further, where the police are involved, I don't  think  theres anything wrong 
with an insurer raising any concerns it might have  around the circumstances of a claim - 
with the police. So, while I can understand why Mr B wasn't  happy  with Admirals discussion 
with the police I don't think that means Admiral did anything wrong in voicing its concerns. 
And ultimately Admiral  agreed that Mr B had two valid claims that it needed to settle. 
That said,  Admiral said other things in conversation with its agents that were simply untrue. 
For example in one call there was a discussion about Mr B owning nine body shops and 
being in debt. But neither  of those things are accurate. Mr B does own a number of 
businesses and one of those is a body  shop but he doesn't own nine body shops.  And 
theres simply nothing on the files Ive seen to say that Mr B had the debt Admiral referred to. 
Ref: DRN03432012And even  if he had been  and I need to stress  Ive seen  no evidence he was - it wouldn't 
have been appropriate for Admiral to discuss that with its agents.  So I can understand why 
Mr B felt that this would have painted him in a poor light. But I note that Admiral has since 
accepted these points when it replied  to his concerns.
Mr B also raised concerns about  other actions, for example in an internal phone  call Admiral 
acknowledged that the claim had been going on for quite a long time and the two staff 
members having the conversation laughed.  Mr B seems to think  that this is evidence of a 
poor attitude and Admirals staff being unprofessional. From an independent perspective, it 
appears to me that the laugh wasn't because they were taking any enjoyment at how the 
delay was affecting Mr B, but was a nervous recognition  that Admiral  had already  taken  
longer than it would  like to deal with the matter.  
Further, Mr B has referred to another call where the call handler comments that two named 
members of Admirals staff were  at their desks. But Mr B hadn't  been able to contact them. 
Mr B thinks  this is evidence that Admirals  staff were deliberately  ignoring  him. But I don't  
agree thats  the case. There could  be numerous  reasons why Admirals staff are at their 
desks but are unable to take calls. For example, amongst other  things, they could be on 
another call, about to go into a meeting, or otherwise finishing off work that needs  to be 
completed urgently.  And I don't think its unreasonable if Admirals staff aren't always 
available to take calls instantly. So I don't find this evidence of any discourtesy towards Mr B.
That said Admiral noted other points where it could have handled matters better. For 
example Admirals accepted it didn't initially respond appropriately when a recovery  agents 
truck damaged Mr Bs plant pots. Similarly, it didn't  pass on Mr Bs concerns to its agents 
about how his cars would be stored or that there should be no attempts made to jump  start 
them. I agree with Admiral  that it should  have  ensured it passed  those comments  on but 
didn't do so.
And I think the above issues  would have caused Mr B some unnecessary distress  and 
inconvenience. To address these specific issues I think Admiral should  pay Mr B £150 
compensation. For completeness that will be on top of any compensation I may decide to 
award in relation to the other two complaints Im looking at separately. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr B £150  compensation for his distress  and inconvenience  arising 
from this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Joe Scott
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0343201