K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2010. Mrs W says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The policy covered Mrs W against  being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
findings so the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Mrs W held the mortgage  without any PPI policy from 2004.  The PPI policy  came into force  
in 2010. NatWest hasnt been able to tell us exactly how it was sold to Mrs W.
Mrs W told us it was sold to her during  a meeting, but she may be referring to the mortgage 
only as Mrs W has also told us she wasnt aware of the policy.
NatWest has been  able to show us screenshots  of its internal systems. These show  phone 
records which indicate Mrs W applied for the policy in 2009 but for some reason it wasnt set 
up. There is then a record of a telephone  call in 2010 when Mrs W questioned why the policy 
hadnt been put in place. A direct debit form was then sent out and returned, signed, by      
Mrs W.
I cant know exactly how the policy was sold to Mrs W. But bearing  in mind the mortgage had 
been in place for over five years  without PPI before the policy  was sold, I think  shed have  
been aware it wasnt something  she had to have. And it was paid for with a separate  direct 
debit from her bank account.  So if it wasnt something she wanted or asked  for Id expect her 
to have questioned it at an early  stage, but Ive not seen any evidence that she did.
 
Taking everything into account  I think NatWest made it clear  that Mrs W didnt  have to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this eight  years later.
From what  I know of how NatWest sold this type of policy at the time, I dont think it wouldve 
made a personal  recommendation  to Mrs W to buy the policy.  So it didnt  have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information she needed to 
decide for herself if it was right for her. 
I cant be sure exactly what  was information was given to Mrs W during the sale of the  PPI.  
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  
Ref: DRN09454412But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based  on 
what Ive seen of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. So it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mrs W off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said, including what  she told us about her sick pay. 
Mrs W has said her employer wouldve paid her full pay for a year. But I have to take into 
account that the mortgage was in Mrs Ws sole name so shed  be solely responsible  for 
making the repayments. And it looks like Mrs W was interested  in the cover  despite her 
employers generous sick pay scheme.  So I still think Mrs W wouldve found the policy useful  
if she became unwell or had an accident,  particularly if she was off work  for a prolonged 
period.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs W paid on her PPI  and whether NatWest 
treated her unfairly. 
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mrs Ws PPI was less than half of what she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ws commission  was less than half the cost 
of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont  think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think NatWest treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs W back  any 
of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0945441