K821x#15Complaint
Mrs O complains that Capital Professional Limited gave her unsuitable advice to switch  the 
benefits she held in a personal  pension to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) and 
invest in an unregulated scheme.
Background
In May 2009  Capital  Professional advised  Mrs O to switch her existing personal pension  to a 
SIPP, with a business Ill call A, in order to invest in the PFB Data  Centre Fund (PFB 
Fund). 
In July 2009 £73,485.20 was transferred to the SIPP and of this sum £62,800 was invested 
in the PFB Fund. Capital Professional  was paid £2,204.56 for the advice and the remainder 
was left in cash  to cover future fees.
In 2018 Mrs O complained after becoming  aware  that her investment in the PFB Fund  had 
been sold at a significant loss. She learned she had received only £16,299.66 when the 
investment was sold in June 2017.  Mrs O said the investment  had been  too high risk for her 
 she had a balanced attitude to risk  and overall  she believed the advice was unsuitable.
Mrs O referred  her complaint  to our service as Capital Professional didnt provide a full 
response within eight  weeks.
Capital Professional told our investigator  that it believed  Mrs O had made her complaint too 
late as her statements  wouldve shown  that the investment had lost some value in 2012 and 
it hadnt been revalued since  then.  Our investigator  didnt think  this was sufficient to make 
Mrs O aware of her cause for complaint, as a balanced risk investor could tolerate some  
fluctuations in value.
Capital Professional didnt  agree  and the matter was referred  to an ombudsman  who 
determined the complaint  was made  in time.
After considering the merits  of the complaint, the investigator upheld it. He said Capital 
Professional hadnt  carried out a proper  fact-find as there wasnt  any information about  
Mrs Os other pension  provisions or assets,  so it was difficult to determine her capacity for 
loss or the overall risk profile of her portfolio.  From  the information gathered from Mrs O, 
which was based  on what she could remember from the time, the investigator didnt think  
she could afford to take a significant risk with these pension funds. He also wasnt satisfied 
that placing these  funds in a higher risk investment,  akin to an unregulated collective 
investment scheme  (UCIS), wouldve achieved a balanced risk across her portfolio. So, he 
didnt think the advice to invest in the PFB Fund  was suitable  for Mrs O.
The investigator thought Mrs O wouldve most likely  moved her funds to a SIPP or a similar 
arrangement at some point in the future.  This was because she had later invested in funds  
she wouldnt  have been able to invest in through her existing pension. So, he didnt seek  to 
put Mrs O back  into the position  she wouldve been in if she hadnt been  advised to switch  
her benefits  from her existing pension.  Instead,  he recommended  Mrs O should be 
compensated by comparing  the value of the investment in the PFB Fund when it was sold,  to 
the value she wouldve  achieved if it had been invested in line with her attitude to risk and 
paid the difference. He said Capital Professional should use the FTSE UK Private  Investors 
Ref: DRN07042502Income Total Return Index to calculate  this. He also recommended Capital Professional  
should pay Mrs O £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs O accepted this resolution, but Capital Professional didnt agree. It said Mrs O had an 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) that accounted for the majority of her retirement  
provision and she agreed she could afford to take a greater risk with these funds  it was 
deemed to be surplus. Capital Professional said Mrs O had experience in investing in higher 
risk funds and based on the information  gathered by the investigator, it thought  that the sum 
invested in the PFB Fund only represented  around 10% of her assets.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion so the matter was passed to me to 
make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
As Capital  Professional gave advice to Mrs O in respect of her pension, it was required to 
comply with the regulators requirements  under  the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). And under COBS, Capital Professional had a duty to act in Mrs Os best interests, 
to know its client and give suitable advice.
In order to demonstrate that Capital Professional knew its client, a fact-find would usually 
been completed, gathering information  about Mrs Os circumstances, her financial situation 
and assets, as well as her investment experience and objectives.  This would also include an 
assessment of Mrs Os attitude  to risk and capacity for loss. It is difficult to demonstrate  that 
suitable advice  was given in the absence of this process having  taken place.
Capital Professional has provided a copy of its pension transfer  report dated 12 May 2009. 
This includes Part A: Pension Transfer Suitability Report and Part B: Investment 
Recommendations. Within the introduction section of Part A, it states the following:
With reference to our recent discussions and the information supplied  by you in the Client
Confidential Questionnaire completed and signed on 13 February 2009 and the Risk Profiler 
completed and signed  on 7 March  2009
So, it seems  to me that Capital Professional did carry out a fact-finding exercise  before 
making the recommendations. The investigator asked for a copy  of these  documents,  but 
Capital Professional couldnt locate them. However,  it found a copy of a client  questionnaire 
and risk profiler completed in March  2011  and a recommendation  letter  dated  
23 February 2012. It appears  Mrs O was seeking further retirement  planning advice at the 
time, which resulted  in her making additional contributions to her existing SIPP and investing 
through a discretionary  fund manager (DFM)  to boost  her retirement income.  
Between these  documents there is very little information gathered about Mrs Os investment 
experience or her assets  these sections are left blank.  The only relevant information is the 
detail recorded  about her OPS in the recommendation letter. However,  as this 
recommendation was provided almost three years after the advice was given to invest in the 
PFB Fund, it isnt clear how much Capital Professional knew about  Mrs Os circumstances in 
2009.
Ref: DRN07042503In light of the above, Im satisfied that some kind of fact-finding took place. But based  on the 
limited detail that appears in the Pension  Transfer Suitability Report, it seems to me that this 
wasnt particularly in depth. This is supported  further  by the fact-find  completed  in 2011, 
which contained no details of Mrs Os assets  or prior investments, apart from the investment 
she made in the PFB Fund. For this reason, there  is very little to go on from the time of sale 
to determine whether  or not Capital Professionals advice in 2009  was suitable for Mrs O.
Capital Professional says at the point  of advice in 2009, Mrs O had the benefit of an OPS 
through her former employer, which had a transfer  value of around £400,000. It says this 
represented the majority  of her investment portfolio. It appears  to acknowledge that the 
PFB Fund was a higher-risk  investment, but says that it was still suitable for Mrs O taking 
into account the remainder of her portfolio, which remained balanced,  in line with her attitude 
to risk. However, I dont  think  the information  gathered at the time supports this. The Pension 
Transfer Suitability  Report  contains  the following information:
You own a rental property valued  at approximately £130,000 which provides you with 
£4,000 income  per annum  and jointly own your main property with your husband valued at
approximately £450,000 with no outstanding mortgage. You are a sophisticated investor 
having invested in a range of assets  including various Enterprise Zone  Trusts (EZT) and 
Venture Capital  Trusts (VCTs). Therefore you have  previous experience of higher risk 
investment strategies and appreciate the risks involved.
As there is so little to go on from the report,  Mrs O was asked for more information by the 
investigator. She told us that the rental property was in negative equity at the time. She also 
estimated that she and her husband  had around  £50,000 in savings,  adding  that she had 
high expenses such as school fees and that they were  saving  for their childrens future  
university costs.
With regard to the EZT and VCT investments, no information  has been provided  by Capital 
Professional to confirm  what  was invested  in those schemes or whether  those  investments 
were still in place at the time of the advice in 2009.  Mrs O said she had invested in these 
with her husband, who had a more  adventurous attitude to risk, as part of their joint tax 
planning. This is supported by the risk profiler completed in March 2011, which shows Mr O 
had an adventurous attitude to risk, compared to Mrs Os balanced attitude to risk.
Mrs O recalls that she had two VCTs with £6,000 and £6,100 invested. She said she 
understood that she might not get a large return on the investments, but she would have the 
benefit of deferring capital  gains  tax. Mrs O stated that the risk she was prepared to take 
with these smaller investments should not be taken as demonstrating she wouldve taken  the 
same level of risk with her pension. 
Ive taken all of this into account, and based on the information Ive seen, I dont think  the 
investment in the PFB Fund was suitable  for Mrs O. Whilst Mrs O had benefits in an OPS, 
these werent accessible  to her for investment. So, I dont think its reasonable to conclude 
that this formed part of her investment portfolio, when these benefits would only become  
payable to Mrs O on retirement  in the form of a yearly income.  And whilst Mrs O has told us 
she had some savings, these werent available for investment as they were earmarked for 
her childrens tuition. I also dont think its reasonable to take the value of the rental property 
into account, when  Mrs O says it was in negative equity and the value was purely  dependent  
on a buyer  being  found. So, the pension funds  that were the subject of the advice, just over 
£73,000, represented the majority of Mrs Os readily accessible investment portfolio.
Ref: DRN07042504If the VCT investments  were still in place, Mrs O wouldve already been invested  in assets 
that considerably  exceeded her attitude  to risk - VCTs  are considered to be specialist, high-
risk investments as they invest in small companies with shares that are illiquid and can be 
hard to sell. So, I dont  think  that investing  £62,800 of the £73,485.20  switched to the SIPP  
allowed Mrs O to maintain a balanced  risk profile across her portfolio.  If anything,  I think  it 
increased the risk profile overall to that of a more adventurous investor, which Capital 
Professional confirmed she wasnt through its risk profiling exercise.
Even if I could say that it was reasonable for Capital Professional  to take the value of 
Mrs Os OPS benefits into account as part of her overall portfolio, I dont think  investing the 
remainder of her pension benefits in a high risk venture represents a well-balanced portfolio. 
For an investor with a medium or balanced  attitude  to risk, there should be investment in a 
wide range  of assets with appropriate diversification throughout. I dont think  treating  the 
value of an OPS  scheme as one low risk investment and then investing the vast majority of 
the remaining  personal pension benefits  in a high-risk unregulated scheme achieves this 
balance.
In my view, the investment in the PFB Fund  was not suitable  for Mrs O as it carried  a higher 
risk than she could tolerate. I dont accept Capital Professionals comments  that these funds 
were surplus and that for this reason  significant  losses could be tolerated  on them. I dont 
think a previous small investment in VCTs supports this conclusion and this does not fit with 
Mrs Os overall  attitude to risk. So, I dont  think Capital  Professional shouldve advised  Mrs O 
to invest any of her funds in the PFB Fund.
Had Capital Professional given Mrs O that advice, Im satisfied she wouldve followed it. So, 
it follows that Mrs O wouldnt have invested in the PFB Fund at all. But I dont think  its likely 
Mrs O wouldve remained in her existing scheme, I say this because she was seeking advice 
about where to invest these funds and she later invested funds  using a DFM.  So, I think she 
wouldve invested differently and for this reason, I think it would be fair to calculate  her loss 
based on a benchmark.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs O should be put as closely  as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs O would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs O's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Capital  Professional do?
To compensate Mrs O fairly, Capital Professional must:
Compare the performance of Mrs O's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Capital Professional should bring  the compensation up to date using the benchmark  
as set out below. 
Ref: DRN07042505If there is a loss, Capital  Professional should pay into Mrs O's pension plan to 
increase its value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
amount paid should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Capital Professional is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs O's pension  plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs O's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs O would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs O £300 for the trouble  and upset caused by the unsuitable advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Capital Professional deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mrs O how much has been taken off. Capital  Professional  
should give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
adjustment
PFB Fund surrenderedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
surrenderedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Capital Professional totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN07042506Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs O wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs O's circumstances  and risk attitude.
The additional adjustment using  the benchmark  is to reflect the fact the loss Mrs O 
experienced wouldve been  invested  in line with her attitude to risk since the end 
date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Capital  Professional Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Capital Professional Limited should  provide details of its calculation to Mrs O in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0704250