K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  that Quick Quid provided to Mr D from April 2010 
onwards. Mr Ds last loan was provided  in July 2010.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ds complaint and thought  that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loan four. Quick  Quid disagreed.  So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan four would  most  likely have 
shown that Mr D already  had an existing amount of existing short-term lending  that was dues 
to be repaid. In these  circumstances, there  was a significant risk that Mr D wouldnt have 
been able to repay loan four without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
Ref: DRN08565322Mr D had to pay interest  and charges on a loan that Quick Quid  shouldnt  have provided him 
with. So I think that he lost out because  Quick Quid provided loan four. This means that Im 
upholding Mr Ds complaint about loan four and Quick Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr D compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0856532