K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the advice he received from Prudential  Financial  Planning Limited 
(Prudential) to purchase one of its annuity products. He says it wasnt right for him and 
Prudential didnt provide him with information about  all of his options.
Mr B is represented in this matter,  but for ease of reading I will refer to Mr B only.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 11 June 2021.  Ive recapped the background below:
In June and July 2013 Mr B met with a Prudential adviser to discuss  accessing some of his 
pension benefits.  At the time he held four personal pension plans with Prudential (all legacy 
plans from a former provider). Mr B was looking to access tax-free cash from them to help 
repay his outstanding interest-only mortgage. 
As part of the advice  process, the Prudential adviser  produced a Financial Planning Report,  
also known as a suitability report (SR) which recorded the discussions theyd had about 
Mr Bs objectives and circumstances and explained  the advisers recommendations and 
reasoning. 
The SR indicates Mr B was provided  with several  documents, including among others, a 
Client Agreement, The Money Advice Service  Your  Pension, its time to choose  brochure, 
and key features  documents.
At the time of advice  Mr B was 59 years old, divorced with no financial dependents.  He was 
employed, earning around £71,000  per annum. He was a novice investor having experience  
with only cash-based investments and the pensions. His selected retirement age was 65. Mr B 
was also a member of his employers  defined contribution occupational pension  scheme 
(OPS) and he had deferred benefits from his former  employers defined  benefit OPS. 
Mr Bs objectives were listed in the SR as:
1.gain access to some of the available tax-free  cash from his pension  funds
2.make  further contributions to pension arrangements to boost income available in 5 
years time. 
Mr B was approaching retirement and he wanted  to reduce his mortgage  as much as 
possible before  that time by using his tax-free  cash.
To meet this objective,  Prudential  recommended Mr B access  his tax-free cash  and use the 
rest of the funds  to purchase  an Income Choice Annuity (ICA). The ICA was designed to 
provide a regular  income for the rest of Mr Bs life. It was linked to the performance of the 
Prudential With-Profits Fund,  so the income had the potential to grow.  The income could 
also fall, but it was guaranteed to not be less than a certain amount, called the secure level. 
Prudential also recommended Mr B set up a personal pension plan and make regular 
monthly contributions. The plan was set with a retirement age of 65 and invested in the With-
Profits Fund.
Ref: DRN09583622In August  2018,  Mr B complained to Prudential about the advice to set up an annuity and the 
information provided to him at the time about  his other options. Prudential didnt uphold  the 
complaint and it was brought to this service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint. She concluded that Prudential had provided 
sufficient information  about the open  market option but didnt consider the advice to 
purchase the ICA was suitable.
Prudential didnt agree  so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont intend  to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
In his complaint  to this service, Mr B says he would  like to be in the position  to make the 
choice if an annuity  was right, based on the having  correct knowledge.  And his 
representative told us that Prudential didnt  give Mr B the option to investigate  and seek 
independent financial  advice to the enjoy the benefits of the open market option. So Mr B is 
complaining not only about the advice but also about the information provided  to him at the 
time. I will address each in turn below. 
was sufficient information provided?
As the investigator  noted, Prudential offered a restricted advice service and as such  the 
wasnt able to advise  on options from the whole of the market.  This would have been 
explained to Mr B during the initial meeting, and I can see the Client Agreement  makes it 
clear the limitations  of the advice and how this differs from an independent  financial adviser.
It is documented in the SR that Mr B didnt  want advice from an external adviser  and was 
happy with the products Prudential offered. So I consider Prudential did make  Mr B aware  of 
the option to seek independent financial advice and to exercise  the open market  option and 
he chose not to.
In addition, having reviewed everything that was provided to Mr B at the time of advice, 
including the Money Advice Service  Your Pension,  its time to choose brochure,  and SR 
Im satisfied Mr B was made aware  of the open  market option and his ability  to go to another 
provider who may have different products to offer. So I cant say that Prudential didnt 
provide him with sufficient information to make an informed decision.
was the advice suitable?
It is not disputed  that at the time of the original advice to Mr B, his primary  objective  was to 
release tax-free  cash from his four personal  pension plans. The investigator  concluded,  and I 
agree, that Mr B was sufficiently motivated to access his tax-free cash  to help repay  his 
outstanding mortgage. So the issue here is whether the advice provided to him by the 
Prudential adviser  was suitable for his objectives  and circumstances at the time.  
In that regard, its important to note that I consider that theres  sometimes  more than one 
product or approach  that might meet the consumers circumstances and objectives. Another 
adviser might take a different  approach.  But that doesnt mean what  was recommended  was 
unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN09583623And whats important is what happened at the time  sometimes views may later change as 
to what would have  been the best course to take.
Its also important to explain that at the time of advice in 2013,  Mr B had limited  options on 
what he was able to do with his pension funds  once he had taken  any benefits (here the tax-
free lump  sum). All of the options that are now available following  changes  in legislation  in 
2015, werent available then. In 2013 Mr B had to either purchase an annuity  or enter a 
drawdown arrangement. 
Having looked  at the paperwork  I think Prudential  did a thorough job in explaining  its 
recommendations to Mr B  so I dont think it did anything wrong. Mr B was provided with 
key features documents and other paperwork that detailed  all of his options. The advisers 
report was detailed and its clear that the adviser  discussed the options with Mr B and 
tailored his recommendations towards Mr Bs needs. 
The SR explained that income drawdown, a product Prudential offered, was discounted 
because Mr B didnt wish to consider a plan that did not offer a secure  level of income.  I 
dont think this was unreasonable  given Mr Bs attitude to risk and investment experience,  
along with the short investment term and the size of the fund. And even though  Mr B said he 
didnt need an income, it is clear  from the SR that this was discussed, and it seems  Mr B 
welcomed the additional  income given he had no savings and had to rely on credit cards to 
pay for emergencies.  
I also find it telling that the SR indicates that Mr B could have opted for a reduced income 
from the ICA, but it was noted  he wanted to make  additional  payments to further reduce his 
mortgage and that Mr B felt a lower income  would  limit [his] ability to make  the most  of life 
while [he] can. Its documented that Mr B also wanted to continue  to save for his retirement, 
and he was able to use the annuity  income  to pay into a further pension arrangement, as 
was permitted. So I dont  think the choice of an annuity, instead of income  drawdown  can 
reasonably be said to have been an unsuitable  or inappropriate  recommendation.
From the paperwork Im persuaded that a conventional annuity was also discussed and 
discounted. Mr B didnt want to lock in the historically low annuity rates and felt that there is 
a potential for income growth from the Income Choice Annuity, without having to accept a 
lower starting level of income. I think Mr B was provided with sufficient information about the 
annuity recommended. It provided him a secure  income but had the potential  for growth 
unlike a conventional annuity.  I consider  that it met his circumstances and objectives at the 
time. So Im unable to conclude the annuity  sold to Mr B was unsuitable.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B as he feels  that he would be in a better  
position with more flexibility but for Prudentials advice. Though I am not sure what he 
considers would have been a more suitable product. As has been set out, once Mr B took 
his tax-free cash,  at the time, he then had limited options about what  he could do with the 
remainder of the funds.  I dont think the choice of an annuity, specifically the ICA, instead of 
income drawdown can reasonably be said to have been an unsuitable or inappropriate 
recommendation. 
So from what Ive seen  I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN09583624I invited Mr B and Prudential to respond  to my provisional decision. Prudential  responded 
agreeing with my provisional findings.  
Mr Bs representative replied asking that I reconsider my decision and clarifying its statement 
of the case. This response reiterated  that the advice wasnt  suitable,  claiming  the sale of the 
Prudential personal  pension plan was unnecessary. And, it emphasised  its position that Mr B 
wasnt given information  about the open market option, pointing again to the FCAs review  of 
Prudentials annuity  sales practices and subsequent fine, along with a copy of a standard 
master SR sent to Mr B, as evidence  something  went wrong in Mr Bs case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive not been provided with any new 
arguments or evidence  following my provisional decision, so my decision remains  the same 
as before (and as set out above). That means Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint for the 
reasons Ive previously  given. However, Ill respond to the points Mr Bs representative made  
following my provisional decision.
In reaching my conclusion  on Mr Bs complaint, I have taken into account  relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. I am also aware of the FCAs past business  review 
of Prudentials annuity sales practices.  The review  related specifically to non-advised annuity  
sales and the failings identified were largely  found in business sold over the phone. Mr B 
purchased the ICA following in person advice provided to him by a Prudential  adviser. From  
everything Ive seen, the review made  no comment on advised sales, so its findings dont 
persuade me that Prudential did something  wrong  in this case. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is more
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Bs representative has questioned  the lack of signed paperwork demonstrating Mr B read 
and understood  his options regarding the open market option.  But I am satisfied, on balance, 
that Mr B received the SR and all of the documents referenced  in it, including  the Money 
Advice Service  Your Pension, its time to choose  brochure, and the Client Agreement. So 
I am unable  to conclude  that Mr B wasnt made aware of the open market  option, his ability 
to go to another provider who may offer different products or that he could get independent 
financial advice from an adviser not tied to Prudential.
 
Ive also considered what Mr Bs representative  recently said about the standard master SR 
sent to Mr B in error and its comments focussing on Prudential products. Having done so, 
Im not persuaded it evidences the ICA wasnt suitable for Mr B. I dont  consider  the master  
SR to be a sales script. And the comments appear  geared towards  ensuring suitable  advice 
is provided. It is unfortunate Mr B was mistakenly sent this master  draft SR, but it would only 
be used by a Prudential adviser  after a consumer decided to proceed with advice limited  to 
Prudential products. In this case, the Client Agreement provided to Mr B clearly explained 
that the Prudential adviser  couldnt recommend products from other providers. So its 
reasonable the comments in the master  SR referred  only to Prudential  products. And in any 
event, as Ive explained,  Im satisfied that Mr B did receive the correct SR and the 
recommendations it contained were  suitable  for Mr B.
Ref: DRN09583625Mr Bs representative also complains about the advice to start a new personal  pension plan 
with Prudential. It asserts this was an unnecessary sale because a plan already existed that 
could take new contributions. But Ive not seen any evidence to support this. In fact, the SR 
states: I confirmed it may be possible for you to top up any contributions to an existing 
pension arrangement. You advised you do not have any other pension provision which could 
be topped up, and therefore wish to make separate arrangements. Ive seen no evidence  
this was questioned at the time, which I would expect to see if it was inaccurate. So I cant 
say that the new Prudential  personal pension was unsuitable given  his objectives and 
circumstances at the time of advice. 
I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to Mr B, but for the reasons 
Ive explained,  I wont be asking Prudential to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2021.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0958362