K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Financial Administration  Services  Limited (trading as Fidelity) 
relocated an off-shore Euro Bond Fund  investment they held in Luxembourg to the UK. This 
means theyre no longer able to receive income  from the investment in Euros, which  they 
require as they live abroad.  
background 
Mr and Mrs T started the investment in 1997 when they moved  abroad  from the UK. In 
around 2014 they started to receive information  relating  to the investment  from a UK Fidelity 
address, whereas it had always previously originated from Luxembourg. By 2017 theyd 
become very frustrated  that they appeared to be being treated as if they still lived in the UK.  
Fidelity instigated a complaint in relation to Mr and Mrs Ts concerns but it wasnt upheld.  
Fidelitys response at that point didnt really address their concerns and simply explained 
that Mr and Mrs T wouldnt  be able to transfer their account to Luxembourg from the UK.  
The matter  was referred to this service and in the course of our investigation Fidelity  
explained that in 2014 the servicing  of all retail clients with offshore investments  was moved 
from its Luxembourg office to its UK office. But thered  been  no changes  to the investment 
itself. Fidelity said its terms entitled  it to make  this sort of change and that details had been 
communicated to Mr and Mrs Ts IFA  although Mr and Mrs T strongly  disputed  that thered 
any ongoing involvement with an IFA.
Fidelity also offered Mr and Mrs T £200 as it felt its handling of their concerns hadnt  been to 
its usual standard.  And it said that in the short term it would be able to make an exception  to 
the requirement that payments from the investment now had to be in Sterling, as it was still 
going through a transition  period for this change  of procedure.   
Our investigator felt that Fidelitys offer was broadly fair. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy, so the matter  was referred to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I agreed that Fidelitys offer was fair. 
I said, in brief:
I was satisfied Mr and Mrs Ts investment  hadnt  been changed and remained  an 
offshore SICAV, registered in Luxembourg, managed as before and treated the same 
for tax purposes. 
I was satisfied Fidelity was entitled to move the servicing of Mr and Mrs Ts account 
to the UK. And I wasnt surprised that this type of change to its processes had 
occurred given that it was 22 years  since  the investment had started. I noted that 
thered been many  regulatory changes during this period.
I recognised that the changes have caused  concern to Mr and Mrs T and that, in 
particular, the need to now take redemptions in Sterling was inconvenient and 
potentially came at a cost. But as I thought  the changes were  reasonable ones that 
Fidelity was entitled to make,  I didnt think I could hold it responsible for any costs.  
Ref: DRN05951832I noted Mr and Mrs Ts concerns  that if they wanted to change  the investment  theyd  
have to sell it and potentially incur a capital gains tax (CGT) liability.  I explained  that 
Fidelity had confirmed  it would be able to make  special arrangements  for a cost-free, 
in-specie transfer  to another provider, on the understanding that they agree to 
change the share class and that they were also able to find a provider  that would 
accept the transfer. I felt this represented a reasonable solution to the matter and a 
potential way to avoid any CGT liability.
In respect of the IFA issue  I said that I thought it had come  about because of a 
requirement that details of the original IFA were  recorded against  the investment at 
the outset, because it was an off-shore investment. These details  had then been 
updated later when the original  IFA was taken over by another  business and the 
new IFA remained linked to the account  as had been confirmed in statements later 
sent to Mr and Mrs T. 
I thought it was likely therefore that the new IFA was informed of the 2014 changes to 
UK servicing of the investment. Whether this information was passed on to Mr and 
Mrs T was unclear. But even if the information  didnt make  its way to them then, I 
noted that theyd nevertheless been  sent further correspondence  since then that had 
alerted them  to the changes  hence them eventually raising  their concerns with 
Fidelity.  
In summary, I was satisfied the investment remained  the same  and that Fidelitys  
administrative changes had been  reasonable. So I felt its offer of £200  for the poor 
complaint handling,  along with a short-term facility to make a withdrawal in Euros and 
a potential free, in-specie transfer of the investment to another provider was broadly 
fair in all the circumstances.
Fidelity accepted my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs T didnt and said that they felt that Id 
reached my decision on the basis that they still lived in the UK. 
They stressed that theyd  made a Euro investment in a fund based in Luxembourg and 
Fidelity had never had anything other  than a non-UK address for them. The investment didnt 
go via any UK Fidelity organisation. The "Investor Information" theyd received stated that 
"Payment will normally be made  in the currency of denomination of the relevant fund...". It 
therefore seemed  incredible that a UK company was able to take over their account and 
require them to take repayments converted into Sterling and paid into a UK account. 
They added:
Until the investigator looked  into the complaint they didnt know  that the servicing of 
their account had been moved  to the UK. Theyd  assumed  it was a mistake  as 
Fidelity had not told them of the change.
My explanation that the investment hasnt changed and was, for instance, still treated 
the same  for tax purposes seemed to imply  that they are paying tax in the UK, which  
is not correct.
Making payments  in Euros  from their Euro investment was previously the normal  
mode of transfer  as stated in the "Investor  Information". The investigator explained 
that the term "off-shore" referred to the fact that the investment is not in the UK. But 
they dont see why thats relevant  as theyre  not in the UK and Luxembourg is not off-
Ref: DRN05951833shore to them.  Any reference to having income paid off-shore  appears to refer to 
having payments  made into their current account.  If so, this is ludicrous as their 
current account is obviously in the same country as them. 
At the same time they made the investment in question they made another  Euro 
investment in another Eurozone country and theyve had none of these problems 
with that investment. 
They didnt know which regulatory changes  I was referring  to in my provisional 
decision. If they were  UK regulatory changes  then they shouldnt affect their 
investment as neither it nor they are in the UK. If theyre European or international, 
they cant see why they should require an investment made  in one country  by people 
in a second country (but in the same  currency zone)  should then have to have 
redemptions converted into a different  currency and paid into an account in a third 
country.
They doubted that a UK resident with an investment in the Sterling area told that all 
payments would in future be in Euros and paid into an account  abroad would just find 
this "inconvenient".
Transferring the investment  wasnt an option as there is no IFA near enough to them 
who could arrange a transfer to another provider.
It was quite clear to them that they didnt receive  any information from an IFA since 
the investment  was started as they have all the correspondence ever received in 
relation to the account. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, while I recognise  Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed, Ive not been 
persuaded to change  my view. I still think Fidelity was entitled to make the changes it did to 
the servicing of their account and its offer is therefore a fair one.
I should confirm  that I understand  that Mr and Mrs T do not live in the UK and are resident 
abroad and pay tax accordingly. My provisional  decision  was written with that understanding.  
And, as I said before,  I do understand that the situation is a very frustrating one for them. 
But it remains the case that I dont think I can reasonably direct Fidelity to amend the way it 
is now servicing the account. I note what Mr and Mrs T have  said about the original investor 
information making reference  to payment normally (my emphasis) being in the currency  of 
the fund. But that does  imply  that payment may not always be made in that way and 
changes in circumstances may alter the situation.
I do also appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances make  it difficult  to facilitate the 
transfer of the investment. But I dont feel that in itself is sufficient to prompt  me to direct 
Fidelity to make further changes or change it administration  of the account.   
Ref: DRN05951834my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I consider the offer made by Financial 
Administration Services Limited to be fair and reasonable.  For clarity  that is:
£200 for the poor handing  of their concerns 
a short-term facility to make a withdrawal from their investment in Euros; and 
a free, in-specie transfer of the investment to another provider (change  in share class 
allowing)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0595183