K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that NewDay Ltd told her she could open a number  of credit card accounts  
but then it suspended the accounts and assumed Ms D was the victim  of fraud. Ms D is 
being helped  in her complaint by her son.
background
Ms D says she had existing NewDay accounts  and asked it about opening about five further  
accounts. She says she was told she could do that but the accounts were suspended  and 
she was told they had been  fraudulently opened.  Ms D says she opened the accounts and a 
fraud warning shouldnt have been recorded  on her credit  file and this warning has affected 
other credit applications. She also says as a result of what  happened  she had to go to a 
local police station to provide identity  documents.
NewDay says a number  of accounts were  opened within  a short  period of time which 
triggered its fraud measures. It says the account terms and conditions allow it to suspend  an 
account where it has fraud concerns. It accepts applying  a fraud warning  to Ms Ds credit file 
but says thats  not adverse information. NewDay accepts giving Ms D incorrect  information 
about opening the accounts and has apologised. It says if Ms D calls it then it will close  the 
accounts.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought overall  that NewDay  had dealt fairly 
with it. He thought  NewDay had given  incorrect information about  opening the accounts  but 
had apologised. He didnt  think NewDay had made a mistake  by suspending the accounts 
where it had reasonable security concerns. He also thought the marker had been  placed on 
Ms Ds credit  file to protect  her and shouldnt  affect any credit  applications. The investigator 
thought NewDays  request  to speak to Ms D directly to confirm  her instructions was 
reasonable and thought the Power  of Attorney that her son held was dated after the 
accounts had been opened.
Ms D doesnt accept that view and has asked for an ombudsmans review.  In summary she 
says compensation  should be paid for her time and expense in dealing  with this complaint. 
She also says she feels victimised and that NewDay has taken too long to deal with this 
complaint. Ms D would  like her accounts  closed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator.
I realise Ms D will be disappointed by my decision.  And I want to assure both Ms D and her 
son that Ive considered carefully the substantial amount of information hes submitted about  
this matter. In line with our role as an informal dispute resolution  service, Ill only refer to the 
matters I think  are key to this complaint. If I dont  mention all the areas Ms Ds son has 
referred to, its not that I havent considered them.
There is no question here that NewDay gave Ms D incorrect  information about opening so 
many accounts within a short period of time. But Im satisfied NewDay  has apologised for 
that mistake. And I dont  think  that sort of mistake justifies any compensation.
Ref: DRN00063242I dont think in the circumstances that NewDay made a mistake or acted unreasonably by 
applying security measures and suspending the accounts when so many were  opened.  Im 
satisfied that its up to a business to decide on such matters when exercising its commercial 
judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in. I also make it clear  that I think  such  
security measures are designed  to protect  a customer. Im also satisfied that having  looked 
at the terms and conditions of Ms Ds accounts that NewDay is entitled to take such steps 
where it has security concerns.
I think the fraud marker was reasonably placed  on Ms Ds credit file and I dont think  its an 
adverse marker  that should  affect future credit applications.
I appreciate Ms D would  like her accounts closed and can see that a letter  has been sent to 
NewDay. I dont think NewDay has acted unfairly  by wanting to speak  to Ms D directly before 
taking any further  steps.  And for the reasons Ive explained I think those actions are to 
protect her accounts. I accept there  is now a Power of Attorney  in place. But I also agree 
with the investigator, that even if thats the case,  NewDay is reasonably entitled to want to 
speak to Ms D before  taking further steps.
I can understand Ms Ds (and her sons)  concern about how long NewDay  took to reply to us 
about her complaint and how long its been going  on for. But overall  I cant  fairly order  
NewDay to pay the compensation she would like or do anything  further in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0006324