K820x#14Complaint
Miss M has complained that NewDay Ltd wont refund  her for cash not dispensed by a cash
machine.
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Neither party has responded.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not received any further or additional comments, Ive no reason to reach a different 
conclusion. 
My final decision is I wont  be asking NewDay Ltd to refund Miss M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00616712Complaint
Miss M has complained that NewDay Ltd wont refund her for cash not dispensed by a cash machine.
Background
Miss M has an Aqua  credit card with NewDay. On 13 February 2018,  she tried to withdraw £300 from 
a cash machine using her Aqua card. She said the machine didnt dispense the cash. However,  
NewDay debited her account with £300.
Miss M wasnt  happy with this outcome,  so she brought her complaint to this service.
What Miss M told us
Miss M told us that the cash machine didnt dispense  the £300  she requested and retained her card. 
She said she waited for around  five minutes, but nothing happened. As the cash  machine was outside 
a bank, she went  inside to ask someone to retrieve her card. She said the staff told her to contact her 
credit card provider, which  was NewDay.
NewDay told her it would raise a chargeback  with the bank, and it re-credited her account with the 
£300. She heard  nothing  further until April 2018 when NewDay re-debited her account  with £300.
NewDays response
In its final response letter, NewDay said the bank defended the chargeback claim. It wrote to
her, sending  her documents and inviting her comments. It said she didnt respond so it re-debited  her 
account.
Miss M replied that she hadnt received the documents from NewDay
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that NewDay refund the £300.
He thought there was no evidence that the cash had been dispensed.  He said the journal roll
for the cash machine  showed  an error  with the transaction and that Miss Ms card had been  
retained. And, NewDay  couldnt show the cash machine had balanced or operated  without a
fault that day.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding 
Miss Ms complaint.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks  to refund  customers if they didnt make or 
authorise payments  themselves. So, when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made the transactions  
themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
Ordinarily, to help me decide  what happened, Ill look at the evidence from the cash
machine. Ill look at the transactions  made that day; the balance in the machine; whether there was 
cash in the reject  bin and whether any other users of the machine reported faults.
NewDay says that, apart from the transactions, it doesnt have any of this evidence.  It says its not 
entitled to that information  from the cash machine owner. This is unsatisfactory. However,  in this 
case, there is additional information, which suggests that Miss M might have made a mistake.
Ref: DRN00616713NewDay has explained that, according  to the journal  roll, Miss M made  two consecutive  transactions 
at the same cash machine  but with different  cards.
I have looked at the journal roll for the cash machine.  This is an electronic print out of the 
transactions, which took place that day. It shows that Miss M inserted her Aqua credit card at 10:47,  
entered her PIN and an amount for £300. According to the journal  roll, the £300 was dispensed.
At 10:48, she inserted a second credit card. Again, the journal roll shows she entered her PIN and an 
amount for £300.  The cash machine registered an error, the transaction  was suspended, and the card 
was retained.
The card provider has also confirmed  that the card was hers. Miss M has now confirmed that she did 
use this other card but says that she used it before the Aqua Card.
I have also seen  that another customer used the cash machine at 10:46, before  Miss M used the 
machine. The machine  was working  and there are no recorded errors  for that
transaction.
A third customer used the machine at 10:59. There are no recorded errors for that
transaction and the machine appears to be working.
Normally, the use of a second card might be proof  that the first transaction failed.  But Miss M didnt  
say that. She said she used  the Aqua card after using  the other card. And, in this case, the journal roll 
shows that it was the second transaction, which failed and her second card, which  was retained,  not 
the Aqua card. In fact, she only admitted to the second card after NewDay pointed it out on the journal 
roll.
Ive also taken  into account that Miss M didnt complain about two failed transactions  or losing two 
cards in the machine. And, according to the card provider, she reported the second  card as lost on 7 
March 2018, not when it had been retained by the ATM.
Based on this evidence, I think its more likely  Miss M has confused the Aqua  card with the second 
card. And I consider  there is enough evidence  here for me to conclude  that Miss M withdrew £300 
cash with her Aqua card.
In these circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask NewDay  to refund the £300.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I wont be asking NewDay Ltd to refund Miss M.
Ref: DRN0061671