K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt do enough to help her when
she lost money as the result of a scam.
Miss Ds mother, Mrs D, acts as her representative. She has helped  Miss D bring this 
complaint. But for ease  of reading,  Ill mostly only refer to Miss D herself.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a
brief summary here.
In December 2018 Miss D was unfortunately the victim of a scam. She was tricked  into
sending £2,000 from her bank  account  with B to a third-party Lloyds  account.  She did so in
the belief that she was paying bank H with whom  she also holds an account.
It was a complex scam  which resulted in Miss D speaking to someone who she believed  to 
be H. She made the payment  to the account details provided under the belief shed sent the 
money to H to clear  her debt with it. The funds credited a third-party Lloyds account, rather  
than being paid to H as shed intended.
As soon  as Miss D became aware shed possibly been scammed,  she contacted B,
asking it to recover the funds shed sent. But by the time this happened, all of Miss Ds
funds had already  been  transferred out of the Lloyds account.
Miss D is unhappy and thinks Lloyds should refund her as it allowed a fraudster to open
and operate an account. She also says Lloyds didnt do enough to recover  her money. 
One of our investigators  thought there were limits  as to how much  of her complaint we could
consider under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. And for what we can consider,
she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She remained 
unhappy that Lloyds has allowed a fraudster  to open and operate an account. As I could see 
how much  this incident had affected  Miss D I spoke to Mrs D to explain why I agreed with 
the investigator that we couldnt  investigate all the complaint points Miss D had raised within 
our jurisdiction. And I explained for the parts we could - I couldnt find Lloyds had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Mrs D felt this was unfair.  As she still disagreed, I issued a 
jurisdiction decision in which I explained  the limits  on which  parts of Miss Ds complaint we 
can consider and why. 
In short,  I said the changes made  to our rules on 31 January  2019  that allow me to consider
a wider range of complaints  about  the actions of a firm receiving payments like this,
dont apply in Miss Ds circumstances as her payment was made before these came into 
effect. I clarified Im limited to only being  able to consider the aspect of Miss Ds complaint 
which relates to Lloydss obligations  under regulation 90(3)  of the Payment  Services  
Regulation 2017 (PSR 2017). Broadly  speaking this relates to the obligation Lloyds have  to 
co-operate with Miss Ds bank, B, in its efforts to recover her funds. 
Ref: DRN02754952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, there is not much I can
add to what the investigator  has already  said about how Lloyds co-operated  with B in its
efforts to recover Miss Ds funds.
Im satisfied upon B providing Lloyds with notification of APP fraud it promptly carried  out its 
investigation and correctly, within a reasonable time, advised B that none  of Miss Ds funds 
remained to be returned. Lloyds have shown all the funds  Miss D paid into the beneficiary 
account on 4 December 2018  were  removed by the beneficiary before it had received 
notification of APP fraud from B on 12 December 2018. 
Taking the above into consideration, I dont think there is evidence  to support that
Lloyds failed in its obligations under regulation 90(3) of the PSR 2017 to co-operate  with B in 
its efforts to recover Miss Ds funds. 
As Im satisfied that Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances, Im not 
upholding this complaint or making  an award.
my final decision
My final decision is I wont  be asking Lloyds  Bank  PLC to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2021.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0275495