K820x#14complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit  card in 
2012. Although  the card was issued  by Tesco, the company responsible for answering the 
PPI complaint is Pinnacle Insurance Plc (trading  at the time as Cardif Pinnacle).
Ill refer largely to Pinnacle for consistency.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this case and said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold shouldnt be upheld.  However Mr H disagrees  with the adjudicator  and his complaint  
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Mr H says the PPI was added without his permission and he had no knowledge whatsoever 
of it. But whilst I dont doubt he may genuinely  think this now, Ive seen quite a lot of 
documentary that shows the PPI was probably  agreed to and that it was added on to his 
card account. Ive also seen evidence that the PPI payments were regularly being added  on 
to his card and that he was provided with periodic reminders that the PPI existed.
Pinnacle says the PPI was sold during a phone call. It says Mr H was initially sent a quote 
about the PPI and it sent us a copy of a document headed up as Quote for Optional 
Payment Protection  Insurance  on your Credit Card dated 8 November  2012.  It says this 
was correctly addressed  and sent to Mr H and would have most probably been followed up 
with a phone  call, whereupon he agreed  to buy the PPI.
Pinnacle also sent us a copy  of a welcome letter about the PPI which  it says was sent to 
Mr H. I note it said thank you for taking Tesco Credit Card Payment Protection  Insurance 
which is provided by Cardif...  Your cover started on 7 December 2012.
In addition to this I see Mr Hs credit card statements  were  regularly showing that he had 
Cardholder Protection Plan charges being added. He was also periodically sent out PPI 
annual reviews, for example one Ive seen,  dated  4 December 2013.
Mr H denies he ever agreed to PPI with Pinnacle  over the phone  and he challenges it to 
provide a recording of the actual call. I accept  his right to ask this but I also dont think its 
unusual, or indeed unreasonable, that it cant produce such a recording after this length of 
time. I also think  the evidence above  does tend to show, quite strongly, that he must have 
been aware the PPI had been added.  If hed received the quote, welcome letter,  charges 
and annual reviews  without having asked  for the PPI, I think  he would have wanted to know 
why.
Ref: DRN07039492So Im afraid  I think the above is strong  and reliable enough evidence he agreed to the PPI 
and that he would have been able to see  regularly  and over a sustained period  that he 
had it on his credit card account.
I therefore think his consent was properly  obtained.
Pinnacle has said this wasnt an advised sale. I dont think  this particularly matters because   
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Hs situation  and I think he was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  Ive 
specifically looked  at his medical  background and note that the terms of the PPI policy say 
that pre-existing conditions are not excluded under your Tesco  Payment Protection  
Insurance..
Looking at the work he did, I agree  that any sickness  protection  Mr H had with his job would 
have been reasonably good. But this doesnt mean  the PPI cover wasnt of value to him. It 
would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if hed 
needed to claim. This would have been  in addition to any other means he had at that time. 
So I think this policy was of use.
Pinnacle still had to provide enough  information  to Mr H so he could make  an informed 
decision about what he wanted to do. I can see ways in which the quote form could have 
been set out more clearly but I dont  think theres enough evidence to say this would have 
changed what Mr H went on to do. Information  was contained on it about the price and what 
was generally covered.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but I think the evidence shows he agreed to this policy. He 
would have been able to see it wasnt something  he needed to have and he would  have also 
subsequently been to able see his credit card statements were  showing PPI being charged  
on them.
This means  Im not upholding his mis-sale complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Pinnacle Insurance Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0703949