K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly gave him loans which he couldnt  
afford to pay back. 
background 
Mr B took out 16 loans  with Uncle Buck between January 2015 and November 2017.
He says he was borrowing  to repay  existing  loans and his credit file shows  his use of short 
term loans. Mr B says he cant now repay  the loans and there is a balance outstanding.
In its final response to Mr Bs complaint, Uncle Buck offered to refund interest and charges 
on loans 4 and 5 as it said these were  granted in quick succession.  Mr B didnt  accept that 
offer and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  that Mr Bs complaint about  
loans 7 to 15 should also be upheld. She said it wasnt unfair  for Uncle Buck to offer loans 1 
to 3, 6 and 16 but at the point of loan 7 Mr Bs borrowing pattern was a cause  for concern 
and Uncle  Buck shouldve seen that he was persistently relying on these loans.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion and in particular said that it didnt think 
Mr B was persistently relying on the credit.  It pointed  out the gaps in the lending and set out 
the calls it had made to Mr B to check he was not in difficulty for loans 7 to 15. In addition to 
its offer for loans 4 and 5 Uncle Buck also offered to discount Mr Bs outstanding balance  by 
£430.
Mr B didnt accept that offer and so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. On 10 
January 2020  I issued  a provisional decision which set out why I was minded to agree with 
the adjudicators  conclusions  but in addition I was minded to also uphold loan 16.
Neither Uncle Buck nor Mr B had anything  to add to my provisional decision so I see no 
reason to depart from my conclusions which  are set out below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
Ref: DRN03921222With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. As Uncle  Buck has agreed  to refund all 
interest and charges in relation to loans 4 and 5 and to remove  these from Mr Bs credit  file I 
havent considered these  further save to include it in the redress  and as part of Mr Bs 
overall borrowing  pattern.  
Uncle Buck  has told us about  the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked Mr B for 
details of his income  and normal expenditure.  And Uncle Buck carried  out checks on Mr Bs 
credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Uncle  Buck to give Mr B loans 1 to 3 and 
6 on the basis  of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. It was early  in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Uncle Buck  to agree to lend. 
As Mr B hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation or Uncle Bucks 
offer in relation to loans  one to six, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Ref: DRN03921223Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Bs lending with Uncle Buck to see if there was a point 
at which  Uncle Buck should reasonably  have  seen that further lending  was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Uncle Buck  shouldve realised that it wasnt  reasonable to lend 
more money to Mr B.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan seven. I say this because:
When Mr B took out loan seven, hed been borrowing almost  continually and wasnt  
making any inroads  into the amount that he owed. 
Mr B had repaid loan 6 on the 30 June and on the same  day made an application for a 
loan of £560 which was declined. Mr B made  a further  application for a loan of £125 on 
15 July which  was also declined. I think this pattern of lending and requests for repeated  
borrowing shouldve alerted Uncle Buck to the likelihood  that Mr B was having problems 
responsibly managing  his money.
I think that Mr B lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 
seven onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of time.
The number  of loans, combined  with the total length of time Mr B had been borrowing 
from Uncle Buck was likely to have had negative implications on his ability  to access 
mainstream credit. This kept Mr B in the market for these high-cost loans.
The adjudicator has said that loan 16 is not part of this harmful borrowing but I cant see any 
reasoning for excluding  it. There is a gap between Mr B repaying loan 15 on 25 July 2017 
until 7 November 2017 when he took out loan 16. This is around three and a half months. I 
dont think this gap is long enough  to suggest that Mr Bs problems have passed  and I 
consider it is part of the same chain of borrowing that began  with loan 7. For these reasons I 
uphold it. 
So uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans 7 to 16 and ask Uncle  Buck to put things right in 
relation to these  loans  as well as its offer for loans  4 and 5.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr B having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
Ref: DRN03921224settled. Uncle Buck should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with 
Mr B.
E.Remove any adverse  information about loans  4 and 5 from Mr Bs credit file. The 
number of loans taken  from loan seven onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 7 to 16 should  be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0392122