K822xcomplaint
Mr B and Ms B acting for and trading as PH, through their legal representatives, say Royal & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) were negligent  and in breach of contract by failing or 
refusing to process a claim made on its commercial insurance.
background 
PH bought  a commercial combined policy with RSA in 2015.  This provided a range  of cover 
for the business  including  public and product liability insurance.
In May 2016  complaints were  made  to a local authority about  products being sold by PH. In 
June 2017 it was invited by the environmental  health  department  to attend a formal  interview  
regarding alleged breaches of food standards and safety regulations.
Shortly after receiving this request, PHs legal representatives initiated  a claim with RSA to 
meet the costs  associated with defending its position.
RSAs loss adjuster  investigated the claim in July 2017. It delivered  a detailed report  in 
September 2017. There was some limited to and fro between RSA and PHs  representatives  
during this time, largely  concerning the effect  on cover of any action being brought under 
devolved legislation  in Northern Ireland.
Little progress was made by RSA in deciding whether to accept or repudiate  the claim. And 
by June 2018 PH raised a formal  complaint. While  there were further exchanges, it was 
unsatisfied with progress  and brought its complaint to this Service in October  2018.
Initially RSA said we couldnt consider the complaint because it had been  brought by Ms B 
and it wasnt aware  of her interest  in the policy. PHs  representatives asserted she was the 
sole trader covered by the insurance.  It said Mr B, who had incepted  the policy and was 
named on it, was employed in a management  capacity  by PH.
Ultimately Mr B joined the complaint and RSA were  content to consider matters.  In its final 
response to him it outlined three  main  reasons  for not progressing  the claim made by PH.
Firstly, Ms B wasnt  listed  on the policy and as such it was for Mr B to request cover. It hadnt  
received any contact from him, either  confirming his wish to make a claim or asking to cover  
Ms B. Nor about Ms Bs capacity in the enterprise.
It was also a condition  of the policy that all products must be sourced from within the EU, 
Australia, USA or Canada  or have an EU Safety accreditation. It required evidence  of this 
before considering the claim.
And, even  if the sourcing condition was met, there was an exclusion under the policy  for 
legal costs and expenses in connection  with any breach of duty arising from a deliberate  or 
premeditated act, event or omission.
PH, through  its legal representative,  raised several  objections to RSAs  final response.  For 
example, it was unhappy RSA was questioning who could  bring  the insurance claim. It 
asserted again  that Ms B was the sole trader and that Mr B was an employee, who had set-
up the policy. PH said that in any event the policy provided cover  for employees of the 
business as well the entity.
Ref: DRN08410772PH said RSA had never made any specific enquiries  in relation to the particulars of its 
products. It also felt the citing of an exclusion related to breach of duty was made without 
any good reason.  It said this had been typical of RSAs neglect in providing a clear  view 
about its claim.
Further, in an example of RSAs poor communications  and handling of its claim,  PH noted 
the final response letter had been sent to its business address when RSA was aware it had 
ceased trading.  There was a four-month delay between the correspondence being issued in 
February 2019 and PH receiving a copy of the response via this Service.
The investigator considered the arguments  made by both sides. She found it was PHs 
responsibility to make  sure RSA knew how best to communicate with it. And that it hadnt 
provided all the information  that had been  requested in support of its claim.
But the investigator also concluded the main reason for the slow progress with PHs  claim 
was communication  failures by RSA.  For example,  it hadnt  been clear with the policyholder 
what the outstanding issues were in relation to the claim and what information it required.
Specifically, concerning who had an interest  in the policy, while  acknowledging  Mr Bs 
responsibility as the sole point  of contact on the policy for communicating  about  the claim,  
the investigator concluded:
I cant  see RSA ever informed [PH] of these issues, and in fact misled the complainants into 
thinking everything was okay  by entertaining  the claim  in the early stages and then reducing 
their communication without any clear information. This was an error on RSAs part and I 
conclude that their communication should have been better.
The investigator awarded £500  to PH for the trouble  it had been caused by RSAs actions. 
And she urged more  effort from both parties for better communications. RSA accepted the 
investigators view.
PH, through  its legal representatives,  agreed  with elements of the investigators findings,  but 
it raised a number of matters in response. It wanted an ombudsmans decision, so its 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. Im upholding PHs  complaint.
Im not going  to rehearse everything  the investigator  has already said.  Ill focus  on what I 
think are the key points  made by PH in responding to her view.
PHs main concern is the financial  cost its incurred  defending allegations about breaches of 
food standards  and safety regulations brought by the local authority. It says its burdened by 
that liability. I also recognise PHs confidence in RSA and the claim process, which it initiated 
in 2017, has been undermined. It cites various  failings in handling  and communications.
I note PHs  legal representative thought  an appropriate remedy  was for RSA to be compelled 
to honour the original  claim in its entirety. I think there are a number of problems with this 
proposition.
Ref: DRN08410773When a policyholder makes a claim the onus is on them to show,  on the balance of 
probabilities, that loss or damage has occurred which is covered by the policy. On the face 
of PHs policy I can see there  are special terms and endorsements. One of these says:
It is a condition precedent to liability under this Policy that all Products are sourced from 
within the European Union, Australia, United  States of America or Canada only or have an 
EU Safety accreditation. 
Its reasonable for RSA to seek evidence PH has complied with this requirement. But its 
been a major sticking point thats emerged. I can see from RSAs  records this was a matter  
raised by its loss adjuster when it delivered  its report in September  2017. But PH says the 
sourcing information  wasnt requested at this point.
I can see RSA did request sourcing information  about PHs products in July 2018. While I 
understand the argument its representative made  about confusion surrounding this request, I 
note that it wasnt  until October 2019  it made  certain relevant information available  via this 
Service.
It seems  to me both parties are responsible for communication failings here. And like the 
investigator, I dont  think it would  be appropriate for this Service  to determine  whether PHs 
claim should be accepted or repudiated. That must  be a matter  for RSA. Its too early in the 
process for the involvement of this Service in that regard.
Of course,  if PH has concerns about  RSAs assessment of its claim after responding to 
reasonable requests for information in support of it, and if it cant  get a satisfactory  answer to 
any issues arising, then it will be able to raise a complaint to this Service.
I agree  with the investigators observation about  RSA raising  the possibility of relying on a 
term in the policy to repudiate the claim due to a deliberate or premeditated act, event or 
omission. Where an insurer relies on such an exclusion it must be able to show why it 
should apply.  It hasnt done  that in the case file its provided.
So, RSA must be allowed  to consider PHs  claim having proper  regard to the terms and 
conditions it entered  into with it. But I would  urge it to expedite  matters given how long the 
claim has been ongoing.
The investigator found that both parties  had some responsibility for the things that have gone 
wrong with the progress  of this claim. But on balance she thought  the most significant 
element of the delays had been caused  by RSAs  failure to be clear with PHs 
representatives. Both about  the issues outstanding with the claim and the information it 
required to progress matters.
The investigator made a substantial  award against RSA for the trouble it had caused  PH. 
Although at the lower end of the spectrum, I dont propose to disturb the award.  Thats 
because I dont think increasing it by a few hundred pounds would address in a material way 
the substantive area of concern here - the speedy and fair resolution of PHs claim.
Ref: DRN08410774my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im partially upholding  this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay £500 to PH in recognition  of the trouble 
its responsible for because of the substantial  delays in responding to its claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask PH to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0841077