K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused to pay part of his claim under 
his pet policy.
background
Mr J bought his policy  to cover his dog from 1 October 2017. He said he was previously with 
another pet insurer.  Other than some superficial injuries that his dog suffered running 
through fields, Mr J didnt declare that his dog had suffered any other conditions.
So Allianz issued  the policy with no exclusions.
Mr J then made a claim for vet fees dated 27 April 2018 for two conditions, one being that 
his dog was stiff and unable to jump  up. Both Mr J and his vet said this condition  started  on 7 
October 2017. The claim for this was £379.71. The second condition was for a chest wound, 
which was treated from 4 November 2017  to 11 November 2017  and the claim for this was 
£111.34.
Allianz asked for the full clinical history of Mr Js dog from his vet. That showed his dog had 
left fore lameness on 10 March 2014  and 27 May 2014.  On 23 July 2014, the dogs right fore 
was swollen and lame. Right hind lameness was noted on 19 May 2016, and right fore 
lameness on 9 May 2017. 
On this basis on 3 August  2018,  Allianz placed  exclusions on Mr Js policy  for disorders of 
hips and hind limbs, which were reviewable  with a diagnosis of the issues noted  in the vet 
history for right hind lameness seen  on 19 May 2016 and right fore lameness seen on 9 May 
2017. 
Consequently, Allianz refused to pay Mr Js claim for stiffness  but paid his claim for the chest 
wound less the excess.
Mr J complained. Allianz went back to Mr Js vet for further information. Following this, it 
removed the exclusions but since the claim form showed both Mr J and his vet thought this 
stiffness issue started on 7 October  2017 the claim was not payable since  the condition  
arose within the first 14 days of the policy. No claims are payable  in such  cases given the 
policy exclusion. 
Mr J complained again but Allianz wouldnt change its stance so he brought  his complaint to 
us. The investigator  didnt think Allianz  had done  anything wrong. Mr J disagreed and so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
I understand that Mr J will be disappointed with my decision. However should he not wish to 
accept it, his rights to take this matter further remain unfettered.  
Ref: DRN01178842My role is simply to assess the evidence and to ascertain  if Allianz were  wrong  to refuse  to 
pay his claim for his dogs  stiffness in the sum of £379.71. This service is not the regulator  of 
providers of such insurance, the Financial Conduct Authority is. Therefore, we cant fine 
businesses or indeed ask them to change  their business practices.
Mr Js policy  in common with almost all pet policies details on the schedule, the key 
facts/policy summary and in the body of the policy itself that it will not pay any claims where 
the illness or injury  occurred within the first 14 days of the policy  starting. Since this is so well 
detailed in the schedule, the key facts and the policy itself, I consider this was adequate and 
proper notice of such a limitation.  And I consider this was then consequently brought to Mr 
Js attention appropriately. So in this regard, Allianz  did nothing wrong since  this limitation is 
so clearly explained. I also dont consider it to be an unusual term, as its commonly found in 
almost all pet policies.  
Here both Mr J and his vet completed  a claim form indicating that his dogs  illness had 
started within the first 14 days of cover starting. So I dont  consider Allianz  did anything 
wrong in wanting  to investigate this. Further, the vet history confirms  his dog had a history  of 
lameness prior to this in any event.
But despite  so clearly indicating on the claim form that the date for which  the symptoms 
claimed for started within the first 14 days of the policy  start date, Mr J considered Allianz  
was wrong to refuse to pay his claim for this reason. So Allianz  had further discussions with 
Mr Js vet and referred the matter  to its own vet expert.  
The issue  was drilled down to being  that Mr Js dog had been suffering stiffness for about a 
week up to 7 October 2017  and then again in March 2018. Mr Js vet thought  these issues 
should be treated  as distinctly  two separate unrelated issues.  However,  in my view that still 
poses a question  about why both Mr J and his vet so clearly indicated  on the claim form that 
the illness started on 7 October 2017.  There was no point in doing  so, if Mr J and his vet 
were then saying that was incorrect. The actual  vet history indicates otherwise.
The vet history also doesnt indicate  the issues are so separate  as Mr Js vet indicated on 
the notes both on 7 October 2017  and 19 April 2018 that if the issue (my emphasis)  
continues an MRI should be carried out. So consequently,  I dont consider Allianz vet came 
to an unreasonable conclusion that the facts  of the matter were that Mr Js dog was suffering 
from a recurring condition. Both Mr Js vet and Allianz vet agreed it was muscle strain and 
Mr Js vet indicated initially that he also felt it was a recurring injury, but decided to change  
his mind later. 
So with this weight  of evidence, I dont consider Allianz was unreasonable  in deciding the 
claim for this stiffness issue occurred  within the first 14 days  of the policy  starting given the 
information on the claim form and the subsequent  lengthy discussions. Further,  given its 
policy, schedule and key facts all brought this to Mr Js attention, this means in my view,  that 
this exclusion was appropriately brought to Mr Js attention when he bought the policy.
Lastly, given Mr Js disagreement and the consequent detailed discussions with his vet, I 
also dont consider Allianz took too long to deal with his claim and give its final decision  on 
the matter.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN01178843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0117884