K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC closed his account without any notice and has loaded  
a fraud  (CIFAS)  marker against  him which is preventing him opening an account elsewhere.
background 
Mr R said that he is in financial difficulties,  and as he doesnt  have a bank account he cant 
receive benefits he is due. He said the CIFAS marker is unfair and is preventing him from 
opening a new bank account and he wants Lloyds to remove the marker.
Lloyds said it closed  Mr Rs basic bank account  following a risk assessment, and wrote 
giving him 60 days' notice. Lloyds said Mr R had raised five dispute claims and two fraud  
claims in the last 12 months  and this demonstrated  behaviour of the customer amounts to 
fraud. Lloyds said its decision to close Mr Rs account was taken in accordance  with the 
terms and conditions of the account.  Lloyds said its under a duty to report  misuse of an 
account and had sufficient grounds to report the information it held.
Lloyds best practice  guide says about fraud  markers:
Before an organisation is able to place a warning about you on our database they must be in 
a position to make a formal complaint to the police  or other relevant law enforcement 
agency. They must have carried  out checks of sufficient depth to satisfy this standard  of 
proof. Typically organisations will have  found material  falsehoods in the personal  information 
supplied on an application, proposal  or claim,  or in the case of an account, policy  or service,  
and will be able to demonstrate that the behaviour of the customer  amounts to fraud. A 
criminal offence must  be identifiable.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr Rs had raised many disputes  and chargebacks  and 
the retailer on one had shown the items  were  delivered to the correct address. But he said 
Mr Rs disputed transactions didnt mean hed lied. He said Lloyds would need to evidence 
this in order to carry  the high bar of the CIFAS  marker, but it hadnt responded. The 
investigator recommended the complaint be upheld as it wasnt  fair for Lloyds to apply a 
CIFAS marker  before  all checks were completed  given  the implications for Mr R. He said 
Lloyds should  pay Mr R £500 for the inconvenience hes suffered. 
Lloyds disagreed with the investigator saying  Mr R had changed his version of the events 
surrounding a disputed transaction and used the same IP address in logging  into his 
computer as for a transaction  hed denied making.  It also said the majority of his claims had 
been shown to be false. It said Mr R had opened  multiple accounts  with Lloyds, with at least  
one left with a large debit balance and it said he is still trying to open further accounts by 
changing his name and address to try and bypass fraud  controls. 
The investigator said IP addresses  can be shared  through  multiple devices and this doesn't  
necessarily suggest  this was Mr R. He said Lloyds hadnt demonstrated  that Mr R had lied 
about his transactions. 
Lloyds said Mr R had falsely claimed that he had no dealings with an online supplier, but the 
supplier had showed that the goods were  delivered  to his address. Lloyds said Mr R had 
variously claimed that he did, and did not have  an account with the supplier and later that his 
account had been hacked.  Lloyds requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
Ref: DRN06766852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at Lloyds handling  of Mr Rs bank account  and the fraud marker it has 
put against him to see if it has treated him in accordance with the correct procedures,  and 
treated him fairly.
Lloyds gave Mr R notice  of the closure of his account. Banks may decide they no longer  
wish to bank with a customer, but basic accounts  carry different and more  rigorous 
conditions concerning closure  than a normal current account. Lloyds conditions  say a basic 
account will only be cancelled if the account  was obtained by the provision of false 
information, or the account was used  illegally.  I havent seen evidence of these or the other 
actions alleged by Lloyds and Lloyds hasnt responded to my request for its reasons. I think 
that Lloyds should re-open Mr Rs basic bank  account. 
Because the implications of having  an adverse  fraud marker are so serious, when  a 
business puts a fraud  marker  against  a customer it must be able to demonstrate that this is 
in response to a serious criminal action. The standard of proof required before a marker is 
placed is set out within  Lloyds guidance  (above). This states  that the evidence must put 
Lloyds in a position to make a formal complaint to the police  or other  relevant law 
enforcement agency.
Following several requests from our service, Lloyds  has said that it has enough evidence  to 
make a formal complaint  to the police  or other law enforcement agency about Mr R's 
conduct, but isnt actually  required  to do so and hasnt made a referral.
The investigator said he hadnt seen enough evidence to meet  the required standard  of proof  
for a fraud marker. I have  looked at the evidence Lloyds has provided  and agree with the 
investigator that we havent seen enough  evidence  to satisfy the standard  of proof required 
to justify the placing of the CIFAS  marker against Mr R.
Lloyds said that the IP address for the disputed transaction and Mr Rs log in are the same. 
This can be an indication  of a link between a consumer and a transaction, but isnt 
conclusive as IP addresses can be shared by different  computers.
Lloyds said Mr R made a false claim as the online  provider  had shown  that the goods in the 
disputed transaction  had been delivered  to his address. Lloyds also said Mr R had made  
conflicting statements  about an online providers account. I can see that the transaction  was 
low value, and that it would not normally associated  with fraud,  and Mr R thought  hed closed 
his account with the provider after a previous problem.  Lloyds  said he was confused  about  
which claim was disputed  and I think this explains the conflicting responses that he gave  
Lloyds. 
I dont agree with Lloyds  that a number  of declined claims in a short  period of time 
demonstrates behaviour  amounting to fraud.  Further proof of material  falsehoods 
amounting to criminal  conduct is required to justify  a fraud  marker in my view and Lloyds 
hasnt provided  this and so it should withdraw  the fraud marker from Mr Rs record. I can see 
from Mr Rs description  that the fraud marker has made his life very difficult  and he hasnt 
been able to manage his finances.  I think Lloyds should pay Mr R £500 compensation for the 
impact the marker  has had upon him.
Ref: DRN06766853my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that Mr Rs complaint about  the fraud 
marker is upheld. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to remove  the CIFAS marker it placed  against 
Mr R, and further I require  Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr R £500 compensation for the impact 
that its poor service has had upon  him. I also require Lloyds Bank PLC to re-open  Mr Rs 
basic bank account,  or offer him a new basic bank account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 May 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman    
Ref: DRN0676685