K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent her 
money without carrying  out adequate checks to make sure she could afford to repay the 
loans.
Mrs H wants Satsuma to pay her compensation and amend her credit  file.
background
Mrs H took out three instalment loans with Satsuma. The first in October  2016  was for £600.  
Satsuma expected Mrs H to repay the loan over 26 weeks at about £191 each month. Mrs H 
repaid loan one early  at the end of October 2016.
Mrs H took out the second loan for £800  in May 2017. Mrs H was due to repay the second 
loan by three monthly instalments of £394.  She repaid loan two by 10 August 2017.
Mrs H took out loan three for £1,200 in late September 2017. Satsuma expected her to 
repay the loan over nine months  by instalments of £266. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs complaint be upheld.  She thought that 
Satsuma carried out adequate checks before agreeing  loans one and two. And based on the 
income and expenditure figures  Mrs H gave Satsuma, it was reasonable to have agreed to 
lend.
The adjudicator thought  that by loan three, Satsuma shouldve  also asked Mrs H about her 
other short term loans.  But even if Satsuma had done this, the adjudicator  thought that loan 
three wouldve still appeared  affordable  for Mrs H.
Mrs H doesnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. Mrs H says that when she took 
out loan three, she had to apply for other  loans on the same day so that she could afford the 
repayment. Mrs H says that shes partially settled loan three and wants Satsuma to remove 
the loans from her credit file
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mrs H 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs H was borrowing, the length of the 
agreement and her borrowing history. But there wasnt a set list of checks that Satsuma had 
to do.
Even if I find that Satsuma didnt  carry out adequate checks, it wont  necessarily mean  that I 
must uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. I would  need  to be persuaded  that with proportionate  
checks, Satsuma wouldve discovered that some or all of the loans werent affordable for 
Mrs H.
Ref: DRN09975172loan one
Satsuma expected Mrs H to repay a relatively  modest proportion of her declared income of 
£1,400 each month. From the information Mrs H gave  about her income and expenses it 
looked as though she could afford  the repayments  on loan one. Satsuma also carried  out 
checks to include any undeclared credit commitments as part of its affordability  assessment.
I cant reasonably say that Satsuma was wrong to agree loan one based  on what  Mrs H told 
it about her circumstances and the expenditure buffer that it added  to her declared 
expenses.
loan two
Mrs H applied for loan two six months after shed repaid loan one. Although she asked  to 
borrow more this time, Mrs H also declared a higher  monthly income of £1,750.
I think that a reasonable check shouldve involved Satsuma asking Mrs H about her income,  
living expenses and regular financial  commitments. As Satsuma  has given us evidence  that 
it asked for this information,  I think it carried out proportionate checks.
loan three
I agree  with the adjudicator that by this stage Satsuma shouldve been  doing a bit more to 
make sure that Mrs H hadnt  become reliant on short term lending.  This was because  Mrs H 
had some difficulties repaying  loan two and she was asking to borrow more  than the 
previous loan over a longer period of time.
I think it was reasonable  to expect Satsuma to take account of any other outstanding payday 
or instalment loans  that Mrs H had at the time, as well as her living  expenses  and regular 
credit commitments.
As I dont have any evidence to suggest  that Satsuma asked Mrs H about her other short  
term lending commitments, I need to consider what it wouldve seen with better checks.
The adjudicator said that around  the time that Mrs H applied for loan three, she was also due 
to pay another  short  term lender about £155.  Mrs H had told us that she took out more loans 
on the same  day. As this service is dealing with some of Mrs Hs other complaints, Ive had a 
look to at them to make sure that the figure the adjudicator used is accurate.
Although the first repayment on the other  instalment loan that Mrs H took out shortly before  
loan three  was £155, she was then due to make further monthly payments  the highest of 
which was £484.  I think that its fairer to use the highest figure  as Mrs H was due to repay 
loan three  over nine months.
I can also see that Mrs H had another  outstanding  instalment  loan. She was due to make 
monthly payments  of around £136  at the same time as repaying Satsuma. 
Finally, Mrs H applied for another payday  loan on the same  day that she applied  for loan 
three with Satsuma. It isnt however possible to be sure which  of the two loans Mrs H took 
out first, so I cant reasonably say that Mrs H wouldve mentioned  it had Satsuma asked at 
the time.
Ref: DRN09975173Satsumas records show that Mrs H declared  a monthly income  of £2,450  with monthly  
expenses of £400 around the time of loan three. Satsuma increased Mrs Hs expenses to 
over £510  to take account of any undeclared credit  commitments it could see on her credit 
file. This left Mrs H with just under £1,940 of disposable income. So even if Satsuma had 
known about all of the other short term loans (including the one Mrs H took out on the same 
day), I cant say that loan three wouldve  appeared unaffordable as a result.
I understand that Mrs H has since settled  loan three  and would like Satsuma to remove the 
loans from her credit file. As I dont find that Satsuma was wrong to lend,  I cant reasonably 
require it to remove any of the loans from Mrs Hs credit file or pay her compensation. Im 
sorry that this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs H.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0997517