K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB)  refused  to provide him with a tax deduction  
certificate in relation to the cashback  paid on his current account, despite repeated requests, 
and about its poor customer  service  and complaint handling. 
background
On 13 April 2018 2018 Mr D telephoned  TSB to ask for a tax deduction certificate in relation 
to the cashback  incentive  paid to him. He says that TSB had no idea what  he was talking 
about. So during the call he made a complaint. 
TSB sent a response to the complaint dated 18 April 2018. But it didnt deal with the 
complaint Mr D had made  instead it said hed requested a certificate of rewards  to show 
the amount he earned for the £5 per month reward scheme. And it also discussed  an 
interest summary. 
Mr D says he didnt receive this letter. So he called again on a weekend  day around a 
fortnight after his first call. He says he was on hold for ninety minutes. When he eventually 
got through,  he asked for a copy of the letter  TSB said it had sent him, but was told to call 
back the next day because the operator couldnt contact the complaints team.  After  then 
speaking to a manager, Mr D was told a copy of the letter  could be requested  without him 
having to call again. 
Once hed received the missing letter, and seeing  it didnt actually deal with what hed asked 
for, Mr D visited a TSB branch on 29 May 2018.  He provided a copy of a certificate  he had 
from another bank  to show what he was after. He said he had an argument with the cashier 
who said shed never heard  of it, and therefore he must be wrong. And he saw that cashier 
disagree with another cashier who said he might  be correct.  
Shortly after that, Mr D brought his complaint  to us. 
Our investigator asked  for information  from TSB and spoke with HMRC. In her view sent to 
Mr D she said the following:
Theyve (TSB) confirmed the cashback  they pay is done as an incentive and isnt 
taxable.
Ive also spoken  to HMRC  about  this matter. They advised:
its not something that needs to be declared
I explained how TSB wouldnt provide a tax deduction certificate because they say 
tax cant be claimed back from it. When I asked him if this was correct he said:
Yes that is correct.
Im satisfied tax isnt deducted from the cashback received and so TSB havent made 
a mistake or acted unreasonably by not supplying a tax deduction certificate
She also thought  Mr D had spent  longer  on the phone than was necessary because  he 
wouldnt accept what TSB had said.
Ref: DRN09167932Finally, she agreed that while TSB hadnt responded to Mr Ds actual complaint in its letter, 
she thought the information it had provided  would  be useful to him in completing  a tax return. 
Mr D responded, asking for a decision from an ombudsman. He still thought the account 
cashbacks were paid net of tax, and didnt  think what HMRC said was relevant.  He said our 
investigator had ignored the fact that after his complaint hed received nothing, not even  an 
acknowledgment, and had had to ring TSB during the period  of its I.T. difficulties, which  
meant he was on hold for nearly 90 minutes. 
He also said hed yet to receive an interest summary, despite repeated chasing. He added 
that he wasnt happy with the short deadline  given to him to respond  and the error in our 
investigators view about the response  date. 
Our investigator said she hadnt  seen any evidence that the cashback was subject to tax, so 
she was unable to agree that TSB had made a mistake in not providing a tax deduction 
certificate. And she didnt  think  shed  failed to acknowledge  Mr Ds complaint about service  
levels. 
The complaint then came to me for a decision. Mr D sent a further email asking me to 
respond to specific questions raised by him. And he and our investigator also had some 
further exchanges about whether the cashback was taxable.
I issued a provisional decision dated 18 December  2018. My provisional  findings were:
I can see Mr D feels very strongly that TSB is obliged to provide him with a tax deduction 
certificate, and that hes received poor customer service. Thats understandable. But Im 
afraid its likely  Ill have  to disappoint him, as Im minded  to agree with our investigator that 
TSB neednt  do anything further in response to the complaint. 
request for a tax deduction certificate  on cashback payments
Mr D believes  that the payment  TSB has made to him for 12 months from account opening is 
paid net of tax. He says he is a non-taxpayer and is therefore entitled to claim  back  that tax. 
In order to do so, he says he needs a tax deduction  certificate as evidence.  When he made  
his complaint to us, he provided an example of a certificate he got from another bank. 
Mr Ds main complaint is that TSB will not provide him with this certificate,  and that hes 
been given poor customer  service  during  his efforts to obtain it.
He wants me to comment on why the TSB cashback isnt taxable,  whilst a payment made by 
another bank  in what he says is identical circumstances is. 
My role isnt to provide tax advice,  or to comment on what TSBs obligations are in relation to 
deducting tax from payments  made.  My role is to consider whats  fair and reasonable in the 
context of an individual complaint.
Whatever the rights and wrongs of the tax position is, TSB have told our service that it 
doesnt believe the payment is taxable.  It follows from this that no tax has been  deducted,  
and that the payment has not in fact been  made  net of tax. So, as a matter of fact, it cant  be 
expected to produce a tax deduction  certificate  where it hasnt actually deducted any tax. 
Ref: DRN09167933If Mr D is concerned that TSB isnt doing the right thing with respect to the tax treatment of 
incentive or reward payments, then he may wish to consider raising this with HMRC himself. 
But for the reasons Ive given, I dont  think that TSB has done anything wrong at this point in 
not providing him with a tax deduction certificate. 
poor customer service
Mr D has said he received  poor customer service when trying to obtain  the certificate. I can 
see that it mustve been frustrating not to have  his complaint acknowledged, and to spend 
extended time on hold when  calling  TSB.  And he also made a visit to a branch where he 
says staff disagreed  in front of him. TSBs written response to Mr Ds complaint also missed 
the point. 
Im afraid I dont have  the power  to consider those aspects of Mr Ds complaint that concern 
how TSB dealt with his original complaint.  Under the rules that apply to our service,  we can 
only consider complaints  about regulated activities, and complaint handling isnt one of 
these. 
Mr D did make repeated attempts to obtain  the certificate he wanted from TSB, including a 
branch visit and a long wait on the phone. But since TSB had already said it couldnt assist  
him prior to that, I dont  think I can hold TSB responsible for this additional  time spent  by Mr 
D in this respect. So I wont be asking TSB to do anything about  this. 
interest summary complaint
Mr D has complained that TSB has failed to provide him with an interest  summary, or to 
substantively respond to his complaint about  that failure. 
Im not going  to deal with that complaint  in this decision, as it is a separate matter  to this 
one. Our investigator will need  to look into it further  first, and TSB be given a chance to 
respond.
My provisional decision was that I didnt uphold the complaint. TSB had no comments  on my 
decision. Mr D wasnt happy  with my decision, and he also wasnt happy with how our 
service had handled his complaint. Weve responded to his complaint about our service,  
acknowledged where we didnt do the right thing, and paid Mr D compensation for that. So I 
wont be commenting further on his service complaint  here, other than to add my apologies  
for our poor handling and to assure Mr D that his complaint about us wont  influence my 
consideration of his complaint against TSB.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I still think my 
provisional decision is the right one, although I know that Mr D will be very disappointed  by 
this. Ill explain why. There  are two parts to Mr Ds complaint; the first is that TSB have failed 
to provide him with a certificate of tax deducted  from his cashback payments, and the 
second is that TSB provided exceptionally poor customer service  in relation to his complaint. 
Ill deal with each  in turn. 
Tax Deduction Certificate
Ref: DRN09167934In addition to reviewing the file, Ive looked carefully  at the arguments Mr D has put forward 
in his emails to us about my decision, and Ive listened to the call he had with a senior 
manager at our service.  In summary, Mr D says:
Ive failed to investigate his complaint and instead Ive just relied on what  TSB 
had to say. I havent looked behind its statement that it believes the 
cashback payments  arent taxable  to satisfy myself as to what  the correct  tax 
position is. He says its my role to establish what the tax position  is, it 
shouldnt be for him to do so.
That I havent considered the evidence hes provided showing such payments 
are taxable including links to several  web articles  and evidence from another 
bank that in identical circumstances have deducted  tax from payments and 
provided him with a certificate showing deductions. 
Mr D also told our senior manager that Id transmuted HMRC saying that the payment 
doesnt have to be declared  into HMRC  saying it wasnt taxable, when this is not the same 
thing. He is right on both points. There is a difference between  whether a payment is taxable 
and whether it needs to be declared.  Ive looked carefully at what I said in the background to 
my provisional decision and I agree that I did summarise this part of our investigators view 
incorrectly, and Im sorry for that. In the background above Ive now quoted directly from this 
part of our investigators view, rather than summarising it.  But  I should  say that this error in 
the provisional decision didnt influence my findings,  because I didnt think HMRCs position 
in relation to the payments was relevant to my consideration  of the complaint. Ill explain why 
later in my decision, but I wanted to acknowledge this error  upfront as I can see that it 
affected Mr Ds confidence in the provisional decision. 
Mr D thinks TSB was obliged to give him a tax deduction certificate  because  in Mr Ds 
opinion the cashback payments he received were subject to tax and should have had tax 
deducted before being  paid to him. 
When Mr D complained to us, he told us that he wanted the business to put things right for 
him by providing a copy of the tax deduction statement. 
But I can only ask TSB to provide such a statement if it has in fact deducted  tax. And 
because TSB doesnt believe the cashback payment to Mr D is taxable it didnt deduct tax. 
So it isnt possible for me to tell it to provide a certificate showing tax deducted. 
I havent reached any conclusion as to whether TSB should  have deducted  tax from the 
cashback payments  to Mr D, because  it wasnt necessary for me to do so in order  to resolve 
his complaint. This is because even if I was to reach  the conclusion  that TSB should  have 
deducted tax from the payments its too late for tax to be deducted  because  the payments 
have already been made to Mr D. There isnt any tax deducted  to show  on a certificate, so I 
cant ask TSB to produce one even if I think it should have deducted tax. 
Mr D wanted me to defer my decision until he got an opinion  from HMRC as to how TSB 
should have handled the payments  that is, was TSB obliged  to deduct tax from the 
cashback before paying it to the customer.  But I decided not to do so because  it wouldnt 
help me in reaching a decision on Mr Ds complaint.  A view from HMRC  as to what it thinks  
TSB should have  done can only be a view after the event. The fact is that TSB didnt deduct 
tax from the cashback  payments. It made them without  any such deduction.  So it cant 
produce the certificate Mr D wants even  if I told it to. 
Ref: DRN09167935I understand that Mr D finds this very unsatisfactory. He thinks there  is a wider public interest 
in TSBs behaviour.  I agree  with Mr D that there is a public interest in businesses, including  
banks, complying with their tax obligations,  including any obligation  to deduct tax before 
making payments  to customers. But my role is to resolve the individual complaints brought  to 
me, Im not able to make decisions  that have a broader impact than that. Thats  why I 
suggested Mr D may want to raise with HMRC the general issue of whether TSBs cashback 
payments to customers should be made  net of tax. 
I thank Mr D for providing links to various articles hes found on the internet  about the tax 
treatment of incentive, reward and cashback payments made by banks. I did look at them  
and Im sorry I didnt acknowledge doing so in my provisional decision. But Im afraid I cant  
take them into account in resolving this complaint.  This is for the same reason as above - 
because Im satisfied TSB didnt  deduct  tax, I cant tell it to issue  a tax deduction statement. 
As Ive said previously, deciding what TSB should  have done  cant  make  a difference  to that.
Mr D has also provided a certificate of reward paid that he was given by another  bank. It 
shows the reward paid,  the gross  amount  and the tax deducted. He says this reward was 
paid in identical circumstances. I dont doubt  that Mr D believes the circumstances are 
identical. But I can only look at the facts of the individual  complaint before  me. So again, I 
cant take this into account. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D, but for the reasons  given in this decision and in my provisional 
decision, Im not going to tell TSB to provide Mr D with a tax deduction certificate. 
Poor customer service
In an email sent after my provisional decision, Mr D said he is also unhappy that I havent  
considered those parts of his complaint that concern poor customer  service by TSB in 
relation to his complaint to it because  I say its outside our remit. He says the requirement to 
treat customers fairly is a well-established  principle and something our service is able to 
consider. He says on this warped logic, individual issues  are effectively  ignored  once 
progressed as a formal complaint because that is not something  the ombudsman  can look 
at. He set out TSB failings as being:
Not sending written confirmation  of my complaint and how it would be handled.
Not sending a copy of their response.
Waiting for 90 minutes on hold when  calling the customer service  department  to 
enquire what was happening,  and then being  told to call back  the next day.
Receiving a response which  didn't  actually  address the complaint hed originally 
made.
He says that I consider none of that important or relevant. Mr D said similar things in his 
conversation with our senior manager.  
Im sorry  if I gave  Mr D the impression that his concerns about TSBs  poor handling of his 
complaint were not important. That wasnt my intention. I can see that in my provisional  
decision I did acknowledge that these issues mustve been frustrating for him, but I could 
have gone further in that. 
But Im afraid Im still of the view that I dont  have the power to consider  these  customer 
service issues.  I only have the power  given to me by our rules. These are contained in the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys Handbook in the chapter headed Dispute Resolution; 
Ref: DRN09167936Complaints (DISP rules). These  can be found at 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/3/
DISP 2.3.1 says I can consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission  by a firm in 
carrying on one of the activities set out in that rule. Complaint handling isnt one of those 
activities, so I dont  have  the power to consider complaints about how the complaint itself is 
dealt with. 
Mr D is right to say that that there  is a requirement  for businesses to treat customers fairly.  
Thats set out at Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses, also contained in the FCA 
Handbook. But Im afraid  that doesnt extend my powers. I can only take that principle into 
account where I have  the power  under our rules to consider  the complaint. And for the 
reasons given, I dont  have that power in relation to complaints about complaint handling. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0916793