K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited only made 
the buyback option (on their whole-of-life with critical illness cover policy)  available to him 
and not to her. It then unfairly quoted a higher price for Mrs M to take out a new policy  
compared with the buyback  price quoted for her husband.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 6 March  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Royal London disagreed with my view, and said:
It is true that the policy was issued to Mr and Mrs B as joint policyholders and the 
claim was paid to them jointly but I used the terms policyholder/owner and life 
assured interchangeably despite them being  defined separately in the documentation
Mr and Mrs B, as joint policy owners,  have the ability to request the buyback option 
for Mr B, but there has been no inference in any of the letters  or the policy provisions 
that the new cover would be on a joint life basis
The letter issued in September 2017 refers to Mr and Mrs B as policyholders not as 
lives assured. The reminder letter issued in October 2018 refers  only to Mr B as the 
life assured in respect of the buyback policy. Both of these are consistent with how 
the policy was set up and the option  as it was intended to be available
The option clause  within  the terms and conditions only refer to 'a life assured'  or 'the 
life assured' i.e. singular not plural  and so can only be taken to mean the person on 
whose life the claim occurred
It is therefore clear that the option  is only available in respect  of a single life assured 
and that life assured must be the one that has been diagnosed with the critical illness
One can only interpret  it differently by inserting different wording, which Mrs B has 
attempted to do by taking wording from a jargon buster on the Royal  London website 
totally unrelated to these  policies
At no point did Mr and Mrs B ask about the replacement policy option in any of their 
phone calls. They only referred  to the buyback option
It is therefore little surprise that the people they spoke to only gave  information  in 
respect of that option. It's unfortunate that in one of the calls it confirmed to Mrs B 
that she would also be able to take out the buyback even though  shed previously 
stated it was only for the first person who claimed
Compensation of £50 was paid and it has allowed Mrs B to exercise the replacement 
policy option even  though  that option  expired more than a year ago
Given Royal Londons response,  which arguably contained new evidence,  I forwarded this to 
Mr and Mrs B. They said:
The document dated August 2002  clearly shows both of them  as Life Assured, 
singular not plural. This refutes Royal London's stance  that, as their wording for the 
buyback is in the singular  and not the plural,  it clearly refers to only one person and 
not two
Their use of the Jargon Buster from the Royal London website may not refer to their 
policy, however it was used to show  how the company determine the use of the word 
life/lives assured; as no such definition was provided in our policy  document
Ref: DRN06027402However it was clear from the 2002  evidence that they were  both named against the 
singular wording Life Assured
Furthermore they were told in two phone conversations that they were both entitled 
to the buyback.  The first conversation on 14 September 2017 was to seek  clarity 
around the buyback as the previous phone handler had been unsure
During the second call on 5 October  2017  he was told, If you can just basically send 
us a letter, signed and dated  with your signatures on it, stating that you both want  to 
go ahead  with the option
Royal London also states that the letter in September  2017  refers to them as 
Policyholder(s) not as lives assured, however this letter  refers  to the phone 
conversation of 14 September in which its advisor confirmed that they were both 
entitled to the buyback  and gave no indication that she was only referring to a single 
person
Royal London states that there was no inference  in the letters  or policy document  
that the Buyback was on a joint life basis, however  there was no inference that it was 
not on a joint life basis, which it does on today's policies
If that was the case, then the policy should have clearly stated this. Also why address 
the letter in 2017  to both policyholders and not aim it at the Life Assured as it did in 
the letter in 2018?
It is Royal London that is using the terms Policyholder/Owner  and Life Assured 
interchangeably to their would-be  advantage
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Royal Londons arguments which largely reiterate its original reasons for 
rejecting the complaint. I do not agree with their analysis, largely for the reasons  I outlined in 
my provisional decision. 
I note it has not explained  why it has changed  its terms  recently  to spell out that only the 
person who suffers  the critical illness would be eligible for the buyback option. It has not said 
this was because  it accepts the previous terms were  unclear, failed to spell out what  it 
always intended or simply decided to change the criterion. In my view this recent  change  is a 
significant and indicates that the original terms did not limit the buyback option in the way 
Royal London either wanted  or has since chosen to do.
In my view, a fair and reasonable meaning of the terms  and conditions  Mr and Mrs B were 
given was that the buyback option  applied  to the policyholder  or holders. Mr and Mrs B were 
clearly joint policyholders, whether they were  jointly the Life Assured or each a Life Assured, 
and therefore  this buyback applied  to them jointly.
Royal London did not explicitly state that the buyback option didnt apply to both of them as 
joint policyholders,  and therefore  I dont  think it is entitled to make  this retrospective 
interpretation, especially  when this appears  to me to run counter to a common-sense  
interpretation of the clause. I also do not think it is consistent with the following definition:
Life assured: The person  who is insured  under this policy. If there  is more  than one life 
covered under this policy, as shown in the policy schedule, this definition covers all lives 
insured.
Ref: DRN06027403I acknowledge that Royal London wrote several letters to Mr B after this claim, implying or 
stating that the buyback option only applied to him. However, it is this interpretation of Mr 
and Mrs Bs policy terms which I dont accept. The fact that it wrote to Mr B as the policy  
holder does not mean he was in fact a or the policyholder in his right.  Indeed, I am fairly sure 
that if Mr B had unilaterally  written to Royal London  at any point  after the policy  began  
seeking (for example)  to cancel it or receive  any surrender value, it would have told him that 
this was a joint policy and it could not do anything without both joint holders instructions.
I still do not accept  Royal  Londons interpretation of the original terms and conditions. These 
spell out under the General Provisions (1) that the word You refers to the owner of the 
policy i.e. Mr and Mrs B. It then states that You would be entitled to the buyback option  of a 
life assured but it does not say this only applies to the life assured on which the claim is 
made. So in the case  of a joint policy I think it is reasonable to assume that a life assured 
refers to the life or lives assured on the policy. While Royal London  may not share my 
interpretation, I am satisfied that it is a fair and reasonable one in the absence of greater 
clarity or specificity. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and instruct The Royal  London  Mutual  Insurance  Society  Limited to 
offer Mr and Mrs B a joint buyback policy on the terms originally  outlined  i.e. on the basis  
that they were  jointly entitled to the buyback option. I also instruct it to pay them £200 for the 
undoubted trouble and upset this issued has caused  them. This is in addition to the £50 
already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  by 27 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06027404provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited refused to allow  
them to take out a new joint policy under the buyback option of their whole-of-life with critical illness 
policy.
background
Royal London  rejected the complaint. It said the buyback option - to repurchase a new policy without 
medical underwriting after a critical illness  claim  only applied to the named individual who had made 
the claim. In this case, Mr B.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld.
He recognised that the terms and conditions  did not refer to a specific individual, and that Mr and Mrs 
M felt there  was some  ambiguity in the reference to "the life assured". However, he didn't  agree that 
this was misleading or unclear. He thought the terms - under section 2.12 'Cover  Buyback Option' - 
when read in full, made clear  that the person exercising  this option must  have made a valid claim on 
the policy.
He accepted that Royal  London had given  incorrect information over the phone but felt its offer of £50 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree,  and said:
The terms and conditions  referring to the buyback option didn't  state that both lives assured 
could not exercise this option
Royal London are trying to place today's policy limitations on a policy  that was written 16 
years ago and which had no such  limitations at the time
As the policy was in joint names, it is clear - given  the definitions  that this meant they jointly 
had a valid claim on their policy  due to Mr Bs illness. It is only policies post-2002 which 
state that the person  who gets a critical illness  is the only one entitled to the buyback option
The investigator also stated that the policy  was only ever going to pay out on one claim for 
one named policyholder;  but this ignores  the fact that their policy paid out to both of them,  as 
jointly named on the policy
They  both paid the policy premiums and were jointly  named on the policy  including the 
buyback element; when the policy  was terminated due to the claim, it was ended for both of 
them and therefore the buyback should have been made available  to both as per the 
definition of life/lives  assured
Theyre also unhappy  that Mrs B wasn't offered the replacement cover option 12 months ago 
when she should have been, and felt this warranted significantly more compensation in itself
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I am satisfied  that this complaint should be upheld. In this, I agree entirely  with the arguments  set out 
by Mr and Mrs B in their recent detailed  response (which was supplied to Royal London).
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint policyholder; they were jointly the policyholder  with their lives assured, 
and they therefore made a joint claim which Royal  London paid to them.
Ref: DRN06027405I do not think  Royal Londons interpretation of the original terms and conditions is either fair or 
reasonable. If, as it argues,  it always  intended this buyback option to only apply  to the individual 
whose critical  illness resulted in the policy paying out, then it needed  to state this in clear and 
unequivocal terms. It did not do so.
I note that recent policies  state: The buyback benefit  will be for the life assured in respect  of whom 
the claim was made. This statement did not appear in Mr and Mrs Bs terms and condition.  Whether 
Royal London  has since realised that the original terms and conditions  did not spell out what it had 
intended, or decided to alter the buyback  terms, I do not believe it can make this retrospective 
qualification.
Finally, I think  its important to add that Royal Londons Head of Customer Servicing  and its Head of 
Operations, Claims and Underwriting, both wrote to Mr and Mrs B on separate occasions before  this 
dispute arose   offering them the opportunity to jointly  take up a buyback policy. If Royal London is 
claiming that it never intended to allow both policyholders to access this facility then I find it very 
surprising that two of its senior staff, with clear  and direct  responsibilities for this issue,  would  be 
unaware of Royal Londons interpretation of the pre-2002  terms and conditions.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society 
Limited to offer Mr and Mrs B a joint buyback policy  on the terms originally outlined. I also intend to 
instruct it to pay them £200  for the undoubted trouble and upset this issued has caused them. This is 
in addition to the £50 already paid.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0602740