K820x#14complaint
Mr E has raised a number  of complaints in respect of A J Bell Management  Limited (A J 
Bell).
background
Mr E took out a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in February  2003  with Sippdeal. A J 
Bell Management  Limited (A J Bell) says it was trading  as Sippdeal,  but Mr E disagrees. 
Since then Mr E has made a number of complaints  that Ill set out below.
In 2016 Mr E complained to A J Bell about the level of charges on his SIPP.  And he said 
hed been given unclear  information about  his crystallised and uncrystallised funds. 
Mr E complained again in 2016  as he was unable to retrieve a quote  to sell some shares 
held within  his SIPP. 
In 2017 Mr E complained that A J Bell had initialised a transfer  from another business that 
he had a pension  with without his permission,  the time it had taken  to provide information 
about crystallised and uncrystallised funds and a problem with retrieving  a quote to purchase  
shares via the A J Bell website.
On 31 July 2017 Mr E wrote to A J Bell with another complaint  (Complaint No5).  This was 
in relation to a number of issues. They were:
a.A J Bell hadnt responded to a request for his and his familys annual  contribution  
certificates for the tax year 2016/17. The request was made on 7 April 2017.
b.A J Bell hadnt responded to a request for the breakdown (on an A J Bell headed 
letter and not by email)  of the crystallised  and uncrystallised funds held in his 
SIPP. The request  was made on 7 April 2017.
c.that A J Bell had taken too long to comply with a subject access request  (SAR)  
made on 4 May 2017.
d.a repeat of the concern that A J Bell had tried to transfer another of his pensions  
without consent.
e.a repeat of the concerns about trading shares  via A J Bells  online portal.
f.about the nature of the contractual relationship between  Mr E and A J Bell.
And Mr E also complained with the time taken for A J Bell to provide a valuation  for the SIPP  
and the charges made on his ISA, also held with A J Bell.
 
A J Bell responded to Mr Es complaints and on 9 February 2018 it wrote  to Mr E offering to 
agree to waive any fees if he wished to transfer  his SIPP to another provider.
Unhappy with A J Bells  responses, Mr E referred  his complaint to this service.  
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who thought that we didnt have the 
power to consider all of this complaint. That was because parts of it werent referred within  
six months of A J Bells final responses. But they did think parts  of Mr Es complaint could be 
considered and they went on to do that.
Ref: DRN05104902Mr E didnt agree with what  our investigator said, so the complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision. 
In January 2019 I issued a first provisional decision on Mr Es complaint. In that decision I 
considered what  Mr E had complained about  and looked at which parts  of his complaint I 
had the power  to consider  and which parts  I didnt. I didnt  make any findings  whether A J 
Bell had done anything wrong  and, if it had, whether it needed to do anything to put things  
right.
A J Bell responded to say it had no further  comments to make  following my first provisional 
decision.
Mr E responded to my first provisional decision.  He said he didnt agree with some of what  I 
had said and asked  me to reconsider  my decision about which  parts of his complaint I said I 
didnt have the power to look into. Mr E said he was no longer asking me to consider the 
problem he had dealing  in some shares.
Having considered what Mr E had said I decided to issue a second provisional decision 
dealing with my final say on what I could consider and giving my initial thoughts  about  the 
substantive outcome of Mr Es complaint. And I gave  both Mr E and A J Bell the chance  to 
comment further before issuing a final decision.
In my second provisional decision  I confirmed the issues I had the power to consider, which  
were the same as the ones set out in my first provisional decision alongside one further 
issue.
And having considered all of the available evidence  and arguments I gave my provisional 
conclusions as follows:
A J Bell didnt respond to a request by Mr E for his annual contribution certificates 
for the tax year 2016/17  made on 7 April 2017
Mr E asked for contribution certificates to be sent and A J Bell said it did so on 4 May 
2017. He says these were  only received  after he complained again  on 1 August 
2017.
I dont know why Mr E didnt receive any certificates  if they were sent out on 4 May 
2017, but I dont  have  any reason to doubt A J Bell sent them. But in any event, 
updated certificates were  sent out later on. And A J Bell has now said it wont send 
out these types  of certificates anymore, rather the contributions can be seen online or 
in the annual paper statement sent.  I think this is something  A J Bell is entitled to do 
within its own commercial discretion.
Im satisfied Mr E received the certificates either in May or later on and now has the 
information he wanted. I cant see this has caused him any loss or other problems, so 
I make  no award for anything to do with the contribution certificates.
A J Bell took too long to comply with a SAR made  on 4 May 2017
Mr E made a SAR on 4 May 2017,  but A J Bell didnt  respond within  the set 
timescales. And he complained to the Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) 
about those failings  I understand that complaint was upheld. Mr E is concerned  
Ref: DRN05104903these breaches are systemic  and intentional  and would like compensation for the 
failure to provide disclosure on time.
A J Bell has accepted  it took too long and has refunded the £10 fee Mr E paid to get 
his personal information.
Mr E hasnt said what, if anything, is outstanding from his SAR. Nor has he said what  
effect the delay  in providing the information has had. In fact, the only complaint I 
have seen is that the rules werent  followed.  I understand that he feels strongly that 
as A J Bell took longer  than it should have  done in providing information 
compensation should be paid. 
I accept that breaching timescales set out for SARs is a serious matter and the ICO 
is able to fine businesses  that dont comply  with the rules  in place. But I cant  see 
Mr E has lost out or been caused the level of frustration that I think  requires A J Bell 
to pay any compensation.  So I make  no award  for this part of the complaint.
the contractual relationship between  Mr E and A J Bell isnt clear
Mr E says there is no evidence that A J Bell launched Sippdeal.co.uk in 2000  and 
he doesnt think A J Bell was involved with that business until 2007 at the earliest. 
Mr E is of the view that Sippdeal was owned by [Business  A] and not A J Bell.
All regulated financial businesses  have  to give information to the FCA that is 
recorded on its Financial  Services Register. Having looked at the register I can see 
A J Bell Management Limited (reference number: 211468) has been regulated since  
1 October 2002. And it is recorded  that Sippdeal Limited changed its name to A J 
Bell Management  Limited on 11 April 2007.  
And I have  been  able to access a version  of Sippdeals website from 18 January 
2006, so around  three years after Mr E opened his SIPP. There  is a section on the 
website called About  Us and it says:
Sippdeal Limited  is part of the A J Bell Group one of the UKs largest and 
fastest growing SIPP  administrators. Founded  in 1995, we have built our 
reputation on quality administration complemented by innovative and 
competitive product offerings  through a variety of delivery channels.
The Group specialise  in the provision of actuarial, trustee and administration 
services for Self Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) and Small Self 
Administered Schemes  (SSASs). The combined  group  has in excess of £2bn 
in assets under its trusteeship.  Staff numbers now exceed 130.
We launched the UKs first online SIPP in October 2000, the Sippdeal e-sipp,  
and are now acknowledged as one of the market leaders in the provision of 
online low cost SIPPs. We also provide the back office SIPP  administration  
facilities for a number of financial  institutions.  
Sippdeal Trustees  Limited is the Trustee  and Administrator of the Sippdeal e-
sipp and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sippdeal Limited. Sippdeal Trustees  
Limited has delegated the day-to-day  management and running of the 
scheme to Sippdeal Limited. 
Ref: DRN05104904Sippdeal Limited  is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services 
Authority. Sippdeal Trustees Limited does not conduct any regulated activities 
and is, therefore,  not regulated.
[Business A] is the provider and runs the individual client deposit account 
facilities for the Sippdeal e-sipp. 
[Business B] provides  the online share  dealing  and settlement service.  
[Business B] were established  in 1919, are Members of the London Stock  
Exchange and are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services  
Authority.
Mr E is correct  that in the original application  it says:
Sippdeal Trustee  Limited agrees to administer  the Sippdeal e-sipp  on behalf 
of the Provider,  [Business A].
Often different  businesses  provide  different services  in the running of a SIPP.  So one 
business might offer the actual scheme  administration (the day to day running of the 
SIPP), one business might offer investment services (the platform through which 
investments held in the SIPP are bought and sold), one business might offer banking 
services (the bank  that holds the SIPPs deposits)  and one business might act as the 
scheme trustee (the legal  owner of the assets  within the SIPP,  held on trust on behalf  
of the consumer).
Here [Business A] provided the banking services. But the actual  SIPP administration  
was done by Sippdeal  Limited,  so that was the business that managed  the day to 
day running of the SIPP  and was the business  that could charge a fee for doing so. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  that [Business A] ever owned (in whole  or in part) 
Sippdeal.
In conclusion, I am of no doubt that Sippdeal Limited and A J Bell Management  
Limited are the same business.  So Mr Es agreement with A J Bell Management 
Limited was the same  agreement he had with Sippdeal Limited.
the level of charges on Mr Es SIPP
Mr E has complained about two issues. First, he says A J Bell isnt entitled  to charge 
anything as it doesnt have a valid agreement  with him. For the reasons set out 
above, I disagree. And I think  Mr E thought Sippdeal was entitled to deduct charges 
for the management  of his SIPP, so it follows I think he was aware charges would be 
made for this.
Secondly, Mr E has complained, in general terms, that the charges  are too high.  He 
hasnt pointed to any in particular that he says are unfair, so Ive looked at this in 
general terms.
A J Bell are entitled to make charges for the running of Mr Es SIPP, but those 
charges have to be clearly set out before A J Bell can take them. A J Bell has been 
able to set out the charges in place between early  2007 and April 2017.  Im not 
surprised it wasnt able to provide all charges from the time Mr E opened  his SIPP  as 
Ref: DRN05104905theres no requirement for it to hold records indefinitely and normally  a consumer is 
only able to complain  about charges in the previous six years.
A J Bells charges are clearly set out on its website. And I think in this case that is 
sufficient  Mr E originally took out an e-SIPP,  so an online based product. I dont 
think it would  be unreasonable to expect  its customers to check the charges online.
I think the charges  A J Bell has set out seem in line with similar levels  of charges 
made by other SIPP administrators.  On balance, I cant  see that Mr E has been 
treated unfairly  in being charged  for the administration of his pension.
A J Bell didnt send  information about the valuation of Mr Es crystallised and 
uncrystallised funds  on 3 May 2017  as it said it would and that it wasnt  sent in the 
correct format
On 23 May 2017, A J Bell wrote to Mr E apologising that it had not responded to a 
query raised  about  the crystallised and uncrystallised funds. It said a breakdown was 
provided on 3 May 2017 and it offered £50 for the delays. As I set out above,  this part 
of the complaint cannot be considered further  as it was not referred  to this service  in 
time.
Mr E said when bringing Complaint No5 that information was provided on 26 June 
2017. But he contacted A J Bell again  to complain about the delays and asked for the 
information to be sent by post, not email, and on A J Bell headed paper. He also 
asked for a calculation showing how the breakdown  between the crystallised and 
uncrystallised funds  was reached.
A J Bell said it had mistakenly  sent the fund values to the wrong email address, but it 
hadnt been delivered to anyone else, so I dont think Mr Es personal information has 
been shared with anyone  it shouldnt have been.  And Im satisfied Mr E has the 
information he wanted.
Ive also thought about the format of the information. Theres  nothing in the FCAs 
rules setting out how this type of information needs  to be communicated  with a 
customer. And I cant see that Mr E told A J Bell he needed the valuations on headed 
paper for any specific reason. So I dont think A J Bell needs to do anything further or 
pay any compensation for the mistake  in sending the information to the incorrect 
email address.
A J Bell has offered to transfer all of his accounts  and pension  holdings to another  
provider free of charge, waiving its normal fees of £2,275. As Ive set out above, I 
dont think A J Bell has done  anything that means  it needs to pay compensation. And 
for the same reason  I dont think it needs to waive any of its normal  fees, so I wont  
direct it to do so. It is for Mr E to decide whether he wishes to accept this offer.
A J Bell responded to my second provisional decision. It agreed  with what  Id said and it 
provided some more information about  the relationship between Sippdeal and A J Bell.
Mr E also responded.  He said he didnt think I had considered all of the facts and evidence 
and I had predetermined the complaint. Although Mr E said he didnt intend to make any 
further comments or observations on the complaint, he did set out at some length why he 
disagreed with both of my provisional  decisions.  I have carefully read what  Mr E has said in 
Ref: DRN05104906his response,  as well as his comments made  after the investigators view and my first 
provisional decision.
my findings
In my provisional decisions I set out which parts of this complaint I have the power to 
consider and which parts I dont. Having reviewed  Mr Es comments I am satisfied I have the 
power to consider the following issues only:
a.A J Bell hadnt responded to Mr Es request for his annual contribution certificates  
for the tax year 2016/17  made on 7 April 2017
b.that A J Bell had taken too long to comply with a SAR made on 4 May 2017
c.that the contractual relationship between Mr E and A J Bell isnt clear
d.the level of charges  on Mr Es SIPP.
e.A J Bell didnt send  information about the valuation of Mr Es crystallised and 
uncrystallised funds  on 3 May 2017  as it said it would and that it wasnt  sent in 
the correct format.
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the FCA Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having thought about everything again,  I still dont  think  A J Bell needs to do anything  further  
to resolve this complaint. This is for the same reasons as set out in the extract  of my second  
provisional decision detailed above. Mr E has raised some further concerns that I will deal 
with below.
Mr E confirmed that he needed  his contribution certificates so he could make  appropriate 
claims for tax relief  from HMRC. So he says A J Bell has a legal obligation to supply  these 
promptly. But Mr E still hasnt  said that he was actually caused any loss or other problems by 
any delay in him receiving  the actual certificates he asked  for  I note Mr E hasnt said these 
certificates are still outstanding. And, as I set out in my second  provisional decision, A J Bell 
will still provide information to Mr E that he needs showing his pension  contributions.  So 
even if I thought A J Bell had done something  wrong, I wouldnt have said it needed  to pay 
any compensation as I cant  see Mr E has lost out.
Ref: DRN05104907Mr E has said I failed  to properly deal with his concern about the contractual  relationship 
between him and A J Bell. He points out that his original contract with Sippdeal doesnt 
mention A J Bell and he think A J Bell bought Sippdeal from Business A in around 2007. As 
he says A J Bell wasnt a party to the original contact, he still has concerns that he doesnt 
have a valid agreement  with A J Bell.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I accepted that A J Bell Management Limited and 
Sippdeal were the same business   and having reviewed what I said I havent changed my 
mind. But additionally Ive seen the relevant  records filed at Companies House under 
company number 03948391. It shows that Sippdeal  Limited changed its name to A J Bell 
Management Limited on 30 March 2007. And Ive seen that people appointed as directors of 
Sippdeal in 2000, so before Mr E took out his SIPP, were already directors of companied 
related to A J Bell. 
Mr E hasnt been able to provide any information to show that Business A ever owned,  in 
whole or in part, any stake  in Sippdeal. Based  on the evidence available  to me, I find that 
Sippdeal Limited  and A J Bell Management  Limited are the same  entity.
Mr E is concerned that A J Bells  failure  to comply with a SAR should be taken more 
seriously. He thinks the breach could be an early  warning  sign of a culture  within A J Bell 
which could be indicative of more  serious  financial irregularities. 
Our service was set up to look into individual complaints to determine what, if anything, has 
gone wrong and what  the effect of that is on a consumer. I noted that he has already 
referred a complaint to the ICO about  A J Bells failure to comply with the SAR. But if he has 
any wider concerns with A J Bells internal procedures he would need to raise  that with the 
regulator, the FCA. 
In my second provisional decision  I acknowledged that breaching  the timescales for 
complying with a SAR is a serious matter. But I hadnt seen what  effect,  if any, there was on 
Mr E having  to wait longer than he should  have done to get the information he asked for. 
And in response  to my second  provisional decision,  Mr E hasnt set out why he thinks  A J 
Bell needs  to pay compensation for the failings. So I make no award  for this.
I have also considered whether I think A J Bell needs to pay fair compensation to Mr E due 
to any financial loss, pain and suffering, damage  to reputation or distress  or inconvenience 
(DISP 3.7.2 R). I do understand  that Mr E feels A J Bell has caused  him some distress and 
inconvenience over what he thinks to be systemic intransigent conduct.
I have carefully considered whether  A J Bell has done anything that requires compensation 
to be paid. Mr E has asked it for large amounts of information, but he hasnt fully set out his 
reasons for needing it. Without knowing Mr Es reasons for requesting  all this information, I 
cannot easily estimate what, if any, distress has been caused by him not receiving  it. He has 
raised a number of separate complaints. And, apart  from his complaint that A J Bell has 
charged high fees on his SIPP, I cant see he complained  that hes lost out as a result  of 
anything he said A J Bell had done. Although I accept  A J Bell didnt respond to Mr Es SAR 
in time, I think it has otherwise acted reasonably toward Mr E throughout all of his 
complaints. Overall, I dont think it would  be fair to tell A J Bell to pay any compensation.
Ref: DRN05104908my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against  A J Bell Management Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0510490