K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about two vehicles that he hired from Lex Autolease Ltd under two hire 
agreements. He says the vehicles that were supplied  by Lex Autolease Ltd did not meet the 
specifications he had requested. He says both vehicles were misrepresented  to him. And, he 
says Lex Autolease Ltd has refused  to unwind the hire agreements  without charge.
background
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint and my initial findings were  set out in my 
second provisional decision of 5 December  2019.  A copy of that provisional decision  is 
attached here and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold  this complaint. I also set 
out why I was minded to say that I was unable to consider Mr Ms complaint that the vehicles 
were misrepresented  to him against Lex. I invited further comments from both parties, before 
I would reconsider the complaint and issue my final decision. Mr M responded via his 
solicitor to say he had no further  comments.  Lex did not respond to the provisional decision 
by the deadline I set. And to date I have not seen  any further submissions from them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I still consider my provisional findings to 
be fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances. Neither party has added  anything 
which gives me cause  to change these. Therefore, my final decision is the same,  for the 
reasons as set out in the attached provisional  decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about  Lex Autolease Ltd in that he 
complains Lex Autolease Ltd has refused  to unwind the hire agreements without charge. 
And, I find we are not able to consider Mr Ms complaint about  the misrepresentation about  
the air conditioning against Lex Autolease Ltd.
Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Dan Picken
Ombudsman
second provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M complains about  two vehicles that he hired from Lex under two hire agreements. He
says the vehicles that were supplied by Lex did not meet the specifications he had
requested. He says both vehicles were misrepresented to him. And, he says Lex has
refused to unwind  the hire agreements without charge.
background
Mr M approached a credit  broker (who Ill call F) in 2017 as he was interested  in leasing two
vehicles. Mr M says that it was essential to him that both vehicles had air conditioning. He
Ref: DRN01215802says F represented to him that the vehicles would  be supplied with air conditioning as
standard and that they would also be supplied with alloy wheels. Mr M then entered  into two
consumer hire agreements with Lex for these vehicles.
When Mr M received  the vehicles, he discovered that neither was supplied with the air
conditioning or alloy wheels as he had expected. So, Mr M complained  to F who said,  via
their solicitors, that they did verbally  confirm to Mr M that the vehicles  came with air
conditioning fitted as standard, but that this was in fact incorrect  and an error on their part. At
first F said Mr M could return the vehicles  and cancel  the hire agreements with Lex. But F
then informed  Mr M that Lex wouldnt unwind the hire agreements  without charge.
Mr M complained to Lex who said in response that the vehicle order  forms didnt  state that
the vehicles came  with air conditioning. Lex told Mr M that they werent liable for any
representations made by F about the vehicles so they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M
then complained to our service about Lex.
Mr M said to us in his initial submissions, via his solicitor, that:
F told him that the vehicles came with air conditioning  and alloy wheels as
standard;
stipulation of a feature  that was either expressly said or generally would  be
understood to be standard wouldnt reasonably be expected  to be stated on the
order form;
a consumer would reasonably expect the vehicles to be supplied with standard
features irrespective of whether these are stated on the order form.
Mr M also said that Lex was incorrect in saying that they werent liable for what F
represented about the vehicles. He mentioned that Fs website says that they are authorised
associates of Lex. So, F could only have been acting on behalf of Lex when they were
dealing with Mr M.
Mr M noted that Lexs terms under the hire agreements  purported to exclude F being
deemed an agent of Lex and from any liability for misrepresentations  made  by F. But he said
that these  terms  were  void by virtue  of section 56(3) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA). Mr M also said that Lex had sent him inaccurate  default  notices which  he wanted
removed from his credit file.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ms complaint  about Lex but didnt uphold  it. Mr M
didnt agree  and said:
the investigator had incorrectly said that section 56 of the CCA  doesnt apply to
hire agreements;
Lex was the negotiator in reference to this part of the CCA;
F must have been acting, and did act, as an agent of Lex which made  Lexs terms
excluding liability for Fs representations void;
negotiations were conducted by F as agents of Lex and were effectively  therefore
conducted by Lex themselves which makes them liable  for the negligent
misrepresentations of F.
As our investigator wasnt able to resolve  Mr Ms complaint, it has been passed to me for
review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01215803Mr M, via his solicitor, has raised  several  arguments which he believes  means  that his
complaint against Lex should succeed. Ill deal with each of these  in turn.
Vehicle order  forms  and assumption of what is standard
It seems that all parties accept that air conditioning and alloy wheels  werent listed on either
order form for these vehicles. Ive seen the order form for both vehicles alongside  both hire
agreements and note that a number  of additional specifications were  listed,  such  as roof rails
and body colour bumpers. Neither the agreements  nor the order forms had air conditioning
or alloy wheels added to these lists. So, I dont think it was expressly and specifically stated
in the contractual documentation that air conditioning  or alloy wheels were to be included.
Mr M, in his initial submissions, asserted that air conditioning would generally be understood
to be a standard feature  of these vehicles  and that a consumer would reasonably  expect this
to be included  even  where these arent listed on the order forms.
My first provisional decision  dealt with this point. I said that I didnt agree  with this. I noted
that many vehicles are provided to consumers without features such as air conditioning. And
I looked  at the brochure on the manufacturers website  for these vehicles  and noted that it
said that air conditioning, and indeed  alloy wheels, are included as optional  extras  that
consumers could choose to add. I also noted that the brochure said that air conditioning
came as standard on other vehicle models  but not the models Mr M hired. So, I didnt
agree with Mr M that it was reasonable to expect air conditioning to be a standard feature of
the vehicles he hired from Lex.
Mr M felt that my provisional  finding  on this point was irrelevant as he had been told that air
conditioning came  fitted on these vehicles as standard. I had dealt with the point in my
provisional findings  because it formed part of the initial  submissions made  to us by Mr M.
However, Mr M clearly  feels the more pertinent point is that he was told that air conditioning
came as standard.
The representations made by F
So, I turn now to the issue  of whether  or not Lex can be held responsible for the
representations made by F that both vehicles would come with air conditioning fitted as
standard. This is important  as F accepts  that they did tell Mr M, in error, that the vehicles
would come with air conditioning as a standard feature. And, Mr M has said it was essential
to him that both vehicles came with air conditioning, so, in effect, Mr M is asserting he would
not have entered into either hire agreement on the terms offered had the true position been
made clear.
Lex however  does not accept they can be held liable for what F said to Mr M because  they
say F was not, nor were they acting, as their agent.
So, I need to consider whether F was in fact acting as Lexs agent when making the
representations about the vehicles to Mr M. I will look at the applicable  considerations in
turn.
Section 56 of the CCA
Mr M has said that the relevant provisions  of section 56 of the CCA (section 56) apply
because F was acting  as the agent of Lex.
Section 56 provides as follows:
56 Antecedent negotiations.
Ref: DRN01215804(1) In this Act antecedent negotiations   means any negotiations with the debtor  or hirer
(a) conducted by the creditor or owner  in relation to the making of any regulated
agreement, or
(b) conducted by a credit-broker in relation  to goods  sold or proposed to be sold by the
credit-broker to the creditor  before forming the subject-matter  of a debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement within section 12(a),  or
(c) conducted by the supplier  in relation to a transaction financed  or proposed to be
financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement within section 12(b) or (c),
and negotiator   means the person by whom negotiations are so conducted with the debtor or
hirer.
(2) Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall be
deemed to be conducted by the negotiator in the capacity of agent  of the creditor as well as in
his actual capacity.
(3) An agreement is void if, and to the extent that, it purports in relation to an actual or
prospective regulated  agreement 
(a) to provide that a person  acting as, or on behalf of, a negotiator is to be treated as the
agent of the debtor or hirer,  or
(b) to relieve a person  from liability for acts or omissions  of any person acting as, or on
behalf of, a negotiator.
(4) For the purposes of this Act, antecedent negotiations shall be taken to begin when the
negotiator and the debtor or hirer first enter into communication (including communication by
advertisement), and to include any representations made by the negotiator to the debtor or
hirer and any other dealings between them
Mr M asserts that section 56(1)(a)  clearly indicates that the section does apply to hire
agreements. It is correct that section  56(1)(a) applies to antecedent negotiations between  a
hirer and owner  in relation to the making of any regulated  agreement,  so this provision  would
apply where Lex, as owner, conducted the antecedent negotiations with Mr M. However,
here it was F, as a credit  broker, who carried  out the negotiations with Mr M, and not Lex.
And, section 56(1)(b)  applies only to sale-of-goods transactions (see section 12(a) CCA)  and
therefore does not apply to hire agreements.
So, in the circumstances, section 56(1)(b)  does not apply  to deem  that F was acting in the
capacity of Lexs agent  when conducting the antecedent negotiations with Mr M before he
entered into the hire agreements with Lex. However, Mr M assets that F were  acting as
agents of Lex in conducting  the negotiations  and this means section 56(1)(a)  applies. Im not
sure I understand  Mr Ms submission on why it would  be helpful for section 56(1)(a) to be
applicable if F were already  the common law agents of Lex. However, I have carefully
considered whether F were acting as Lexs  agents under common law principles of agency.
Were F agents of Lex under common law principles  of agency?
Mr M says that Fs website sets out that F are authorised associates of Lex. And, Mr M
says that F were  permitted  to access Lexs own systems in the course of setting up the
hire agreements. He says this demonstrates that F were  acting as agents of Lex and this
means Lex are responsible  for the acts or omissions effected by F.
Lex has said it did not authorise F to act as its agent and F wasnt acting as its agent
when it conducted negotiations with Mr M. So, Lex says they cant  be held liable for Fs
misrepresentations about  the vehicles. In other words, Lex says it isnt liable for what F has
done in the course of acting as a credit broker in this transaction with Mr M.
Ive considered whether  F had Lexs actual authority to conduct credit broking activities
on its behalf.  Under  common  law principles of agency, an agent  is said to have actual
Ref: DRN01215805authority when what it does is authorised by its principal, whether expressly  or impliedly. In
either case, a finding of actual  authority  reflects an agreement between the parties.
Ive considered whether  there was any agreement between F and Lex for F to act as Lexs
agent and, if so, whether the activity that F carried out in Mr Ms case  came within  the
activities Lex had agreed F could carry out on its behalf. I have seen no evidence  of any
agreement existing between  Lex and F in which Lex gave F authority to act as its legal agent
in any capacity. In fact, the hire agreements Mr M entered into with Lex contain a clause that
expressly sets out that any dealer involved in this transaction is not our legal agent. This is a
strong indication that dealers are not to be considered  Lexs agents.
I dont think the fact that Fs website sets out that F is an authorised associate  of Lex is
enough to find that Lex had agreed to permit  F to act as their agent. In my view, the wording
simply indicates that the two businesses  have a working  relationship, and in the
circumstances I give more  weight to the clause in the hire agreements  which  sets out that
dealers should not be construed to be Lexs legal  agents.  I think this gives a clear  statement
of the relationship that Lex intended to have with dealers (including with F). So, on balance, I
think it is more  likely  than not that Lex did not give its authority for F to act as its agent  in
conducting the activity of credit broking.
Ive also considered whether  F had apparent authority to carry  out the activities it did on
behalf of Lex. Under common law principles of agency,  the essence of apparent authority is
not concerned  with what  was actually  agreed between the parties, but rather, how the
relationship between  those parties appeared to third parties.
This type of authority was described  by Lord Denning in Hely-Hutchinson v Brayhead
Limited [1968] 1 QB 549 (at 583):
Ostensible  or apparent authority is the authority of an agent as it appears to others.
It often coincides with actual authority. Thus,  when  the board appoint  one of their
number to be managing director, they invest him not only with implied authority, but
also with ostensible authority to do all such things as fall within the usual  scope of
that office. Other people who see him acting as managing  director are entitled to
assume that he has the usual authority of a managing director. But sometimes
ostensible authority  exceeds actual authority.  For instance, when the board appoint
the managing  director, they may expressly  limit his authority by saying  he is not to
order goods worth more  than £500 without  the sanction of the board. In that case his
actual authority is subject to the £500 limitation,  but his ostensible authority includes
all the usual authority of a managing director. The company is bound  by his ostensible
authority in his dealings with those who do not know of the limitation. He may himself do the
"holding-out." Thus, if he orders goods worth £1,000 and signs himself "Managing Director
for and on behalf of the company," the company is bound to the other party who does not
know of the £500 limitation. (original  emphasis)
So, where  a person, by words or conduct,  represents or permits  it to be represented  that an
agent has authority to act on his behalf, he is bound  by the acts of that agent with respect to
anyone dealing with the agent on the faith of any such representation,  to the same extent as
if the agent  had the authority  that the agent was represented to have,  even if the agent had
no such actual authority.
Ive considered whether  Lex either  knowingly  or even unwittingly  led Mr M to believe
that F was authorised  to act on its behalf in relation  to the activity  of credit  broking, and that
Mr M relied  on this representation. Mr M says that Fs website noted  they were authorised
associates of Lex. But I do not think that a general statement on Fs website stating they are
authorised associates  is enough to say that Lex had permitted it to be represented  that F
had authority to act on their behalf as a legal  agent.
Mr M has also said that F were able to access  and enter data on to Lexs systems  and
Ref: DRN01215806provided him with the contract  to sign. So, he feels that F werent just acting as credit
brokers with limited authority. Mr M thinks this shows that F were the legal agents of Lex.
I dont think being able to input data into Lexs system, or providing the proposed agreement
for Mr M to sign, is enough for me to say that F acted with actual or apparent authority on
behalf of Lex. Its not uncommon for credit brokers to present proposed finance agreements
for customers to sign.  Its possible that the information given by Mr M to F could simply have
been submitted to Lex via F with Lex then agreeing to provide the finance (and presenting
the documentation for that back  to F for Mr M to sign). Lex themselves says this is what
happened. And I havent seen any evidence  to persuade me that this isnt the case or that F
for example  made the decision to grant credit to Mr M on behalf of Lex.
So, although  F could access Lexs systems, Lex has said this was purely to establish what
potential deals and arrangements were  available  for Mr M in the same way that F could look
at the systems  of the other businesses mentioned on Fs website.
In summary, I find that although F are described  on its website as an authorised associate
of Lex, on balance, this is not enough in the circumstances for me to find that F were in fact
a legal agent  of Lex. The hire agreements Mr M entered into with Lex stated that dealers
were not to be construed as their legal agents, and I think this is a clear  statement of the
relationship between  Lex and F and I have seen no other evidence to persuade me
otherwise. I think the hire agreements should  have  made the position  clear  to Mr M.
Having taken  all the evidence and submissions into account, my provisional decision is that I
am unable  to hold Lex responsible for the misrepresentations made by F about  the vehicles
hired to Mr M. This is because  I find that in the circumstances, F were not acting as agents
of Lex when they conducted  the negotiations  with Mr M. To be clear, this means I am not
able to consider this part of Mr Ms complaint  against Lex.
The restriction  of liability clause
As I mentioned above,  the terms and conditions that formed part of both hire agreements Mr
M entered  into with Lex contained a clause entitled Restriction of our liability, and it states
the following [under section 5]:
(d) Any dealer, operator, broker or manufacturer (even if described as an agent) who has been
involved in this transaction is not our legal agent, and we are not responsible for anything they
have said, done or not done unless we have specifically authorised it in writing or unless the law
otherwise makes that person our legal  agent.
Mr M asserts that these clauses which purport to exclude  F from, he says, being an
agent of Lex and attempts  to restrict Lexs liability for any representations made by F, are
void by way of section  56(3)  of the CCA.
I note that the Restriction of our liability clauses explicitly sets out the exception of unless
the law otherwise makes that person  our legal agent. So, the agreements have not tried to
exclude agency where there  is such a relationship under the law. I considered  above
whether F was in fact acting as Lexs agent  under common law principles of agency,  but
ultimately conclude they were not. So, the restriction of liability clause  does not come into
play and neither does section 56(3).
FCA authorisation
Mr M asserted in his reply  to my first provisional decision that our investigator said that F
werent FCA authorised.  This isnt in fact correct.  F were  at the time of this transaction FCA
authorised and indeed have been since. Their permissions granted by the FCA extended to
credit broking, which was the regulated  activity they conducted  when arranging the hire
Ref: DRN01215807agreements for Mr M. So, I dont  agree that Mr M entered into a regulated agreement  via an
unregulated party. Im sorry if what our investigator said caused confusion  on this point.
Summary and conclusion
Having taken  all the evidence and submissions into account, my current  decision is that Lex
is not responsible  for the misrepresentations made by F about the vehicles hired to Mr M.
This is because I find that in the circumstances, F were not acting as agents of Lex when
they conducted  the negotiations  with Mr M. This means I am unable to consider this part of
Mr Ms complaint against Lex. And, as Lex supplied the hire vehicles as per the terms of the
hire agreements, I do not think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  for it to be
required to unwind the hire agreements without charge.
I also note that Mr M has said that Lex should  remove the default notices from his credit  file.
However, I dont find that Lex acted unreasonably in recording  information about non-payment of the 
hire agreements with the relevant credit reference agencies.  I have seen no
evidence that the information is inaccurate. And, because the issue clearly stems  from Fs
misrepresentations that I do not find Lex responsible  for, I cant say that Lex should now
remove what  they have recorded.
I also note that Mr M has mentioned that, if I maintained the same position  as I had done in
my provisional  decision, Lex should not be permitted to apply interest to as per the hire
agreements whilst  Mr Ms complaint has been with our service. However, I see no reason
currently for me to direct Lex to waive  any interest if, as it appears they have done, they
have applied  the interest in line with the contractual rate shown in the hire agreements.
Although we have been looking into Mr Ms complaint, his liability  to Lex remains unaffected
by this.
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently minded not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint against
Lex in relation  to their decision not to unwind the hire agreements  they entered  into with Mr
M without charge. And, as I have found that F were  not acting as agents for Lex, I am unable
to hold Lex responsible for what  he was told by F before entering into the contracts with Lex.
This means  I am not able to look at this part of Mr Ms complaint against Lex.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint about Lex in that he
complains Lex has refused  to unwind the hire agreements  without charge. And, I find we are
not able to consider Mr Ms complaint about the misrepresentation about the air conditioning
against Lex.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0121580