K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained on behalf of Mrs G about  the way Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  
Limited dealt with a claim for an escape  of water under her home insurance policy.
background
In January 2019 Mr G made a claim to Lloyds on behalf of his mother. He was abroad at this 
time. He explained that his mother was unable to deal with the claim herself for health 
reasons. He asked  Lloyds  to communicate only with him about the claim.
Lloyds appointed a contractor to manage the claim.  The contractor visited Mrs Gs home to 
inspect the damage  on 25 January 2019. Mr G phoned Lloyds the next working day to 
enquire about progress. Lloyds said it was waiting for its contractors report.
On 6 February 2019 the contractor raised a concern that there might be asbestos at the 
property. It arranged for a test to be carried out. On 12 February the test came back negative 
and so work could  begin. 
Mr G contacted Lloyds  again on 12 February for an update.  By that time Lloyds  hadnt  been 
told about the results  of the asbestos test. Mr G complained about the lack of 
communication. 
Later Mr G was unhappy because Lloyds wrote  to him care of Mrs G to her home  address. 
He made  a further complaint after Lloyds  contractor called at Mrs Gs home to arrange a 
date for the repairs to start. Lloyds apologised for its failings. It paid a total of £250 in 
compensation and sent flowers to Mrs G. 
The repairs  were finished by the end of March 2019.
Mr G brought Mrs Gs complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  it. She thought  
Lloyds had paid a reasonable amount of compensation for its poor service.
As Mr G didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G is also unhappy with the service Mrs G had from the provider  of her home emergency 
cover. I confirm that in this decision I am only looking at how Lloyds handled Mrs Gs claim.
The only issue I need to consider in this decision is the amount of compensation Lloyds 
should pay Mrs G for the shortcomings in its service to her.
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. But when this service  considers  how much  compensation to award, its 
looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its policy holder above and 
beyond that which wed normally  expect to see associated with a claim of this type.
Ref: DRN07211652I can understand Mr Gs concern that he wasnt told what was going  with his mothers claim 
when he was abroad and hed previously  made  Lloyds aware of his mothers  vulnerability. 
But having  looked at a timeline of the claim,  I can see that there  were  no unnecessary 
delays. Clearly it was sensible to put the repairs on hold for a short time pending the result  of 
the asbestos test.
I appreciate that Lloyds  didnt mean  to overlook  Mr Gs instructions about communicating  
only with him. But I can understand Mrs Gs distress that due to oversights on Lloyds part a 
letter about  the claim was sent to her address and even worse  that Lloyds contractor turned 
up on her doorstep  unannounced to discuss the works with her. That must have been quite 
alarming for a vulnerable elderly lady. To its credit though  Lloyds did realise the harm  it had 
done and took immediate  steps to prevent a further breach.
Its only fair for me to recognise  that Lloyds has acknowledged where it was at fault and 
compensated Mrs G. Having taken all the circumstances into account and the impact the 
failings had on Mrs G I think that compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable. I appreciate  
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr G but Ive thought about this services  
approach to awards made in similar  circumstances and I dont think  I can fairly award any 
more. If this complaint  had come before me without  any offer of compensation having 
already been made, its very unlikely, having  taken all the circumstances into account, that 
Id have awarded more  than £250.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17  May 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0721165