K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains the incorrect figures  are quoted on his finance  agreement for a car he 
acquired through a conditional sale agreement financed by Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc. 
Therefore, Mr C complains there  has been a misrepresentation and a breach of contract.
Mr C also complains that affordability checks werent carried  out at the time of applying  for 
the finance.
Mr Cs representative made most  of the submissions in this complaint on Mr Cs behalf, but 
for simplicity,  I refer to Mr C throughout.
 
background
In April 2013, Mr C acquired  a new car through a dealership Ill refer to as B. Mr C says the 
figures on the finance agreement provided by Santander are different to the figures on the 
sales invoice provided by B therefore,  the finance  agreement is inaccurate.  
Mr C says that because  of this error, theres been a breach  of contract and a 
misrepresentation which he says makes  the finance  agreement unenforceable.  Mr C also 
says that Santander didnt  carry out the correct affordability checks at the point of sale and 
that Mr C didnt provide  any income  and expenditure information  at the time. 
As a result, Mr C has asked for the agreement to be unwound, a refund  of his deposit  and all 
monthly payments.  Mr C has also said he will return  the car as soon as his complaint has 
been resolved.
Santander said the sales figures  displayed  on the finance agreement  were correct. 
Therefore, they didnt  think the agreement was void as Mr C says.  Santander  also said Mr 
Cs finance was automatically accepted and due to certain personal  information they had for 
Mr C at the time, there  was no reason to do further affordability checks.
Our case handler looked into Mr Cs concerns. She said upon looking at the figures quoted  
on Bs sales invoice  and those on the finance  agreement, she didnt  agree  the figures on the 
agreement were incorrect. She acknowledged  there was a difference  of £1.12 in the interest 
payable with Mr Cs calculations and the figure on the agreement. But she said she was 
satisfied by the calculations sent over by Santander.  Our case  handler  also thought the 
checks carried out by Santander were proportionate  and that Santander made a fair 
assessment of Mr Cs ability to repay what he borrowed.
Mr C didnt agree. He remained of the opinion that the finance agreement  included the 
incorrect figures and that because  Santander didnt carry out an income and expenditure 
with Mr C, theres been a breach of the FCA rules. So the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Cs comment that the finance  agreement is unenforceable because he believes the 
figures on it are inaccurate. Its not my role to decide  enforceability here. This would be for 
Ref: DRN04875692the courts to consider, so I wont be commenting  on this part of Mr Cs complaint. Its my role 
to decide whether there has been a breach of contract and a misrepresentation by 
Santander. And I will take into consideration the relevant law and good  practice  when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable. For clarity, Ive considered  Mr Cs two complaint points 
under separate headings. 
Was the finance agreement misrepresented? And was there a breach of contract?
Mr C says Bs sales invoice shows the following figures:
-sale price  of £26,503.00
-part exchange with the value of £20,005.00 (with  no hire purchase settlement)
-Deposit of £1,000 (added to the part exchange  figure shows a total deposit of 
£21,005.00)
-Leaving a borrowing  of £10,000.
Mr C says the finance agreement shows the following figures  which he says are incorrect:
-deposit of £16,503.00
-interest amount  of £1,217.12
Ive looked at both the finance agreement and Bs sales invoice to determine whether  there 
has been a breach of contract  or if the agreement was misrepresented.  
I can see the deposit figure on the finance agreement  is £16,503.00 - Ive done  some of my 
own calculations to determine how this figure has been reached. Following this, I believe this 
figure was reached  by first starting with the part exchange value of Mr Cs previous car. On 
Bs invoice  I can see this was £20,005.00. Then Santander have taken off the amount that 
was given back to Mr C which was £4,502.00  (the difference between the part exchange  
value and the finance borrowed) which gives a total of £15,503.00. Then  the £1,000 deposit 
Mr C paid has been added which gives  the total deposit figure on the finance  agreement.  So 
whilst the figures may be illustrated differently on the Bs sales  invoice, I dont think  this 
makes a material difference.  And Im satisfied Mr C got the borrowing he agreed to  the 
term of the finance  and the amount he borrowed are correct and I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for Mr C not to pay for a car that hes had use of.
Mr C says he thinks the total interest should  be £1,216.00 and not £1,217.12. Hes provided 
his own calculations of how hes reached this figure. He says the yearly  interest on the 
£10,000 borrowed was £304.00  Mr C has used an interest rate of 3.04%.  Hes multiplied 
£304.00 by the length of the agreement which was 4 years.  And this equals to £1,216.00.
Santander have  sent me a breakdown of their interest calculations which Ive carefully 
looked at. I can see theyve calculated the interest  on a monthly basis on the total borrowed  
which was £10,000.  However, I can see from the calculations  that the actual interest rate 
was slightly higher than 3.04%, it was 3.0426%. So I dont think  the agreement was factually 
incorrect.
Ref: DRN04875693Based on what Ive explained,  I dont think there  has been a breach  of contract and I dont 
think the finance agreement was misrepresented.
Affordability checks not done at the time of applying for the finance
Mr C says Santander didnt ask him to complete an income and expenditure form at the time 
he acquired the car. Mr C also says affordability  assessments  should  have been carried  out 
to prove  Mr Cs creditworthiness.
Santander said they carried out the relevant checks at the time to ensure the finance was 
affordable for Mr C. They said they saw Mr C had a high credit  score,  a low indebtedness 
score, full traceability dating  back to 2004,  a low credit card balance in comparison to his 
limits and they also considered the fact that he was able to put down roughly 60% deposit for 
the car. Santander  say as a result  of this, they didnt deem it reasonable to carry out further 
affordability checks as Mr Cs application  was automatically accepted.
Based on what Santander  have provided us with in terms of the checks  carried  out, I do 
think they couldve done more checks considering the amount Mr C was borrowing - I dont 
think they gathered  enough information around Mr Cs circumstances at the time to show  he 
would have been able to sustainably repay  the debt. However, for me to say whether or not 
Santander shouldve  agreed to offer the finance  to Mr C, Id need to think  about what 
Santander would have seen had they carried out proportionate checks.
I can see we asked  Mr C for a copy of his bank statements from the time he got the car, to 
be able to get a clearer  picture of his financial position. However, I note Mr C didnt wish to 
provide these. So even if I accept Santander couldve done more  checks,  theres nothing  to 
suggest that Mr C wasnt  able to sustainably repay the debt. And based on this, I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Santander to refund any of the payments 
that Mr C made toward the finance. I say this because I cant see that failing to do more  
checks had any impact  or caused  any detriment to Mr C.  
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0487569