K820x#14complaint
Ms S and Mr L complain  as directors of B, a limited company, about the service provided by 
Society of Lloyds when  they made  a claim on a special event insurance  policy,  and delays 
making a decision  on the claim.
background
Ms S and Mr L set up a limited company called B, which arranged  a three day festival  in 
September 2017. They are both directors of the company. They took out a special  event 
policy in Bs name. When two days of the festival had to be cancelled, Ms S and Mr L made 
a claim to cover losses B had incurred.
Society of Lloyds agreed to cover the claim and made three payments, totalling £150,000 
between October and December 2017. Society of Lloyds subsequently paid a further  
payment of around  £2,000.
Ms S and Mr L were  unhappy with this settlement  as they said it didnt cover  all of Bs 
losses; in particular the cost of wages for the various roles they carried  out arranging  the 
event as directors of the company. Society  of Lloyds said B wasnt  entitled to recover  these 
costs but offered a further payment on a without prejudice basis,  as full and final settlement 
of the claim. 
Ms S and Mr L didnt  accept this and complained to our service.
Society of Lloyds told us this payment  fell outside of its liability  under the policy,  but was paid 
as a goodwill  gesture and covered any inconvenience experienced by B.
During our investigation, Ms S and Mr L said they accepted the payment in settlement of Bs 
claim. But they said Society  of Lloyds took too long to deal with the claim and kept asking 
them for more information;  this caused them a great deal of distress and inconvenience. And 
they said theyd  had to take out a loan to cover costs arising from the cancellation  while they 
waited for the claim to be paid. So they wanted some compensation for these  issues.
Our investigator thought the additional  payment was fair  and more  than any award she 
would have recommended  to reflect the inconvenience caused.  So she didnt ask Society of 
Lloyds to make any further payment.
Ms S and Mr L disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsmans  decision.  
They referred to a report from a loss assessor who helped them  with the claim, saying this 
showed how poor the service had been.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for B if the event it organised has to be cancelled  for certain 
reasons, and will pay for Bs net loss up to the indemnity  limit. Society of Lloyds made a 
number of payments  and by December 2017 said it had paid the amounts due. Ms S and 
Mr L disagreed but in the end they accepted, on behalf of B, a further payment in final 
Ref: DRN04856902settlement of the claim.  As the claim  has been settled, Im not reviewing the amounts paid by 
Society of Lloyds for the claim. 
The complaint is made  on behalf of B. As a limited company, its a separate legal entity from 
Ms S and Mr L. So I cant make  any award  to them personally. And as a limited company 
cant suffer  distress, I can only consider the inconvenience caused to B as a result  of any 
delay dealing with the claim. 
I can see there was a lot of correspondence  over a lengthy period.  Ms S and Mr L say most 
of this was duplicated, because Society of Lloyds kept asking for the same information they 
had already provided. And this took up a lot of time,  taking them  way from dealing with other 
activities they should have been  carrying out as directors of B. They also say they had to 
chase promised responses on many occasions throughout the period from January to May 
2018.
I dont think there was delay in the initial period after the claim.  By December 2017 B had 
received a number  of payments, and Society  of Lloyds  said it had paid virtually everything 
due under the claim. The outstanding dispute was mainly  to do with payments for the roles 
they undertook  in arranging the event.  Im satisfied there was no delay during the period up 
to January 2018.
In January 2018 Ms S and Mr L submitted what was described as the very final claim 
version. There was further correspondence  for some months after that. But I dont think 
Society of Lloyds was being obstructive. It wasnt refusing to deal with the claim, but was 
reviewing their further submissions and considering  whether  it should  pay any more. Its 
conclusion was that it had paid what was due under the policy  terms, but it offered a further  
payment as a goodwill gesture. And that payment  made outside the policy  terms  was 
more than any award I would make  for inconvenience caused to B. Taking into account all 
the circumstances, I dont think a payment of compensation, on top of the goodwill payment 
already made, would be fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Mr L (on 
behalf of B) to accept  or reject my decision before  15 June 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0485690