K820x#14Complaint
Miss C held a retailers storecard account.  She complains that the credit limit on her account 
was increased twice at times when she was unable  to afford those increases.  Miss C brings  
her complaint about Debt Managers (Services) Limited (DMS) rather  than the retailer 
because DMS bought her debt in 2016. 
Background
Miss Cs credit relationship with the retailer dates back to 2008.  She made her last order 
with them  in 2013, and her storecard  account was placed into default in 2014.  DMS bought 
the defaulted debt of £1,163 in 2016 and Miss C has since  been paying it off under an 
arrangement.
Miss C complained to DMS in August 2018  about the credit  limit increases.  She  asked DMS 
to refund interest  and late payment charges (plus interest at a rate of 8%) and for the default 
markers against her name at the credit reference agencies  to be removed.  DMS asked the 
retailer for information about the credit limit increases but did not receive anything.  Without  
that it said it could  not look into Miss Cs concerns.
Our investigator took a similar view.   He asked Miss C for information about when her credit 
limit was increased, statements of her account  from the time, and her credit report.  She  was 
unable to provide  any of that information,  and although the investigator tried to research her 
credit history  he was unable to obtain  information going back that far.  He therefore 
concluded that he did not have enough background information to be able to look into Miss 
Cs complaint fully, let alone to uphold it.  Miss  C was not happy with that outcome, and she 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im satisfied that the complaint is properly made  against DMS  because they 
bought Miss Cs debt from the retailer.  But its also the case  that, without relevant  
information from the retailer, DMS could not effectively look into a complaint  about prior 
credit limit increases.  Its clear that DMS asked  the retailer for this information, and they said 
they would  try to help.   That  said, this did go back quite  a long time even then  so a lack of 
information may not be surprising.  Indeed, its not clear if the limit increases happened 
within the six years prior to Miss C bringing her complaint.  If they were  made  before then we 
would not have the formal  power  to consider  the complaint.  But  the investigator gave Miss C 
the benefit of the doubt and looked  into things as best he could.   However, without any 
information from the time  particularly from Miss C  there  was little he could do.
I have come to the same  overall  conclusion as the investigator did.  In the absence of 
anything from Miss C to support what she has said about how she was using her account at 
the time and/or the status of the other  credit she explains she then had, I cannot  begin to 
form a fair or realistic judgement about the decisions the retailer made to increase her credit  
limit in the period up to 2013.  Moreover, whilst I can see that it may have been helpful if the 
retailer had provided  relevant  supporting  information, in isolation and without anything 
substantive from Miss C that may not have been enough.  In any event, I cannot fairly hold 
DMS responsible for the retailer not having provided  information.   
Ref: DRN08123352In all the circumstances, therefore, it follows that I am unable to see a fair or reasonable 
basis for me to require  DMS to meet Miss Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I am unable  to uphold  Miss Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C either to 
accept or to reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0812335