K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 4 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld and what FICL has to do to put things right. 
I invited both parties to provide me with anything else they would like me to consider before I 
issued my final decision. 
Neither party has replied  to my provisional decision with anything  further. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything further  to consider, I confirm my provisional findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put the matter right by calculating the 
compensation as directed in my provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  
Ref: DRN03530562background
This complaint  is about  a PPI policy taken out in 1995  alongside  a store card. Mrs M was sold the policy at the 
same time she applied for the store card in the shop.
Our adjudicator  didn't recommend that the complaint  should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
And since  the adjudicator  issued the opinion, we have received further information about Mrs Ms employment at 
the time of the sale. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered  what Mrs M has said  including the updated  employment information  and have provisionally 
decided to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why. 
Weve had different testimony from Mrs M about  her circumstances. Initially  she told us she had been employed 
for about five years  and had employee benefits, if she wasnt able to work, of six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay. It was on the basis of this information the adjudicator didn't think we could uphold the complaint.  
The benefits of the policy would have  paid 15% of the store card balance per month. And any payments would  
have been  over and above any employee benefits she may have received. So our adjudicator concluded Mrs M 
would still have found the policy  worthwhile.
Since the adjudicator  issued her opinion, its become clear that Mrs M wasnt in that particular role at the time of 
the sale. So Ive reconsidered whether these different  circumstances were now aware of would  have led to a 
different outcome for Mrs Ms complaint. And after doing so, I provisionally think  they would. 
Mrs M has told us that since 1992  three  years before she took the policy   she was participating  in 
apprenticeship type training (Youth  Training  Scheme) with employers. I see that she did that for four years and 
with two different commercial  employers in total. From  what I know of these types of scheme it would appear  that 
Mrs M was effectively employed  by the two separate  employers and received a wage. She worked for more than 
16 hours  per week which would mean she was eligible for the policy. 
But Ive looked at the policy  terms and provisionally dont  think that in Mrs Ms then current role when she took 
the PPI that she could have made  a successful  claim. I say this because the policy  terms, under section 5 say -  
CIRCUMSTANCES WHEN YOU  CANNOT MAKE A CLAIM  
E We will not pay Unemployment claims:
If at the Starting  Date  you knew you were  going  to be made Unemployed or you had reason  
to believe that it was likely to happen;
The policy  terms  also say that Mrs M could not have  claimed  for any disability benefit if she was too unwell  to 
work because of  
B..
any of the causes set out in E below about Unemployment claims
The Youth Training Scheme offered placements of up to two years for 16/17 year olds.  Mrs M had two 
placements. Mrs M was 18 years of age when  she took the store card and PPI. It could have  been the case  that 
her employer - while she was on the scheme - may have offered her continued employment passed the usual two 
year term. But it wasnt unforeseeable  that she would become unemployed at the end of the term.
So I dont  think  she could have  benefitted  from policy  if she was too unwell  to work  or was to lose her job. If Mrs 
M had been aware that her employment circumstances meant  she wasnt able to make a successful claim on the 
Ref: DRN03530563policy I think its unlikely  she would have taken it. And the policy  terms dont make it immediately clear the Mrs M 
couldnt make a claim  and need  to be read in two different sections of the terms. 
So I think  Mrs M has lost out by taking  the policy. To put that right FICL should put Mrs M in the financial position 
shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A. FICL should  find out how much Mrs M would have owed  when she closed  her store card account if the 
policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It 
should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those  charges. 
FICL should  then refund the difference between  what Mrs M owed  when she closed  her account and what 
she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the claim from 
the amount it owes her.  
B. FICL should  add simple interest on the difference between  what  Mrs M would have  owed when she closed 
her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
C. If  when FICL works  out what Mrs M would have owed  each  month  without  PPI   she paid more than 
enough to clear her balance, FICL  should  also pay simple interest  on the extra Mrs M paid.  And it should 
carry on paying interest  until the point  when Mrs M would have owed FICL  something on her store card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. FICL should  tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to uphold  this complaint and direct Financial  Insurance Company Limited to resolve 
matters as Ive directed above.  As such, I now invite  both parties to let me have their responses  in line with the 
guidance at the beginning of this decision. 
Ref: DRN0353056