K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Saffron Building  Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with a mortgage in 2002. 
background
When she took out her mortgage, Mrs B also took out PPI to cover her monthly mortgage 
repayments in the event  that she couldnt work as a result of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagrees. She mainly says that she 
remembers being told by Saffron Building Society  that she had to have the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Heres why I say this.
Theres nothing in the mortgage  paperwork that says Mrs B was required to take out PPI as 
a condition of the mortgage. And, looking at the mortgage paperwork,  I think  Saffron Building 
Society made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to have it. 
Although I dont know what was said when PPI was discussed, I think  Mrs B would've been 
able to see that it was clearly set out on the mortgage application that the PPI was optional. 
Mrs B had the opportunity to say on the mortgage  application form if she didn't want to have  
PPI. As she didn't  do that, in line with its normal sales process,  Saffron Building Society 
posted the PPI application  form to Mrs B at home.  I can see that Mrs B signed the 
application confirming  that she wished to apply for this insurance. 
Its completely understandable that Mrs B told us she couldnt remember  some of the details 
from so long ago. But, I think its likely  at the time that Mrs B understood that it was up to her 
to decide if she wanted to apply for the PPI, and it was added  to her account  when  she 
chose to do so.  
Saffron Building Society didnt recommend  PPI to Mrs B. But it still had to make sure that 
Mrs B had enough information to make a proper  decision  about whether PPI was right for 
her.
Saffron Building Society told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy  document  from the 
date Mrs B took out PPI. But it has provided a later policy document  which it said was similar 
to the one sent to Mrs B. Looking  at this, I think its likely that in all main respects the policy  
that Mrs B took out wouldve had similar  terms and conditions.
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if she was off work as a result of 
an accident or sickness. So this was longer than Mrs B couldve relied  on her employer to 
pay her sick pay  and the policy would've paid out on top of any sick pay. Bearing in mind  
that Mrs B mightve also had some additional costs  if she was too unwell to go back  to work  
or disabled,  I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
Ref: DRN05291392And the policy wouldve also protected Mrs B for up to 12 months  each time if she lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Mrs B couldve made repeated claims.  So PPI provided long term protection  for her 
mortgage.  
Ive taken into account everything that Mrs B has told us about her circumstances at the time 
she applied  for the PPI. And I've looked  at the details of Mrs Bs overall financial situation 
shown on her mortgage application. Although Mrs B mentioned having some savings, I dont 
think the amount  shes indicated  wouldve been  sufficient for me reasonably  to say that the 
policy wasnt of benefit to her. And I cant be sure that shed always  have had savings  to rely 
on if shed needed  to make a claim under  the policy. 
Although she was eligible for death in service  benefit from her employer, PPI provided a 
different sort of cover  and paid out in different circumstances. 
She also had some  insurance  through work  that would provide a monthly benefit to replace a 
proportion of lost earnings once her sick pay entitlement  had ended. But as this wouldnt 
have replaced  her lost income in full I can see why Mrs B mightve also wanted the 
protection that PPI offered. Her mortgage was a big monthly expense and her home  could've  
been at risk if she wasn't able to keep up her mortgage monthly repayments. 
Mrs B also had some other types of insurance  through her employer  but these didnt offer 
protection for her mortgage. So this information  doesnt change my decision.
It was up to Mrs B to decide  if she wanted  to take out PPI, in the knowledge of any existing 
cover or other money she mightve had. Given her circumstances, I can see why she 
mightve wanted to take advantage of the benefits  PPI offered her. I think it did provide her 
with useful benefits given her situation.
There were some things that the policy didnt cover. But Mrs B wasnt  affected  by any of 
those. So, as she couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely that 
having better information about the policys  exclusions and limitations  wouldve put Mrs B off 
taking it out. 
The application Mrs B completed to get the PPI showed what it would cost her each month  
and she signed  an instruction form to her bank to pay for this. So it looks  to me like she was 
happy to pay for the cover  at the time. As this was a policy  she paid for each month, Mrs B 
couldve cancelled the PPI at no extra cost if she decided she didnt any longer want to pay 
for it. 
Overall, I think it unlikely  shed have made a different decision about whether to take out 
PPI if better information had been  provided.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs B paid on this policy   and whether Saffron 
Building Society treated her unfairly. 
Saffron Building Society has told us that the commission for Mrs Bs policy was less than half 
of what she paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Saffron Building Society has been 
working this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Bs commission 
was less than half the cost of the policy. 
Ref: DRN05291393As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell Mrs B about the commission  so I dont 
think Saffron Building Society  treated her unfairly.  
This means  it doesnt need to pay Mrs B back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mrs B has said. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. In my decision Ive dealt with 
all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0529139