K821x#15complaint
Ms S and Mr V complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance policy in 2003 alongside their mortgage.
background
Ms S and Mr V took out a mortgage in 2003  and at the same  time they bought  a Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). This is a packaged protection  plan and it consisted  of 
three parts - PPI, critical illness cover  and life cover. 
Ms S and Mr V took out all three parts of the plan but to be clear this decision is about the 
PPI part of the policy only. The PPI covered Ms S and Mr V for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. It would have cost around £34.92  per month and on a successful  claim it 
would have paid out a monthly benefit of £292.58 split between  them  50/50 for up to 24 
months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms S and Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. They disagreed  
with this view and asked  that their complaint  be referred to an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general  approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I realise  Ms S and Mr V will be 
disappointed with my decision so I will explain why below.
This sale took place  a long time ago and not all the paperwork from the sale is available.  
Thats not unusual  as I can understand why Ms S and Mr V cant  remember everything that 
happened and businesses arent  required to keep its records indefinitely.  But where the 
information is incomplete I will look at this complaint on the balance of probabilities;  that is 
whats more likely to have  happened  taking into account what  both parties  have told me, the 
paperwork that is available and also thinking about what we know  about these types  of 
sales.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Ms S and Mr V were  given  a fair choice about 
buying the PPI. Theyve told me it wasnt  emphasised that the PPI was optional. Theyve 
also said they werent aware the policy was in place. Halifax  has sent some internal records 
from which I can see Ms S and Mr V were asked for some information about their 
circumstances. And I think its more likely they would have received some  paperwork setting  
out their choices. So I think if they were unaware  they had the policy  its likely they could 
have questioned it with Halifax if they were unsure about it. From what  we know about these 
types of policies, I think Ms S and Mr V would likely have been given a choice about buying it 
and would have  known they were  choosing the PPI and had the option to decline it if they 
didnt want it.
Ref: DRN01469852Halifax advised Ms S and Mr V to take out the policy in a branch. That meant it had to make 
sure it was suitable for them  as well as giving them enough clear information so they could  
decide for themselves whether or not they wanted  it.
Looking at their circumstances and the terms and conditions of the policy,  I think  the PPI 
would have been suitable for them.
Ms S and Mr V were eligible for the PPI. And they have told us they were  in good health  at 
the time they took out the cover. And they were  working so I dont think they would have 
been affected by any of the main limitations  or exclusions set out in the policys terms and 
conditions which might have made  it harder to make a successful claim.
Ms S and Mr V say they had some savings which could have helped  them  if things went 
wrong. But this policy  would have paid out for up to 24 months per claim. So it paid out as 
well as any savings they had and meant they could have used them  for other important living  
expenses. And as they were taking  out a mortgage, the consequences of not being able to 
repay it were  serious. If they lost their jobs or couldnt work their income  would have 
substantially reduced  so I think they might have valued the protection the PPI gave and I 
think it could have  been useful if things went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable for Ms S and Mr V.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But thats not enough 
to uphold this complaint.  I next need to think whether Ms S and Mr V would have been put 
off buying the PPI if theyd had better or clearer information. I cant say they would have 
been. It looks like they chose the PPI and it would have been  useful  for them  if things went 
wrong. And for much  the same reasons as Ive explained above as to why I think  the PPI 
was suitable, I dont think Ms S and Mr V would have been  put off buying the cover even if 
theyd been given more information  about it.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S and Mr V.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms S and Mr V because : 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S and Mr V about  that. Because  Halifax didnt tell 
Ms S and Mr V, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Ms S and Mr V have said. But these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Ms S and Mr V any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax  should  also pay back to Ms S and Mr V any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN01469853Halifax should pay back to Ms S and Mr V the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Ms S and Mr V 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms S and Mr V can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms S and Mr V.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms S and Mr V any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0146985