K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that he was provided  with incorrect information  when  he contacted 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF)  about  
his finance agreement. 
background 
In March 2016 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed  sum loan agreement  
with BPF. The loan advance was £10,889.82 with a total amount repayable  of £13,069.00 
over 60 months with monthly  repayments of £217.80.
In August  2018  Mr R contacted BPF about  his agreement. During the call he was told by an 
agent that he could voluntary terminate his agreement. 
Mr R says that in reliance on this advice  he purchased a new car. He contacted BPF again 
to voluntary terminate  the agreement but was advised he couldnt  voluntary terminate 
because his agreement  was a fixed sum loan agreement. 
Mr R subsequently  sold the car to a third party for £4500 which left a balance on his loan 
agreement, meaning  that he had to continue to make repayments  for a further 5 months.
Mr R complained to BPF. BPF acknowledged  that it had given incorrect  advice and offered 
compensation of £100 which was paid to Mr Rs account.
Mr R complained to this service. He wants BPF to pay the shortfall hes incurred as a result 
of entering into a new finance  agreement.  Hes also unhappy that BPF closed his complaint 
and says he never accepted the offer of £100 compensation.
During the investigation by this service, BPF acknowledged that the offer of compensation 
had never  been  formally accepted by Mr R. It offered to pay a further £250 to resolve the 
complaint.
Our investigator felt that this offer was a fair resolution. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said hed purchased a new car in reliance on the information given to 
him by BPF and that hed had to pay £1700 to settle  the agreement. He didnt think the 
compensation was sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF hasnt  been able to locate a copy of the call where Mr R was advised  about voluntary 
termination. It has acknowledged that it provided Mr R with information about  voluntary 
termination during  a call dated 2 August 2018 and it accepts  that the information given was 
incorrect because Mr R had a fixed sum loan agreement.
I dont doubt that Mr R acted in reliance on the information provided by BPF when he 
decided to purchase a new car. However, I cant see that Mr R took any steps to initiate the 
voluntary termination  process before he purchased his new car on 7 August 2018.  It wasnt  
Ref: DRN07482782until after he purchased and took delivery  of his new car that he contacted BPF again about  
voluntary termination.  
Mr R has explained that he acted in this way so that he wasnt  left without a car. I 
understand Mr Rs reasons but I think it wouldve been possible for him to contact BPF to 
arrange the voluntary termination  to coincide  with delivery of the new car, which  is what  most 
consumers do. If Mr R had done  this, he would  have found out that he couldnt  voluntary 
terminate much sooner   and before he committed to the purchase of a new car.
I understand that Mr R sold the car for £4500 which left a balance on his loan account of 
approximately £1700. Mr R paid this balance off over a period  of approximately 5 months  
whilst making  payments under his new agreement at the same  time. 
I understand why Mr R feels that BPF should  be responsible for his losses.  However, I have  
to take account  of the fact that Mr R sold his car to a third party company which  generally  
offers less for a car than could be achieved by way of private sale or part exchange. So I 
think Mr R could have done more to mitigate  his loss here.
Im also of the view that (in spite of the information  provided by BPF) it was Mr Rs 
responsibility to check  his agreement and familiarise himself  with the terms and conditions. If 
Mr R had checked his agreement I think he would have realised that it was a fixed sum loan 
agreement which could  not be voluntary terminated.  
I understand that the information  provided by BPF caused inconvenience to Mr R and I think 
its correct to reflect this inconvenience with an award of compensation. But taking 
everything into account - including the further  frustration  caused to Mr R when BPF closed 
his complaint on the assumption hed accepted the first offer of compensation -  I think  the 
current offer of further compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Clydesdale Financial Services Limited must 
pay further compensation of £250 to Mr R (in addition to the £100 already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0748278