K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Scottish  Widows Limited. He is unhappy with the potential value 
of his pension.
background
Mr F has a pension  plan with Scottish  Widows. The plan features a guaranteed annuity  rate 
(GAR). Mr F recently discovered that the GAR  doesnt apply to the full value of his pension.  
So his pension is worth  a lot less than he expected.
Scottish Widows  has explained that the GAR  didnt  apply  to pension contributions made 
after 1999. This meant that the GAR  didnt  apply to a substantial redress payment it made it 
made in 2002  for the mis-selling of this pension. Mr F says that he wasnt made aware of the 
change in the application of the GAR. But Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F also became aware that Scottish Widows  failed  to pay the correct amount of redress  in 
2002. Scottish Widows acknowledge that mistake  and has put this right by making a 
backdated additional payment. It also offered £1,000  for any distress and inconvenience this 
error had caused.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by an investigator. The 
investigator didnt  think  it should be upheld. In summary, he said the redress  payment for 
mis-selling appeared to have been calculated in line with the relevant  guidance  for pension 
mis-selling cases at the time. This calculation of redress applied predicted future annuity 
rates and didnt  rely on the value  of the GAR. The investigator also noted that Scottish 
Widows could evidence that it had written to Mr F in 1999 (and again in 2002) telling him 
about the change in the GAR provision.  And finally, the investigator felt that the offer of 
£1,000 for the inconvenience caused by the accepted error was fair in all the circumstances.
Mr F didnt  agree. He said that Scottish  Widows  had no records  or copy letters.  His account 
seemed to have  disappeared until two years  ago. He was given different information  about 
when the GAR ceased to apply and has received  statements suggesting that the GAR 
applied to all of the funds.
The investigator responded and explained  that he was satisfied that Scottish  Widows  had 
given information  about the change to the GAR  in 1999. He also felt the offer of £1,000 was 
fair for poor service and the incorrect redress payment. He added that the calculation  of 
redress for mis-selling was considered fair at the time. The investigator asked for sight of the 
recent statement  which Mr F said suggested the GAR applied to all funds, but none  was 
provided.
Mr F didnt  agree and asked for a decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for essentially  the same reasons. I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Ill address the issues in the same order as the investigator.
Ref: DRN07224492The pension review  redress
The redress  for mis-selling was calculated in 2002. Essentially, Scottish Widows had to 
follow the regulators guidance and assess the amount that needed to be added to Mr Fs 
pension so that he should receive the same benefits  at retirement  in 2019 as he would have 
received had he remained in his occupational pension scheme. That calculation  was made 
and a payment  agreed. But the calculation itself relied on projections and estimates. These 
included predictions  of future investment  growth  and predictions  of future annuity rates.  Its 
probably fair to say that investment growth  has been  lower  than was expected over the 
intervening years, and the annuity rates now available  are lower than was anticipated. This 
two factors both have  a negative impact on Mr Fs pension. This double  impact means that 
the redress he received  will not actually have  achieved  what  was anticipated at the time it 
was calculated. Thats clearly unfortunate, and many people hve been affected in the same  
way.
But although  the predictions  and estimates have not proved entirely  accurate, they were 
considered reasonable at the time and were  set by the regulator. So I dont think  it would be 
fair to uphold the complaint and direct that the agreement should reopened and redress 
recalculated.
And I agree with the investigator when he explained  that the annuity rates applied in the 
redress calculation would  have been estimated future rates,  and not the GAR.
The removal  of the GAR
The terms and conditions  did allow Scottish  Widows  to remove the GAR  for increases to 
regular contributions and single premium  contributions. Im satisfied, on balance  that it wrote 
to Mr F informing  him of this change in 1999.  Im also satisfied that further  correspondence  
was sent in 2002 which referred to this change.  
I note that Scottish  Widows cant produce a copy of the letter it sent in 1999, although it can 
provide a template of it. I agree with the investigator  that this in itself is not unusual. I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to expect  a business to hold copy  correspondence for almost 
twenty years.
Its unfortunate if Mr F didnt  receive these letters. And I appreciate that he may have made 
different decisions about  his pension if he had received them  and known about the change 
to the GAR. But as Ive said, Im satisfied the letters were sent and so Scottish Widows cant 
fairly be held responsible  for any lack of information about the GAR.
The mis-selling redress
Mr F was told in 2003 that the pension review  redress  paid was incorrect and that he would 
receive a further  payment of approximately £15,000.  But he noticed  that this further payment 
hadnt been made. He was understandably unhappy  about  that and when this was raised  
with Scottish Widows, it acknowledged its error  and made the payment, backdating it to 
2002. It also offered  £1,000 for any distress and inconvenience this error may have caused.
I agree  with the adjudicator that this offer is fair. I dont doubt  that discovering  this error will 
have caused great  concern to Mr F particularly at a time when  he was coming to terms with 
Ref: DRN07224493the position in relation to the GAR. But Im satisfied that a payment of £1,000  adequately 
reflects the impact and the degree  of upset  this will have caused.
my final decision
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mr F was anticipating or hoping for but I dont uphold 
this complaint or make any award. I consider  the offer of £1,000 made  by Scottish  Widows to 
be fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0722449