K820x#14complaint
Mr K, on behalf of a company that Ill call H, complains that H has not received a claim 
payment under a bloodstock insurance policy where  Swiss  Re International SE is the 
insurer. 
background
Mr K, on behalf of H, bought a stallion intending  to use the horse for breeding. He had to 
transport the horse and he arranged bloodstock insurance through  an insurance broker 
based overseas,  which Ill call broker J. 
The insurer  for the policy was Swiss Re, which in turn used an insurance  intermediary  
company as its agent, which  Ill call intermediary  I. 
Unfortunately, the horse became suddenly ill and died. Mr K made a claim under the policy. 
Swiss Re accepted the claim. Through  intermediary I it sent the payment to broker J, as 
agent for Mr K. I understand that broker J sent the claim money to Mr K but he explains that 
he didnt receive  the money. The correspondence  suggests the possibility of an email  
interception fraud. Mr K complained to all the parties  involved and he also came to us. 
On behalf of Swiss Re, intermediary I says that it paid the claim money to broker  J in line 
with the proof of loss form signed by Mr K (acting  for H). Swiss Re says it has fulfilled its 
agreement with H by paying the claim.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that Swiss  Re had paid the claim 
correctly to broker J. So Swiss Re isnt responsible  for Mr K and H not receiving the claim 
payment. She explained we cant consider a complaint about the overseas broker  J as it isnt 
covered by our service. Mr K didnt agree with the outcome so the complaints come to me 
for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry  to read about the background to this complaint.  I appreciate this will be a 
further disappointment  to Mr K but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
I consider that Swiss Re properly  paid the claim, through intermediary  I. The proof of loss 
form clearly said that the payment of the claim would be made to broker J. The form also 
said that such payment  would be sufficient discharge to underwriters.  Mr K signed  the 
proof of loss form on behalf of H. Intermediary I has sent us evidence  that it sent the full 
claim payment to broker J, in line with the signed proof of loss form.
Theres no dispute that broker J, as agent for Mr K and H, received the payment. At that 
point I consider Swiss Re had taken reasonable steps to settle the claim. It had no further 
liability to Mr K and H.
Ref: DRN03876272I understand that there was a problem when broker J arranged  to send the money to Mr K. 
But I dont consider that this was Swiss Res responsibility where  it had properly paid the 
claim to broker  J. So I dont  uphold  this complaint.
As our investigator explained we havent any jurisdiction  to consider a complaint about  
broker J, which is based overseas and isnt covered by this service.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K, on behalf  of 
H, to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2019. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0387627