K821x#15complaint
Mrs J has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) calculation  of her pet insurance 
premiums.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mrs J initially took out her policy in 2013. At that time she was an employee of UKIs  
business group and as such UKI offered her generous discounts  when  taking out the policy. 
Prior to renewing her policy in 2018  UKI noted  that Mrs J was no longer an employee and 
removed the staff discounts it had previously applied. As a result her premium increased 
dramatically. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 May 2019. For ease I've copied  my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments again very carefully to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, Im going 
to uphold it; my award for redress will be similar  to that recommended by our adjudicator.
When Mrs J took out the policy for her two cats she was an employee  of UKIs business  
group and as such it offered her generous  staff discounts. One of those  accounted for a 50% 
reduction in premium and a second  meant she received 12 months cover for the price  of 9 
months. 
Mrs J had stopped  working for UKI before  the policy renewed in 2014. So it shouldn't have  
continued to offer her staff discounts.  But it didn't remove  them.  So Mrs J continued to 
benefit from the discounts between 2014 and 2018. At that point UKI realised its mistake.  So 
it removed the discounts.  As a result Mrs Js premium increased from around £277 in 2017 
to £967 in 2018. Although  UKI later reduced  this figure to around £768  when Mrs J agreed to 
increase her excess.  
Mrs J said that she didn't know UKI had continued to apply discounts she wasn't entitled to. 
And if it had removed those in 2014 she would have looked to the market to find a policy that 
better suited  her needs at that time. She said shes not in a position to do that now because 
her cats have aged and one has a pre-existing condition. So she can't find an alternative 
policy that offers similar cover as her UKI policy. And, in effect shes  stuck with the UKI 
policy and the premiums its charging.
UKI said Mrs J knew her policy  attracted  a staff discount of 50%, which  was common 
knowledge among employees. It said she didn't query if her premium  was still discounted 
after her position  changed. It added that shed benefited from UKIs mistake not to remove  
the discounts promptly. 
The policy documents UKI sent Mrs J between 2014  and 2017 didnt tell her that her 
premium still included  discounts. And the premiums did increase year-on-year.  So as it didn't 
explain its premium calculations Mrs J wouldn't necessarily have known she was still 
receiving discounts  she was no longer entitled to. UKI is responsible for calculating  its 
premiums. And I think Mrs J could have had a reasonable expectation that it would only 
Ref: DRN04007362apply discounts  when those were due. So it would be understandable if she hadn't  realised 
that UKI had continued to apply staff discounts  when she was no longer a staff member.
If UKI had removed the discounts prior to the policy renewal  in 2014 then Mrs Js premium 
would have cost her quite a lot more. For example in 2014, I think  it would have  increased  
from around £135 to about £358.  So I can understand  that Mrs J might well have wanted to 
compare that premium and the policy benefits  with other  policies available  at that time. But, 
given the passage of time and the developments in the pet insurance industry since then, I 
cant say with any certainty what the outcome  of that comparison would have been. 
Its possible Mrs J might have found cheaper  policies. But even if that was the case whether 
or not those would have provided the level of cover Mrs J wanted  is extremely  difficult to 
determine now. For example Im aware  that most  pet polices on the market   now and then 
 will have strict claims limits: capping the amount they will pay for each claim. And the level 
of those and how they are applied vary from policy to policy and insurer  to insurer. And, 
generally, cheaper polices  have lower limits or might be applied  per condition  or per lifetime 
of the pet, rather  than per year. Other policies require the consumer to a pay a proportion of 
any claim, as well as an excess, once  pets age. And some polices will have other terms and 
conditions that limit their benefits. And many consumers aren't happy  to accept policies with 
such terms. So, while Mrs J might have chosen  a different policy from another insurer. I can't 
be certain thats what would have happened.
Also, Im aware that in recent years, premiums for pet polices have  increased  significantly 
across the market. So a policy that might have been cheaper for Mrs J in 2014  might not 
have been cheaper for her in 2018.  So while I can understand that Mrs J might  feel that 
UKIs mistakes stopped  her from exploring  the market some year ago, I can't be certain  that 
shes lost out because of it. And in my experience of the current market,  the premium shes  
paying now doesn't seem excessive for a consumer with Mrs Js circumstances.
What I can say for certain  is that Mrs J has had the benefit of UKIs mistakes  in applying  
discounts for four years. And I think, as a result,  its charged Mrs J around £1,000 less that it 
would otherwise have done between 2014 and 2018. So while  I can understand Mrs Js 
unhappiness with the dramatic rise in her premium,  I think its likely that shes  actually 
benefited from UKIs mistakes. 
That said,  I understand that Mrs J was unaware of the situation until 2018. And shes now 
left with a sense of doubt about whether or not she would have been better off if UKI hadn't 
made its mistakes. And I can understand that uncertainty  will have been  a source of distress 
and inconvenience  for her. So, to address that, I think UKI should  pay her £150  
compensation.
For completeness Ill add that Mrs J has recently commented that shes unhappy  with the 
increase in her most recent renewal.  But that increase isn't associated with her complaint 
about discounts. So it doesn't form part of this complaint and UKI hasn't had the opportunity  
to address it. So I don't intend  to comment on that further here.
UKI accepted my provisional decision; Mrs J didn't respond.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Ref: DRN04007363As neither Mrs J nor UKI objected to my provisional findings I see no reason  to change 
those.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs J £150 compensation to address her distress and 
inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within  28 days  of us telling it that Mrs J has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If UKI pays  interest  and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN0400736