K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that Go Car Credit Limited refused to let him reject a faulty  car.
Background
In March 2018 Mr K acquired a second  had car at a cost of £6,960 which  was funded  by a 
hire purchase agreement with Go Car. It was some three years  old and had done 27,868 
miles. 
Shortly after this the car cut out while Mr K was driving it and he took it back  to the dealer. Its 
aftercare sales team arranged for a diagnostic test, which didnt identify a fault. On 31 May 
Mr K contacted Go Car and said the car was cutting out. It said it needed to see a diagnostic 
test report and it also needed to contact the dealer to establish  what it had done. Mr K had 
his own diagnostic test carried out and sent the report to the business on 4 June. 
This very brief report identified a fault with a fan, which was due to a possible problem with 
the temperature switch, or it might have been caused by an electrical issue.  The report  also 
noted the clutch may be on its way out. Mr K says he didnt hear back  from Go Car so he 
voluntarily terminated  (VT) the agreement.
 
Go Car says that once Mr K made it aware of the problem it contacted  the dealer, which 
confirmed no repair had been attempted. Its records show that it wrote  to Mr K on 6 June 
and again on 22 June. It followed these up with emails and Mr K responded on 5 July to say 
he would  be in touch  shortly.
Mr K called Go Car on 28 August and told it the car was parked in a no parking zone and 
they needed to come and collect it. The call handler  explained there were certain processes 
in place for VT and Mr K might be liable for any damage to the car. He decided  to have it 
repossessed. He also said he didnt want to pay for a car he couldnt drive.  The call handler  
explained what would happen as a result of this.
Go Car sent a termination notice on 29 August. It had already written to Mr K on 6 August 
2018 requesting  payment as the account  was in arrears. The car was then repossessed and 
the repossession costs  were added to the amount outstanding on the agreement. An arrears  
statement was sent on 14 January  2019  showing the car had been  sold and the outstanding 
sum due was £7,713.70.  
Mr K brought his complaint to this service, where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She acknowledged  that Mr K had issues 
with the car, but she needed  to see evidence that the business had acted unfairly by not 
following the correct  procedures. She didnt  think they had acted unfairly as they made 
numerous attempts  to arrange repairs with Mr K.  
Go Car had contacted Mr K on several occasions  to ask him to book the vehicle in for repair.  
He didnt do so and he then missed several  payments, so the car was repossessed. She 
thought that as Mr K didnt engage with Go Car in arranging for repairs  to be attempted  she 
didnt believe he would  have  been  able to reject  the vehicle at any point.  She didnt believe 
Go Car had behaved unfairly, or made  an error. Mr K didnt agree and said he had copies of 
emails he had sent to Go Car, but he didnt supply these. 
Ref: DRN03020262My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Go Car is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It may be that Mr Ks car wasnt fit for purpose, but I regret to say we dont have enough  
evidence to reach that conclusion. The diagnostic report he provided is very brief and only 
says that a fan is broken.  It then points to two possible  causes. It also says the clutch may 
be worn.  None of these issues were fully explored  as the car wasnt taken to be repaired and 
so the report is of limited  value. I have insufficient  evidence to show that the car was faulty  at 
the point of sale. 
I appreciate Mr K lost faith in the car and the dealer but he didnt give the latter  the 
opportunity to which it was entitled to attempt a repair.  If he had done so and the fault had 
not been fixed then he would be in a position  to have  rejected the car, but as he didnt I 
cannot say that Go Car was wrong to refuse his rejection request.
He entered into an agreement  and he wasnt entitled  to walk away from that without paying 
what was owed. I am satisfied Go Car made all reasonable efforts to engage with Mr K, but 
to no avail. It explained  what  was required and he took a different view and decided to let the 
car be repossessed. It made him aware of the consequences of taking that route. That was 
his choice and I cannot see that the business  did anything  wrong  in the handling of his 
complaint. 
Quite simply he didnt establish  there were grounds  for rejection and Go Car wasnt obliged 
to accept his request  without satisfactory  evidence  to support it. As such I am unable to 
uphold his complaint to this service. 
Ref: DRN03020263My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
30 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0302026