K820x#14complaint
Mr F says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a regular  premium  
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) policy when he took out a credit  card.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2006.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Fs credit card account when  he took out a credit card with NatWest.
The cost of the PPI policy  was £0.79  per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. If Mr F 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job a successful claim wouldve 
paid10% of the outstanding monthly  balance on Mr Fs credit card for up to 12 months per 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the policy was 
presented as optional and wouldve provided  a useful benefit.
Mr F disagreed. He says he didnt  know he had it and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
NatWest had to make  it clear the PPI was optional and make sure Mr F agreed to take it. Mr 
F says this wasnt done. Mr F hasnt given us much  detail about what made him think  this. 
But I think thats understandable  as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied  more  on 
what the documents from the time show and what we know about  how NatWest  sold PPI at 
the time.
NatWest has given  us a copy of the credit card application form. I can see on it there is a 
separate section  after Mr F has signed for the credit card that deals with PPI. Within this 
section it gives the option to select PPI and card protection. I can see that Mr F has placed a 
cross in the box next to the words I wish to purchase Payment  Protection but has left the 
boxes next to card protection clear  and then signed within the section confirming his 
selection. 
If Mr F didnt want to take out PPI then he couldve left the box clear like he did for card 
protection. So I think Mr F wouldve understood he had a choice about taking out PPI and he 
selected to take it because  he wanted  the cover. 
Because of the type of application form Mr F completed I dont think  the sale was advised. 
What this means is that NatWest didnt recommend PPI to Mr F, it just gave him information 
about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed choice  about buying PPI. 
Ref: DRN01956622Mr F says NatWest  failed to give him sufficient information for him to make an informed 
choice in taking  the policy. Its possible NatWest didnt do things properly when making sure 
the information provided on the policy was good  enough.
But that being said even if NatWest did give all the information  Mr F needed to make an 
informed choice on taking  out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy  because  at 
the time of the sale:
Mr F was eligible  for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr F says he was entitled  some sick pay and could of relied  on 
his parents to help make his repayments  if he couldnt work.  But there is no 
guarantee his parents could help and the policy wouldve  paid out of top of his sick 
pay and for potentially longer. So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit 
for him. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr F and if he no longer 
wanted the policy he was able to cancel it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr F on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited his needs and was of 
value to him.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because:  
When the policy was sold, NatWest expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr F about that. 
Because NatWest  didnt  tell Mr F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN01956623my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0195662