K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave  him loans 
that he couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Mr M took out six instalment loans with Satsuma  between  December  2015  and November 
2017. At the time of his complaint there  was a balance outstanding on Mr Ms final loan. I 
havent seen any information to suggest  that it has been paid. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  she 
thought that the checks Satsuma did before making the first four loans went far enough. But 
she didnt think it had carried  out adequate checks before making the other loans given 
Mr Ms borrowing history. She thought  that proportionate checks when Mr M applied  for 
loans 5 and 6 would have  shown that he wasnt borrowing sustainably. So she 
recommended that Satsuma refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid on loans 5 and 6, 
with interest on the refund. 
Satsuma didnt agree and said that Mr M did not demonstrate any difficulty  in repaying his 
loans and the fact that he had a number of loans did not demonstrate  that he couldnt afford 
to repay  them.  It said that the checks it did for all the loans were enough in the 
circumstances. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN08361022There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish whether 
Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Satsuma to give Mr M loans 1 to 4. I say 
this because this was early in the lending relationship and there was nothing in the 
information given  by Mr M to suggest  that further checks were necessary. The amounts 
Mr M had to pay back appeared  affordable  on the basis of the income and outgoings he 
declared. 
Mr M took the first four loans with overlapping terms and appeared to repay  them without 
difficulty. On the basis of the income and outgoings figures Mr M had around £1800 
disposable income and so the instalments would have appeared affordable.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history  with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think this point was reached by loan 5. 
I say this because:
Mr M applied for loan 5 a few weeks before loan 4 was due to be paid off. By this point 
Mr M had been  borrowing  continually from Satsuma since December 2015.  This was his 
highest loan to date.
I think this should  have put Satsuma  on notice that it was likely that Mr M was having 
problems managing his money.  His borrowing pattern appeared at odds with his 
declared disposable income.  So I think it should have been concerned that he wouldnt 
be able to repay the loan sustainably.
Mr M continued  to borrow from Satsuma without any significant  break  until he was 
unable to repay what he had borrowed after taking out loan 6.
Ref: DRN08361023I think that Mr M lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr M had been borrowing 
from Satsuma,  was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ms ability  to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 and 6. Mr M has had the benefit  of the money 
so it is only fair that he pays it back and so Satsuma can deduct any capital amount still 
outstanding after the refund of interest  and charges on the final loan.
I dont agree that the number of loans is not an indicator of difficulty  and that the checks 
were enough. Once Mr M became a prolonged borrower at the point  of loan 5 I think  that 
Satsuma should  have done  more  to check whether his borrowing was sustainable and that 
further checks would have revealed  that Mr M was in difficulty. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
Satsuma should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  5 and 6 inclusive;
write off any interest and charges not yet paid;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
apply the refund to offset any capital  balance outstanding before paying the balance to 
Mr M.
the number  of loans Mr M has taken  with Satsuma and the total length  of time hed been 
borrowing from it means any information  recorded about loans 5 and 6 is adverse. So all 
entries about these  loans  should be removed from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN08361024my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Provident  Personal Credit 
(trading as Satsuma) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0836102