K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B applied  for a joint mortgage with BoS in 2000. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy. The policy covered them both against being unable  to work due to accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment.  The policy cost £26.21 per month and wouldve paid 
a monthly benefit  for up to 24 months  in the event of a successful claim.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The mortgage was applied for and the policy sold to Mr and Mrs B during a meeting in 2000. 
BoS has been able to give us a copy of the mortgage application form and the PPI 
application.
In the mortgage  application form there  is a section headed, Accident, Sickness  and 
Unemployment Insurance.  Within this section is a statement that begins,  We recommend 
that you consider  our Mortgage Repayments Insurance Scheme.  Mr and Mrs Bs signatures 
appear next to the words Yes. I would like to take advantage of Mortgage  Repayments 
Insurance. 
There is nothing on the form that suggests the PPI had to be taken in order for the mortgage 
application to be accepted. And the wording that BoS recommends the policy,  and that       
Mr and Mrs B should consider  it, suggests  that Mr and Mrs B couldve declined the 
recommendation.
Mr and Mrs B also completed a separate PPI application form. The form states  By 
completing this application  form we will be able to decide if you are eligible  for Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance 
I cant be certain of what was said during the course of the meeting, it may be the BoS 
adviser told Mr and Mrs B they should  take out the policy,  but thats different to saying they 
had to. Having  looked at the paperwork available, I think  its most  likely they were made 
aware the PPI was optional and they chose to take it out. Although after so many  years I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs B might not recall this.
Ref: DRN03525612BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I 
say this because:
Mr and Mrs B were  not affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  For 
example they didnt  have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And they 
werent in an unusual employment  situation  which might not have been covered.
Mr and Mrs Bs employers  wouldve  paid them sick pay if theyd become too unwell to work. 
Theyve told us they were  entitled to up to six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay. But this particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and 
for up to 24 months. This is much longer than Mr and Mrs Bs full sick pay would last. So I 
still think Mr and Mrs B wouldve found the benefit useful if either of them had become too 
unwell to work, particularly if they were unwell for a prolonged period.
And if Mr or Mr B lost their job the monthly benefit would mean they could  use any 
redundancy pay or savings for other  living costs. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said they received little information about the policy. I cant know after all 
these years exactly what they were told or given at the time. And its possible the information 
BoS gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose 
to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
In summary,  I think its likely BoS made Mr and Mrs B aware the policy was optional  and 
they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  BoS recommended  was 
right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0352561