K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Virgin Money PLC wont refund a payment made on his credit card for 
a training course and test.
background
In January 2018 Mr W used his Virgin Money  credit card to pay for a training course  and 
subsequent test supplied by a training  company. He rang in before the test saying he didnt 
feel the training  was sufficient. He also rang in after the test to say hed failed and wanted to 
complain. The training  company didnt  agree  so Mr W took his issues to Virgin.
Virgin looked into the matter. It raised a chargeback with the training company and 
considered the matter  under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. But having done 
this it felt it had taken the matter as far as it could and didnt need to pay anything  to Mr W 
for the training course and test. Virgin did pay £75 to Mr Ws account due to failings in the 
customer service  it provided him.
Mr W didnt think  this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Virgin had acted  unfairly by declining Mr Ws 
request for a refund.  Mr W didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear this complaint is about  Virgin,  as Mr W credit card account provider. Its not 
about the training course provider, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt  fall 
within my remit.  As this complaint is only about  Virgin Im only considering  whether it should  
have helped with the dispute  with the training provider or not.
could Virgin  challenge  the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr W 
does here,  Virgin  (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through  a chargeback  process. I 
dont think Virgin couldve challenged the payment through the chargeback process  on the 
basis Mr W didnt  properly authorise the transaction, given the evidence here and that Mr W 
doesnt dispute he used his account  to pay for the training  and test.
Virgin is then required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it 
is considering whether  to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does, then it must 
do so properly. The supplier (training company) would then receive  that chargeback request 
and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, then 
Virgin should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can 
take the chargeback further and ultimately  to the scheme provider (not Virgin) who will then 
make an independent determination  on the matter. So Virgin isnt solely responsible for the 
decision whether  to refund or not when going  through the chargeback  process.
In this case Virgin raised the chargeback  and the training company contested  it by 
responding that Mr W got what he paid for, as he went on the training  course  and did the 
Ref: DRN07041452test. Virgin  has said that it felt that there  were no grounds  for taking the matter  further  as 
there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success,  so Mr W hasnt lost out.
Having considered what has happened here and having listened to the calls its clear  that Mr 
W doesnt dispute  he went on the training and did the test. So I think Mr W hasnt lost out 
due to Virgins position on this matter. I think that even if it had gone  through  the chargeback  
process to the end its likely that it would have been  unsuccessful considering the 
circumstances here.  So Mr W hasnt lost out in how Virgin treated him in relation  to the 
chargeback.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Ws credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in certain 
circumstances, he has an equal  right to claim against Virgin  as he does against the training 
company if theres  been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the training company. 
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  in 
place. Having considered the circumstances Im satisfied that the appropriate relationship is 
in place. Ive also considered the financial limit requirements of the Act in relation to what 
happened here. Im satisfied on balance the financial limits of section  75 have been met. 
Was there breach  or misrepresentation
Mr W accepts  he did the training and the test but feels that the training wasnt  very good  and 
that it didnt prepare him properly for the test. But it must be remembered  here that this 
complaint and indeed this decision is regarding  Mr Ws complaint  about Virgin  and what it 
did.
Virgin considered  whether  it was persuaded that there had been a breach in the contract  
between the supplier and Mr W. It looked  into the matter and could see that Mr W had been 
on the training  and did the test-which is what the supplier was contracted  to supply. So it 
didnt feel there had been a breach of contract. It also considered whether Mr W had been  
materially misrepresented  into entering the contract. But for similar reasons it felt that this 
wasnt the case as there  was no persuasive evidence that Mr W had been told anything that 
wasnt true which  had led him to buying the course  and test.
Ive considered what has happened  here. It needs to be remembered that failing the test 
doesnt mean the training  was insufficient.  That doesnt necessarily follow.  Its also worth 
noting that during the calls it is made clear that many people have gone  on this training 
course and passed  the test. So making it clear that it feels  that the course is fit for purpose.
Having considered the matter Im not persuaded Virgin has done anything  wrong by 
concluding that there was no breach or misrepresentation in this case. There  was no 
guarantee of passing the test. Mr W doesnt dispute  he did the hours of training and did the 
test. So I dont think Virgin should refund the cost of the course and test to Mr W under 
Section 75.
I can see that Virgin did pay to Mr Ws account £75 for the way it dealt with him and the 
customer service  it provided. I think thats  a fair and reasonable remedy  for what happened 
here.
Ref: DRN07041453Mr W has also complained about being  credited the money for the course and then it being  
redebited from his account. Virgin  (like many firms) has a policy of making sure its account  
holders arent out of pocket when  they have disputes such  as this. I think  thats fair. But once 
the dispute has been looked into and Virgin decided that Mr W wasnt due a refund through 
Chargeback or Section  75, then it removed the money it had covered the disputed amount 
with from his account. I think this is fair also as it had, in effect, loaned him that money 
during its investigation.
Mr W has recently pointed  to mental health issues and financial difficulties which  this service  
then raised with Virgin. Although I cannot  consider how Virgin  has treated Mr W in light of 
those issues (as he hasnt complained to it about that) I am glad to see that it took that 
information onboard when  this service brought it to its attention and said it would take the 
matters forward appropriately.
I do appreciate Mr W wont be wholly pleased by this decision. But as I said this is a decision  
about Virgin and not about  the actions of the training company.  And as I dont  think Virgin 
has done anything  wrong then I have  decided that Virgin  doesnt  have  to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Virgin  Money PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  18 December 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0704145