K820x#14complaint
Mr O and Ms W complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them  alongside a mortgage  in 2002. 
background
It appears that PPI was initially discussed  during a meeting between Mr O, Ms W and a 
mortgage broker. However, Santander  has accepted responsibility  for this sale of this policy.  
It says that the policy was sold over the phone  after the mortgage completed. This is 
consistent with what Mr O and Ms W told us in their email to our adjudicator  of 3 April 2019. 
The PPI that Mr O and Ms W bought was to cover Mr O if he lost his job. They  werent sold 
accident or sickness cover.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr O and Ms W disagreed with 
that view. So the matter  has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr O and Ms W, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why. 
I cant know what was said to Mr O and Ms W when they bought PPI. So to help me decide  
whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mr O and Ms W told us about it. Ive also 
considered the paperwork  thats available from the time.  
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr O and Ms W would have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Although  I can see that PPI 
was discussed  with the broker  when  the mortgage was discussed, Santander sold the PPI at 
a later date. With that in mind, I dont think Mr O and Ms W could have reasonably thought  
the cover  was a condition  of their mortgage. If it was a condition of their mortgage, its 
unlikely to have  been sold after that application was submitted.  I think  Mr O and Ms W would 
have probably  known they could  have refused the cover if they wanted  to. 
Santander advised Mr O and Ms W to buy this PPI cover. So it had to make sure the policy 
was suitable for their needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable,  Ive looked at what  
Mr O and Ms W told us about their circumstances at the time.  Ive also considered the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
As I said above, the cover was set up to cover Mr O only. I think  this recommendation was 
suitable as from considering the mortgage  application, his income appeared to be higher 
than Ms Ws at that time.  And Ms W has provided  us with an estimate  of her savings from 
that time,  which I accept  as accurate. So it appears  that PPI may not have been  so 
necessary to cover her at that time.  
Ref: DRN06729952The cover was for unemployment only. Again,  this was a suitable recommendation given 
that Mr O told us he had sick pay for at least a year. If hed had to make  a claim for 
unemployment, the mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months.  
I can see that Mr O had been working in his job for just over two years when he took the 
policy out. So I think the PPI is likely to have lasted  for longer than any payment Mr O would 
have received from his employer  if he was made  redundant. 
Ms W has provided  us with information about  her savings. It is not entirely clear whether  
Mr O also had savings. Even if he did, with PPI, he would have been able to use those funds  
on his other  essential  expenditure at what would have  no doubt been  a very stressful  time 
for him if he was out of work. 
I havent seen  anything unusual about Mr Os employment circumstances that would have 
stopped him from making a successful claim if he needed to. It doesnt  appear that he would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions. 
With all of this in mind, I think the cover  probably  was suitable for Mr O and Ms W. Even so, 
Santander still had to give Mr O and Ms W enough  information about the PPI so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was a good  fit for their needs. That information had to be 
fair, clear and not misleading. 
I accept its possible that Santander didnt tell Mr O and Ms W everything it should have 
done about the PPI. But Ive set out above how the policy could have  been  helpful to them if 
Mr O lost his job. And ultimately  I think they chose to buy this policy   so it looks as though  
they wanted this type of cover. It follows that I dont think  more or better information about 
the PPI would have caused them to act differently. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint  Mr O and Ms W. But I havent upheld their 
complaint. I dont require  Santander to take any action to put things right. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0672995