K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that My Pension  Expert Limited  (MPE) failed to provide him with 
appropriate advice  about taking some  pension benefits in 2013.
background
Mr R held a with-profits retirement annuity  contract. In 2013 he got in touch  with MPE to 
discuss what options he might have in terms of taking those benefits. At that time he was 
aged 63 and working part time. He explained  that he would  need  access  to a lump sum in 
the next two years due to a shortfall  in the endowment policy that would be used to repay his 
mortgage.
MPE gathered details  about Mr Rs circumstances and the options that were available to him 
 both in terms of the annuity he might receive  from his current provider, and those that were 
available on the open market. MPE hasnt been  able to provide us with a copy  of any 
suitability report that it might have prepared when  it gave  its advice  to Mr R. But a fact find 
document from the time records the recommendations  it made.
MPE advised Mr R to purchase  a fixed term annuity. That product paid Mr R the maximum 
income permitted under  the regulations at the time,  and allowed him to take a tax free 
pension commencement  lump sum (PCLS) of just over £17,000.  The annuity was set up to 
run for a period of five years.  At the end of that period Mr R would be guaranteed  a maturity 
amount that could  be used to purchase  a further annuity. Mr R paid a fee, equivalent  to 4% 
of the value of his transferred fund,  to MPE for the advice hed received.
MPE noted that the option it had recommended to Mr R was appropriate because it allowed 
him to maximise  his pension income when he was young enough to enjoy that income. It 
noted Mr Rs concerns that the annuity  rates  at that time were low, and so it might  not be 
beneficial to lock in a lifetime  commitment.  When the annuity reached  the end of the five 
year period,  the future  income that Mr R could achieve based on the maturity amount was 
significantly lower than had been  proposed in 2013.  So he complained  to MPE about the 
advice hed received.
When MPE considered  that complaint it didnt conclude that the advice it had given to Mr R 
was inappropriate. But it did note that it had failed to take account of some information that 
had been provided by Mr Rs pension savings  provider.  So although not taking account of 
that additional information didnt  result in any loss to Mr R, MPE offered  to refund half the 
advice fee that he had originally paid. Mr R didnt accept that offer and brought  his complaint 
to this Service.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that the 
advice MPE  had given  to Mr R had been appropriate. Without any suitability report he 
couldnt determine on what basis MPE  had made  its recommendation, and he couldnt  say 
that Mr R had been given sufficient information  about the risks of the approach he took.  He 
didnt think, given that this was Mr Rs primary source of income  in retirement,  that taking a 
fixed term annuity was appropriate for Mr R. So he asked MPE to pay Mr R some  
compensation.
After our adjudicator had issued his recommendation  Mr R used the maturity funds available 
to purchase a lifetime  annuity. That meant  that the redress our adjudicator had proposed  
Ref: DRN09985922needed to be updated. He wrote  to both parties earlier this year with those updated  
recommendations. Neither  party provided  him with any further  comments.
But MPE doesnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation  that the complaint should be 
upheld. So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally, it has been  passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process. If Mr R accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr R and by MPE. Where the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts, I have  made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
MPE hasnt  been  able to provide us with a copy of a suitability report that might  explain  the 
reasons it made its recommendation to Mr R. And that report  also should have highlighted to 
Mr R the risks that he might be taking  in following the advice that MPE provided. I have no 
reason to think that MPE  has deliberately withheld that document  from our investigation.  It 
might well be that it has simply been  lost. But it also wouldnt be reasonable for me to ignore 
the possibility  that this document wasnt produced  for Mr R and so he was left poorly  
informed about  the decision he was taking.
I think it would be fair to say, from the evidence that has been presented to me, that Mr R 
was relatively inexperienced in financial matters of this nature. So he would have been 
heavily reliant on the information and advice he received from MPE about the options 
available to him. And he would also have been heavily influenced  by any commentary MPE 
provided to him on matters such as current annuity  rates, and whether or not those rates  
might change in the future.
As I said earlier,  Mr R was still working at the time he took advice from MPE.  So it doesnt 
seem he needed  to maximise the income  that he would receive  from his pension. I accept 
that at that time his expenditure might  have been a little higher, since  he still had two years 
remaining on his mortgage, but the income  that MPE recorded  Mr R as earning was 
substantially more than the pension income  he received.
It seems  that these pension savings  would form the only income Mr R had in retirement 
other than his state pension. So it was important that the income he received provided for 
the whole  of his retirement. The fixed term annuity  that MPE recommended  resulted in the 
amount Mr R had available to purchase  an annuity  being depleted  by more than a quarter in 
Ref: DRN09985923just five years. And so, when Mr R looked to purchase a new annuity at the end of the initial  
five year term, it would  be likely  that the income  available to him would reduce significantly.
Without knowing what Mr R was told about the likely future reduction in income I find it 
difficult to conclude that Mr R would have thought it reasonable to take such a high income 
in the early years  particularly when the evidence I have suggests that this might  not have 
been needed at that time.  It doesnt  seem to me that it was reasonable for MPE to 
recommend that Mr R follow that approach  simply in the hope,  or expectation, that annuity  
rates might be better  in five years  time.
I think that Mr Rs needs  in 2013 were  relatively straightforward. He wanted to access  some 
of his pension  savings as a PCLS in order to meet a likely  shortfall  on his mortgage 
endowment policy.  And then he wanted  to use the remainder of his pension savings to 
secure an income that would provide for him, and his wife, throughout their retirement. I think 
that the approach MPE recommended failed to meet the latter of those, and placed a 
significant amount  of unnecessary risk on Mr Rs future security.  So I cannot conclude  this 
was a suitable recommendation and so it follows  that Mr Rs complaint should  be upheld.
putting things right
As I said earlier,  our adjudicator wrote to both parties earlier this year to set out the basis on 
which he thought  fair compensation should be calculated. I agree with the recommendations 
that our adjudicator  made,  and so the compensation I am directing  follows  the same 
principles. 
My aim is to put Mr R into the position he would  be in now, but for MPEs inappropriate 
advice. I consider it reasonable to assume that had he been advised  appropriately,  he would 
have purchased a lifetime  annuity.  I consider it reasonable to use the quote obtained by 
MPE in October 2013 as the basis of the calculation. The basis  of that annuity was level 
income, 50% spouses benefit, payable monthly with no guarantee. Based on a purchase 
price of £52,500, the income figure quoted  was £3,218.16. Therefore, the gross income 
payable on a purchase price of £50,383.44 (after allowing for the advice fee agreed with 
MPE) would  have been £3,088.42.  
Part A - Past  gain  
MPE should compare  the income Mr R has received less the income he would have 
received up to the date of maturity of the fixed term annuity. I dont believe any tax should be 
deducted from that income unless Mr R provides  evidence that he has paid tax on some of 
his annuity income.  I expect this part of the calculation  will result  in a gain to Mr R. 
Part B - Future loss 
MPE should calculate the cost, as at the date of maturity of the fixed term annuity,  of 
purchasing an open  market lifetime  annuity,  arranged on the above basis, paying £3,088.42, 
taking account  of Mr Rs medical conditions, less the maturity  value of the fixed term annuity.  
On the assumption  that Mr R is likely  to pay little or no tax on his annuity income in the 
future, I dont believe any deduction should  be made for tax. 
MPE should calculate the net gain/loss  from these two calculations.
Ref: DRN09985924If Mr R has suffered a loss overall  MPE  should pay that sum to him with interest at 8% 
simple from the date of maturity of the fixed term annuity to the date of payment of redress.  
HM Revenue & Customs  requires MPE  to take off tax from this interest. MPE must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. 
In addition, I consider  that MPE  should pay Mr R compensation of £200  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this disruption  to Mr Rs retirement planning. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct My Pension Expert Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0998592