K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that following surgery AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) treated a post-
operative check-up  as a consultation.
background
Mr F has private  medical  insurance (PMI) through a group policy with AXA. The policy 
provides each member  with cover for two out-patient consultations a year. Mr F had an 
operation on his right foot on 7 November 2018.  Following his surgery  he saw his consultant  
on 21 November 2018. Hes unhappy that AXA treated  this as a specialist  consultation, 
which he was charged for, rather than as a post-operative check-up included in the cost of 
his surgery.
Mr F complained to AXA who said the terms and conditions of the group scheme clearly set 
out the each member is entitled to two specialist consultations a year.  And that the terms 
and conditions also make  it clear that it wont pay a separate fee for any consultation within 
ten days of surgery.  
As Mr F had seen his consultant more than ten days after his surgery,  AXA said his fee had 
been correctly  charged  as a specialist consultation.  So AXA didnt uphold  his complaint.
Mr F then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case  and agreed the 
follow-up appointment  was required  as a direct result of Mr Fs surgery.  But she said the 
policy defined surgery as the operation itself, which doesnt include any follow-up 
consultations. So Mr Fs appointment  with his consultant on 21 November 2018 wasnt  
considered part of his procedure, and AXA had correctly classed it as a consultation.  
Mr F didnt  accept our investigators opinion  so the case has come  to me for a decision.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The group policy Mr F is a member of covers him in full for the cost of surgery carried  out at 
an approved hospital,  by an approved specialist.  The policy sets out a list of what  is covered 
by in-patient and day-patient hospital  fees. This doesnt include follow-up  appointments. AXA 
can provide full out-patient cover but that wasnt selected by the group administrator.
The policy includes  a definition of surgery, which is an operation  or other  invasive surgical 
intervention. So for the purposes  of the policy its the operation  itself,  and doesnt  include 
any follow-up appointments.
Ive listened to the call Mr F made to AXA for authorisation of his surgery.  His surgery was 
authorised but he was reminded  that hed already used his two out-patient  consultations for 
the year. So AXA made  it clear to Mr F before  he had his surgery  that hed be required to 
pay for any consultation.
The policy also states that it doesnt  cover  any specialist appointment within ten days of 
surgery, as AXA expect  this to be covered in the fee agreed  with the consultant.  But 
Ref: DRN06905732Mr F saw his consultant  14 days after his surgery, so this wouldnt apply to his appointment. 
As Mr Fs follow-up appointment wasnt covered in the cost of his surgery I think it was 
correctly charged as a consultation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Fs complaint 
against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019. 
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0690573