K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains, through a claims management  company  (CMC),  that Lloyds  Bank PLC gave 
her unsuitable  investment  advice as the investment  she was recommended  was too risky.
background
In May 1996  Mrs N invested  £4,200  in a Personal  Equity Plan into the UK Growth  Fund   
identified as a medium risk investment - based  on advice she was given. She invested a further 
£200 each month into the same investment from October 1996 until May 2000 - again based  on 
advice she received from Lloyds. She surrendered the investment in November 2000.
Lloyds didnt uphold  her complaint. In short it said that it was satisfied Mrs N was prepared to 
take a medium  risk with her investments as she selected this risk on more than one occasion. 
It also noted that she had invested further money  in risk based investments later, in 2001 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but also didnt think  it should be upheld. 
He said the investment initially  chosen  by Mrs N in 1996 adequately matched the identified  
medium risk attitude. He also thought Mrs N was in a position to invest £4,200 in a medium 
risk investment so didnt  think  the advice to invest this initial  amount was unsuitable.  He also 
didnt think the further £200 each month she was advised to invest  was unsuitable given she 
still had £35,000  in cash savings.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said there shouldve  been further diversification 
and a lower level of risk. It didnt  think the existing investment  in shares  Mrs N had gave her 
any meaningful  investment experience  especially given their acquisition  was as a result of a 
sell-off at significant discount to their true value.
As Mrs N didnt  agree with the adjudicator the matter  has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is worth reminding the parties  that my findings are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what is more likely than not  based  on the evidence provided by the parties. 
So I am not saying  what definitely did or didnt  happen  and it is possible that something 
different to what I find actually occurred.
There is limited  evidence  available  given the time since the investments by Mrs N were made. 
But Lloyds has provided a copy of both fact finds completed in 1996 - which  broadly contain  
the same  information.  It can be seen  from the May 1996 fact find that Mrs N had a significant 
amount in savings  (just short of £44,000) at the time of seeing the adviser.  And that of this 
£8,000 was in a Tax Exempt  Special  Savings Account (TESSA) that had just matured.
The adviser recommended that Mrs N invest £4,200  of the money from the TESSA  in a PEP 
to be invested  in the UK Growth Fund with the balance to be invested in another TESSA.  
The UK Growth fund is identified as a medium risk fund in the funds guide that Lloyds  has 
provided. I note that this is from a couple of years later as the guide from 1996 isnt 
available. But I think it is likely that the information  in the later guide is broadly the same as 
the guide that wouldve  been available in 1996.
Ref: DRN02698722The funds guide  describes a medium risk investment as one that invests primarily in UK 
stocks and shares, with some fixed interest securities and overseas  investments. The aims 
of the UK Growth fund are described  as:
to provide long term capital growth through  a wide range of UK ordinary shares.
Given this Im satisfied that the UK Growth  fund was properly identified as a medium  risk fund.
I have considered whether the advice  to invest in the PEP was unsuitable because the UK 
Growth fund was too risky for Mrs N. I note that Lloyds  has referred to her having selected 
medium risk on three separate occasions  and because  of this it said it was satisfied she was 
prepared to take a medium risk with her money.  
But the only questions  about risk within the fact find simply give a choice between  selecting 
some risk  which is ticked - and all capital safe. This isnt enough  to be able to say that 
Mrs N chose to invest  in a medium risk investment.
But I have also seen  no persuasive evidence that she wasnt  prepared to take a medium risk 
with her investment.  The CMCs argument  in support of medium risk being unsuitable is 
largely based on Mrs Ns lack of investment experience.
I accept she had little investment  experience,  as Lloyds  acknowledged in its Final  Response 
Letter. But just because  Mrs N had limited investment experience doesnt automatically 
mean she wasnt prepared to take a medium risk with her money.  
Im mindful the amount  initially invested was only a small  part of her available capital  less 
than 10% - and the subsequent monthly payments of £200  each  month were from excess 
income leaving Mrs Ns capital intact.
And although the CMC has said the investment bond she was invested in was a fixed 
interest bond  so wouldnt have given her experience  of stock market-based investments  
she also had small amounts of shares in various companies as a result of privatisations by 
the government. 
I note the CMC has suggested  these didnt give her any significant investment experience 
given the way they were acquired.  But the fact find shows these had been held for over 10 
years and I think it is more likely than not that Mrs N wouldve been  aware  of fluctuations  in 
their value over that time. So I think it is more likely than not she will have been aware of the 
sort of risks the UK Growth fund wouldve  had.
The other issue that has been  raised by the CMC is with regard to the lack of diversification 
in the investment made by Mrs N. I dont think  this is an issue with the first lump sum 
investment of £4,200 given this was only a small part of Mrs Ns overall savings. It is also of 
note that the adviser did consider the diversity  of what Mrs N invested  in at the time because  
the fact find recorded that he recommended that Mrs N invest  half of the proceeds of the 
TESSA in the PEP and the other half in another TESSA.
Ref: DRN02698723With regard to the further investment of £200  each month into the PEP, as this was from 
surplus income not part of Mrs Ns capital Im not satisfied that this means too much was 
invested in the PEP. Mrs N still had a significant amount of capital  in savings and I think 
investing this amount  from income  each month into the same  investment didnt mean  too 
much of her money was invested  in one investment.
In summary  I have seen  no persuasive evidence that the lump sum investment  of £4,200 or 
the subsequent monthly  investment of £200  was unsuitable for Mrs Ns need  for capital 
growth over the medium to long term. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reason I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0269872