K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained  about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) has offered him in relation  to the mis-sale of a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  sold alongside a MasterCard  credit card.
background
In 2018 Mr S complained to Barclays that he had been mis-sold PPI. 
Barclays looked into Mr Ss concerns and responded saying that it didnt think  it had mis-
sold him PPI.
But Barclays  explained that Mr S was owed  some compensation in relation to the level of 
commission and profit share it received  on his PPI policy.  This was because the financial 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  had issued new rules and guidance 
about how businesses  should handle PPI complaints following a Supreme Court case. 
Barclays explained it got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - that it should  have  told Mr S about. Because  it didnt tell Mr S, this created 
an unfair relationship.  To put things  right, Barclays offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.  Barclays  offer of 
compensation to Mr S totalled £759.79.
Unhappy with Barclays response, and as Mr S remained of the opinion PPI was mis-sold, 
he referred the matter  to our service.
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr S concerns about the sale of his PPI policy and 
considered it was mis-sold.
Barclays responded agreeing that PPI had been  mis-sold.  But Barclays  explained  that 
Mr S had successfully claimed  under the PPI policy. And the amounts  he received for his 
claims were  more  than what he had paid in premiums for the policy.  So it said Mr S was 
not due any compensation for being  mis-sold PPI.
Our adjudicator looked at what Barclays had said and thought  it was fair for Barclays  to 
deduct the claim amounts from Mr Ss compensation. So he considered  Mr S wasnt  
owed anything further. 
Mr S says he didnt claim under the policy and there must be some confusion  between 
the insurer and Barclays.
As Mr S disagreed and as the matter hasnt been resolved, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to clarify this complaint reference and my decision relate  to Mr Ss 
MasterCard credit card PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN09377732Barclays, following our services  involvement,  has now agreed  it mis-sold PPI to Mr S, so Im 
not looking at how the policy was sold. I will look at whether it is fair for Barclays to deduct 
the claim amounts  from Mr Ss offer of compensation.
can Barclays deduct a successful claim from Mr Ss PPI compensation?
When a business  agrees,  or I decided, that a PPI policy has been  mis-sold Id expect it to 
put the consumer in the financial position theyd  be in if they hadnt  taken  it out (so far as is 
possible). 
When working out how to do this on a credit card like Mr Ss, Id expect  Barclays  to refund 
the PPI premiums and any credit  card interest or associated charges caused by the PPI. Id 
also expect Barclays to compensate the consumer for any periods where theyd been out of 
pocket. This should be at 8% simple interest  per year after 1993. 
Having looked  at Barclays offer of compensation it includes everything I would expect to 
see.
But, as Ive said above, and this is important  in Mr Ss case, to compensate Mr S, Id expect 
Barclays to put him in the position hed be in had he not taken out the policy.  
Had Mr S not taken out PPI, he wouldnt have had to pay for it, but at the same  time he 
wouldnt have benefitted from the claim amounts. 
So I think its fair for Barclays to deduct  the amount of any successful claims on the policy 
from the mis-sale compensation. 
It wouldnt be fair for Mr S to have received the benefit of the claim amounts and then also 
receive back all the money he had paid in premiums.
Because Mr Ss claims totalled more than his PPI compensation, I dont think  Barclays need  
to do anything further.
I appreciate that Mr S says that he didnt make any claims, but Barclays  has provided  
evidence from the insurer of the PPI policy, which shows details of the claim and the 
amounts. Having looked at the information  provided, I have no reason to doubt it and Im 
satisfied that the claims were made  and have seen evidence that the payments were applied  
to the MasterCard  account.
Mr S has said that he held a Monument  Visa card account which  was transferred to Barclays  
and maybe there is some confusion from the insurer about  the claim. I understand why Mr S 
thinks this, given the Monument Visa card having  a similar name to the insurer.  But as 
explained the records show that the claim was in relation to Mr Ss MasterCard  and it was 
that account where the payments were made to, not the Monument  Visa card account.
I also note that Barclays  paid Mr S some  compensation  for the unfair  level of commission 
and profit share it received.  Mr S received over £750. I think this is generous  and Barclays 
wasnt obliged to pay this to Mr S. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN09377733The FCA provided guidance and rules on how businesses should  approach  compensation 
for PPI when a consumer  complains about the sale of PPI. It referred  to a two-step 
approach. 
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
So the rules say that a business  doesnt  need to consider the commission (and profit share)  
charged if it upheld  the consumers  complaint that PPI had been  mis-sold (step  1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer  wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they did and offers  to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission (step 2).
As the complaint about the sale of the PPI was eventually looked into and upheld  - albeit 
with no compensation  due Mr S (due to the successful claim amounts), Barclays had fulfilled 
its obligation under  step 1 and didnt need to go on consider step 2. This means  Barclays  
didnt need to pay any compensation regarding the unfair level of commission  it received. 
However, it has done so  and it appears  the cheque was paid back in late 2018. All things  
considered that seems  a more than fair way to resolve this complaint. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr S but I hope  I have  been able to explain our approach 
to compensation  for mis-sold PPI and why I think it was fair for Barclays  to deduct  the claim 
amounts from the compensation Mr S was owed. 
I also hope that I have been able to explain to Mr S why I consider  he has benefited  from 
receiving some compensation for the level of commission  and profit share Barclays received 
 when the rules  and guidance suggests  Barclays didnt have to pay this to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0937773