K820x#14Complaint
Ms H complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal)  wont  refund her for a 
handbag that she considers wasnt as described  by the seller.
Background
Ms H purchased a handbag for US$3,665 online  using her PayPal account. 
Ms H says that when  she received the handbag,  she was disappointed to find that the 
handbag wasnt  in excellent  condition  she says the gold hardware on the bag was 
damaged and that the bottom  of the handbag  had no support. Eighty-nine  days  after the 
item was delivered, she made a claim for a refund from the seller and subsequently to 
PayPal under its Buyer Protection  Program  as she felt the handbag was Significantly Not as 
Described (SNAD).
PayPal refused to issue a refund. It said that, given the delay between the delivery of the 
handbag to Ms H and her claim, PayPal wasnt able to determine  when the damage  to the 
handbag had occurred. It also said that claims under the Buyer Protection Program arent  
guaranteed to be paid.
Ms H then referred her complaint to our service and provided pictures of the handbag. 
One of our investigators  looked at all the evidence and thought that Ms Hs complaint should 
be upheld. But, after PayPal disagreed with the outcome, the complaint  was referred to me 
for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February  2020.   I said that the Buyer  Protection 
Programme didnt guarantee a refund and I didnt think PayPal had treated Ms H unfairly or 
unreasonably in exercising its discretion to refuse a refund in the particular circumstances of 
this case.
PayPal had nothing  further to add. But, Ms H responded  to say that she felt strongly that the 
seller had misrepresented the condition of the handbag. She said the seller  had said that 
gold hardware was in excellent condition and she had only used the bag on 5 occasions  
this couldnt be true based on the condition of the handbag on delivery. 
Ms H also provided a copy of a report she had obtained as evidence  from a handbag repair 
business and sent to PayPal. She said that PayPal had initially  agreed  the bag had been 
mis-sold to her but later refused to make  a refund based on the length of time it had taken 
her to make a claim  and repeatedly asked  her to submit the same  evidence again. She says 
this cant be fair. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
I cant uphold Ms Hs complaint and for essentially the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN05224062PayPal operates  a Buyer Protection Program. This provides that in certain circumstances a 
buyer who has used  PayPal to pay for goods can ask PayPal for a refund. Broadly this is 
where goods are SNAD  or if goods paid for are not received.  
The relevant  part of the terms  and conditions say:
Your purchase is Significantly Not as Described if it is materially different from the 
last description of it that you received  from the Payment Recipient before you paid for 
it (which, for exclusively online purchases, shall be taken to be the Payment 
Recipients description of the purchase  in the relevant online listing) (Purchase 
Description). Here are some  non-exhaustive examples:
a. You received  a completely different item.  For instance, you purchased  a 
book and received  a DVD or an empty box or the software that you received 
was not the software that was sold to you.
b. The condition of your purchase was misrepresented. For instance, the 
listing for an item said new and the item was used.
c. Your purchase was advertised  as authentic  but is not authentic.
d. Your purchase is missing major parts or features and the fact that these 
parts or features  are missing was not disclosed in the listing.
e. You purchased  3 items from a Payment Recipient but received only 2.
f. Your purchase was damaged during  postage.
The program allowed  for claims to be made within 6 months. Importantly, as I said in my 
provisional decision, the Buyer Protection Program doesnt guarantee a refund and sets out 
that refunds  are at the discretion of PayPal. But PayPal still has to treat Ms H fairly in 
exercising its discretion. So Ive looked to see if PayPal did this.
I know that PayPal  asked Ms H for evidence from the handbag repair business on several  
occasions despite Ms H providing this initially when making her claim.  That must have been  
frustrating and time consuming for her. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that PayPal 
agreed that it would  make  her a refund and reneged on that. So I cant  uphold the complaint 
on that basis.
The handbag was listed as a used  item and described in the sellers advert as follows:
The exterior leather is in excellent condition with light corner  wear,  there  is no any 
other flaw on the bag. The gold hardware is in an excellent condition. The interior 
lining is in good condition with no major damage
Ive looked very carefully at the pictures  of the handbag that accompanied the sellers advert 
and the pictures  Ms H has provided of the handbag after it was delivered to her. 
There are two areas of damage to the handbag  that Ms H has highlighted as part of her 
claim for a refund the support to the bottom  of the handbag and the wear  and tear to the 
gold hardware.  The report that Ms H has obtained from the handbag repair  business  doesnt 
indicate when  this damage was caused.
Ref: DRN05224063Ive not been presented with enough evidence about the bottom  support to the handbag  to 
conclude whether this damage was likely to have been present before the handbag was 
delivered to Ms H. In any event, there  is no specific mention of the condition of the bottom  
support in the advert and the handbag is described as being  in used condition. So, Im not 
persuaded that the damage  to the bottom  support is enough for me to ask PayPal make  a 
refund to Ms H under the Buyer Protection Program. 
Similarly, its difficult to know  whether the damage  to the gold hardware that can be clearly  
seen in the pictures that Ms H has provided was caused before or after the delivery of the 
handbag to Ms H. The quality  of the sellers  pictures dont allow  me to see the gold hardware 
in detail. But, on close inspection, some wear and tear can be seen on the middle  clasp  in 
the sellers pictures.  So, I think that at least some of the damage to the gold hardware was 
more likely than not present  on the handbag before it was delivered to Ms H. And based on 
this, I think the sellers written description  of the handbag may have misrepresented the gold 
hardware when she said it was in excellent  condition.
But its not clear cut. And I think its fair to say that Ms H was aware that she was purchasing 
a used handbag  not a brand new handbag.
Also, I dont think it was unfair for PayPal to take account of the fact that Ms H took almost 
three months to seek a refund  from the seller. That is a long delay  and I dont think  its 
unreasonable for PayPal to say that, given the delay,  the damage  to the handbag may have 
been caused after delivery to Ms H. 
Ms H says she delayed making a claim despite  noticing the damage  on delivery of the 
handbag because she wanted  to keep the handbag and see if the damage could be made 
good. She says that at one point  she travelled  for three hours  to a store to investigate this. I 
accept that Ms H may have been keen  on retaining  the bag and the fact that she went to the 
trouble of travelling  to the store to see if some  repair work could be carried out suggests that, 
at the very least, some of the damage  may have  been worse than she had expected.  
But I also think its fair to say that the delay indicates that the condition of the handbag may 
not have been significantly different to that which Ms H expected when she purchased the 
bag. Had it been  significantly  different,  I would have expected her to contact the seller  first 
(and soon  after receiving the handbag) and certainly  before incurring time and travel  costs.
PayPal has cited the following  provisions of its terms and conditions in support of its refusal 
to issue a refund:
Your purchase is not Significantly  Not as Described (SNAD) if it is not materially  
different from the Purchase Description. Here are some non-exhaustive examples:
a. The defect in your purchase  was correctly described by the Payment 
Recipient.
b. Your purchase was correctly described but you didn't  want it after you 
received it.
c. Your purchase was correctly described  but did not meet  your expectations.
Ref: DRN05224064d. The item that you purchased has minor scratches  and was listed  as used 
condition.
e. An event you purchased tickets to was postponed.
Example d. possibly  applies here - the handbag has minor scratches but was listed as being 
in used condition.  In any event, the examples are non-exhaustive and the crucial  point is that 
PayPal has decided that the handbag wasnt SNAD at the time of delivery despite what 
Ms H now says about the condition of the handbag.  
Im sure Ms H is of the view that the scratches  and wear  and tear to the gold hardware are 
more than minor  especially for a high value  item such as this - and that the sellers 
reference to the gold hardware  being  in excellent condition  misrepresented the handbag. Im 
sympathetic to her arguments and my view is that this complaint is very finely  balanced. But, 
given the overall  circumstances  Ive outlined above  and the fact that the Buyer Protection  
Program isnt a guarantee, I dont think PayPal has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
concluding that the handbag wasnt SNAD. On that basis, I dont think its fair to ask PayPal 
to refund Ms H for the cost of the handbag.
My final decision
I know Ms H will be disappointed with my findings  but I dont uphold her complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0522406