K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card application form completed at the 
time. I think its likely  the selection of PPI on the form was computerised  but I think its more 
likely than not that this was added following a discussion. Mr S has signed the form, which  
indicates he wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Mr S was taking out further  credit, if he 
didnt want the PPI, I would have expected him to raise this before he signed the application.  
So having  taken everything into account,  I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr S didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. I think that Mr S 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr S has told us he would receive employee 
benefits if he wasnt able to work. but the policy could  have paid out for up to 12 months  in 
the event of a successful  claim if he was too ill to work, and up to 10 months  in the event he 
lost his job. And the policy would have paid out over and above any employee benefits Mr S 
may have  received so they could  have been  used  for other financial outgoings, so I think  
Mr S would have found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said including him being able to rely upon his family if 
he needed financial help.  But their own circumstances  could  change  so I dont think their 
offer could have  been relied  upon.  Mr S has also said that he had some savings he could 
have used. But the policy would have meant that those savings would  have remained intact 
and to be used  for their original purpose  or other financial emergencies, so Mr Ss points 
dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mr S paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr S back some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN09619052Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr S, if it hasnt already done so, now 
Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019..
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0961905