K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  the operation of their buy to let mortgage with UCB Home  
Loans Corporation  Ltd.
background
Mr and Mrs D have had their mortgage  for many years. There was a dispute around some  
payments to the mortgage and whether or not they were in arrears around 2012,  which  was 
previously dealt with by the Financial Ombudsman  Service. As a result  of that complaint, it 
was agreed that there was a shortfall  on Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage of around £2,000 and it 
was agreed that they would gradually reduce  that amount by overpaying each month.
Mr and Mrs D paid around £30 per month extra, and by 2017 the outstanding amount had 
reduced significantly. UCB then looked at the balance of their account. The mortgage is 
interest only, but wasnt on course  to have reduced to the agreed interest only balance by 
the end of the term. So UCB increased  the monthly payment to make sure that happened.
Mr and Mrs D complained  about the increase  in their monthly  payment. They also 
complained that the interest rate on their mortgage  was too high  and, in particular, that it 
hadnt reduced when the Bank  of England  base  rate fell, as theyd expected  it would. But it 
later increased when base rate increased in 2018.
UCB explained why the monthly payments had increased. And it said the interest rate on Mr 
and Mrs Ds mortgage was a variable rate, not a base rate tracker.  It didnt follow  the base 
rate, and while UCB took into account  the base rate, it was able to increase  or reduce the 
rate at its discretion according to the terms and conditions  of the mortgage.
Our investigator thought that the terms of the mortgage offer that dealt with the interest rate 
were confusing and unclear.  She thought they did suggest that the interest rate tracked base 
rate. So she said Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage  should be adjusted  as if that was what had 
happened, and the resulting  overpayments refunded to them.  And she said UCB should pay 
Mr and Mrs D £250 compensation. But, that apart,  she thought  UCBs explanation  of what  
had happened  with the monthly payments was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs D accepted  the investigators  findings. But UCB didnt. It accepted  the wording of 
the offer could  have been more explicit  but didnt think Mr and Mrs D had been misled  or 
that the wording  suggested that the interest  rate would track base rate. And, it said,  it was up 
to their broker not UCB to ensure they understood the mortgage they were taking out. But, 
without acknowledging  anything had gone wrong,  it offered to recalculate the interest rate as 
if it had tracked base rate  but on the basis that the mortgage  balance would be reduced  
rather than the difference  being refunded to them. And it said the mortgage  would  not track 
base rate moving forward. Mr and Mrs D didnt  accept  this offer,  as they said they wanted 
the overpayments refunded  to them, rather than used to reduce the mortgage balance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator thought that the increase in the monthly payment was fair, and 
Mr and Mrs D have accepted that. As that part of their complaint is no longer an issue, 
Ref: DRN00806122therefore, Ill focus on the interest rate in this decision.  Although  this includes  a change of 
rate in 2010,  more than six years before Mr and Mrs D complained, UCB has given its 
consent for us to consider  the whole of the complaint. 
The interest rate is governed by the mortgage offer, and by the terms and conditions.
The mortgage offer says,  in respect of the interest  chargeable:
Interest charged  in the month of advance, payable with your first full monthly 
payment £823.94
36 payments at a variable  rate, currently 5.49% £819.45
Followed by
204 payments at a variable rate, currently 7.04% £1,050.32
And it describes the interest rate applicable  like this:
Your loan will be on
Buy to Let 3 Year Flexible Tracker
A tracker rate which  is variable and will be 0.74%  above the Bank  of England  base 
rate unless the Bank of England base  rate is 2.75% or less in which case the Tracker 
Rate will be 2.75% plus 0.74%.
The Tracker Rate will apply from completion until 3 years from the end of the month 
in which  you take the loan (the Benefit Period), after which our Investment Flexible  
Variable Rate, currently 7.04%, will apply for the remainder of the term. Any variation  
to the Tracker  or Investment Flexible Variable  Rate as a result of the change in the 
Bank of England  base rate will take place on the first day of the following month. 
The interest rate will be variable and will track  the Bank of England  Base Rate by the 
amount and for the period specified, providing  there is no breach of the Terms and 
Conditions or any condition in the mortgage offer. The Benefit Period may be 
removed and the Investment Flexible  Variable Rate applied instead  upon any such 
breach.
The rate will be increased or decreased on the first of the following month  after an 
announcement by the Bank  of England  to change the Base  Rate. At the end of the 
benefit period  the interest will revert to the Investment Flexible Variable Rate  for the 
remainder of the mortgage term. In the event  of the Bank of England ceasing to set a 
relevant interest  rate, we may by resolution  of our Board of Directors,  declare some 
other comparable  rate to be the Tracker  rate for the purposes of these  conditions.
The terms and conditions  say:
2.4 If these  conditions and the terms of the offer document are not consistent, the 
offer document will take priority.
Ref: DRN008061234.1 The interest rate we will charge  you will be the rate we have told you in the offer 
document. Apart from any initial fixed rate under the offer document the rate may 
change under condition 5

5.1 We may change the interest rate applicable  to the debt at any time except during 
any fixed rate period  under the offer document giving you three days  written notice of 
our intention to do so.
5.2 We will only change the interest rate for one or more of the following reasons:
(i) To respond to change or anticipated changes  in law, regulation or codes of 
practice, or to Court or Ombudsmans decisions;
(ii) To ensure we meet  all of the requirements  of the Financial Services  Authority, 
any other regulators, and any relevant monetary authority;
(iii) To reflect a change in the way the property is used or occupied in accordance 
with condition 9(vii)
(iv) To act upon our legitimate  commercial interests, including but not limited  to
a.Changes in prevailing market rates
b.Costs associated with specific  changes in relevant market conditions 
including technological changes and changes in services or facilities  
provided;
c.To reflect a change in the credit risk relating to the loan
(v) If we vary the interest rate for any other  reason, we will notify you at least 30 
days in advance  and waive any early repayment change payable  on your 
mortgage for 60 days starting on the date of the notice we send to you, to 
allow you to repay  your mortgage  without charge.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage reverted from the Tracker Rate to the Investment Flexible Variable 
Rate (IFVR) in December 2009.  At the time the IFVR was 4.99%.
The IFVR has changed since  then like this:
February 2010  increase by 0.3% to 5.29% relying on Clause 5.2 (iv) (b);
September 2018  increase by 0.25% to 5.54% relying on Clause 5.2 (iv) (a).
At the reversion date,  the Bank of England base rate was 0.5%. Since  then, it has changed  
like this:
August 2016   reduced by 0.25% to 0.25%
November 2017  increased by 0.25% to 0.5%
August 2018   increased by 0.25% to 0.75%
It can be seen, therefore, that the IFVR changed  in line with base rate in August  / September  
2018. But it rose in February 2010  when base rate didnt, and it didnt  reflect the fall in base  
rate between August 2016  and November 2017.
UCB says that this was a tracker rate for the first three years,  and after that a variable rate 
that didnt track the Bank of England base rate. It accepts that the wording of the offer could 
be more explicit that the IFVR didnt track base rate. But it doesnt think  that the wording can 
reasonably have been read as suggesting  that it did.
Ref: DRN00806124I dont agree with UCB about that. I understand that its intention  was that this mortgage 
would be on a tracker  rate for three years, and then a non-tracking variable rate thereafter. 
But I think the wording  of the offer suggests  otherwise  or, at the very least, is ambiguous, 
and I would resolve any ambiguity in Mr and Mrs Ds favour.
There are four paragraphs to the wording  about  the interest rate in the offer beneath the 
heading. The first paragraph says that a tracker rate will apply and sets the tracker margin.
The second  paragraph says that the tracker rate will apply for three years,  and will then be 
followed by the IFVR. The final sentence  of this paragraph says that where there are 
changes as a result of changes to base rate, they will take place the next month.  UCB  says 
this sentence reserves the right to make changes  to the IFVR following changes to base  
rate, but it doesnt say changes to the IFVR will follow changes to base rate. 
But I think this sentence needs  to read in the context of the passage  as a whole.  The fourth 
paragraph says The rate will be increased  or decreased  on the first of the following month  
after an announcement by the Bank  of England  to change the base rate. This says will 
note may. And it refers  to the rate  not specifically to the tracker  or the IFVR. Elsewhere 
the wording does distinguish between the Tracker Rate and the IFVR. So the use of the 
rate here suggests  the rate applicable to the whole mortgage, not to one of its parts. 
This sentence is followed by reference  to reversion to the IFVR at the end of the Benefit 
Period. But that sentence  doesnt appear  to me to qualify the one that comes  before. 
The third paragraph  again says the interest  rate, not the Tracker  Rate or the IFVR, will 
track the Bank of England base rate by the amount and for the period specified. There  is no 
amount or period  specified for the IFVR, only for the Tracker Rate. UCB says this means  
that the IFVR doesnt track the base rate  only the Tracker Rate  does. But equally it could 
mean that the Tracker  Rate has a pre-determined  margin which runs for three years,  and 
then the IFVR takes over and continues to track for the rest of the term  with, therefore,  no 
need for a Benefit Period.
All of this is to say that I think the wording in the offer does say that the interest rate will track 
the Bank of England base  rate for the whole term of the mortgage  with an initial Benefit 
Period where the margin  is 0.74% and a 2.75%  floor, and thereafter tracking from a higher 
starting point and with no floor.
If Im wrong about that, I think the wording of the offer is at the least ambiguous,  for the 
same reasons. And I would resolve  the ambiguity in favour of Mr and Mrs D.
Theres no tracker margin specified once the mortgage reverts to the IFVR. But the offer 
wording does, to my mind,  say that once  the reversion happens it will track  the base rate 
thereafter. 
UCB increased the rate in 2018  in line with a change to base rate  which  is envisaged in 
the offer. But the 2010 increase was independent of any change in base rate. UCB relies  on 
clause 5.2 (iv) (b) here. And I note that the mortgage  offer says at its start that the terms and 
conditions will apply. 
But the terms say that where the offer conflicts with the terms and conditions, the offer will 
take precedence. Ive said that the offer indicates that the interest rate  both Tracker Rate, 
Ref: DRN00806125and IFVR  will track the Bank of England base rate. If its increased independently of the 
base rate, it no longer does that. And nothing  in the offer wording qualifies the operation of 
tracking to say that in certain circumstances the rate can be increased  other  than because  of 
changes to base  rate or that the interest  rate can be changed for other reasons. In my view, 
the offer says that the mortgage  interest rate will track the Bank of England base rate, with a 
change at the end of the initial Benefit Period. I think a change for different reasons  at a 
different time is in conflict  with that, and so the offer takes priority.
I therefore dont  think it was fair for UCB to have increased the interest  rate in February 
2010. And I dont think it was fair for UCB  not to have reduced the rate in August 2017. If the 
IFVR tracked base rate in accordance with the terms of the offer, I think this should have 
been the interest rates applicable to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage:
Reversion  date to 31 August 2016  4.99%
1 September  2016 to 30 November 2017  4.74%
1 December 2017 to 31 August 2018   4.74%
1 September  2018 onwards  5.24%
UCB says that it will apply the IFVR to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage as it intended in future  
that is, it will not track the base rate  because its now explained what the offer wording was 
always intended to mean. I dont  think  thats  fair. I dont  think  UCB can reasonably  change  
the term of the mortgage from what it says to what it intended it to say because  it has 
explained what it intended. The mortgage should operate  on the basis  of what  the applicable 
documents actually  say, not what the parties  wanted  them  to say. UCB will therefore need to 
put arrangements in place to ensure that Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage interest rate continues  to 
track the Bank of England base rate.
I think fair redress  would  be for UCB to re-work Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage  as if those rates 
had applied. It will need to re-calculate  the monthly payments they would have made  from 
time to time, and refund  the amounts theyve overpaid each month. In calculating the refund 
it can take account of the £30 overpayment they made each month from 2012 to 2017. 
Finally, I agree that Mr and Mrs D have  been  caused distress by the mortgage not operating 
as they expected it would,  and I agree £250 is fair compensation for that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct UCB 
Home Loans Corporation Ltd to:
Re-work Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage  so that it tracks the Bank  of England  base rate, 
with the historic rates Ive set out above;
Refund to Mr and Mrs D the amount theyve overpaid each month,  less the 
overpayments made  between 2012 and 2017; 
Add simple annual interest of 8% to the refunded overpayments,  running from the 
date of payment  to the date of refund*; and
Pay Mr and Mrs D £250 compensation.
Ref: DRN00806126Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If UCB considers it should  deduct income  tax from the interest  element  of my award  it may 
do so, but should give Mr and Mrs D the appropriate documentation, if they ask for it, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if theyre  entitled  to do so.
Ref: DRN0080612