K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his current account without explanation 
and unnecessarily delayed transferring the funds which were in his account when it was 
closed.
background
Mr F had a current  account with Barclays which they closed in August 2018. 
Mr Fs income  (UK government pensions) was all paid directly  into that account. The 
remaining balance was just above  £1,600 when the account was closed.
Mr F lives outside  the UK and has no intention to return. At the time the account was closed, 
he had no other source of income.  There is no system of social  benefit  or support in the 
country where he lives.  
Because hes not in the UK, Mr F also struggled to open another account into which his 
pensions could be paid  and into which his remaining  balance  with Barclays  could be paid.
He says that in effect this left him without any means to support himself for several  months. 
He had to rely on charity  from friends  and associates,  which he says was degrading and 
affected his reputation.
Mr F says he suffered significant stress  as a result of not knowing if and when he would 
have access to his funds. And he says it was extremely inconvenient  for him to have to 
continually chase Barclays to discuss his situation  when they appeared unwilling to offer him 
any answers or any reasonable means  to retrieve his money. 
He complained to Barclays. They said they were entitled to close Mr Fs account without 
telling him why and they gave him the required notice that they were  going to do so. Mr F 
says he never received  the letter notifying him the account was to be closed. 
I understand Barclays have now transferred Mr Fs funds to him. Hes managed to open an 
account with an on-line bank in the UK. And they offered him £100 in compensation  for his 
inconvenience.
Mr F wasnt happy with Barclays response  to his complaint so he brought it to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Barclays were  entitled to close the account  and 
gave sufficient notice.  
But she thought  Barclays caused unnecessary delays in the transfer of Mr Fs funds  and 
£100 compensation wasnt enough  for the trouble and upset Mr F experienced. 
She said Barclays should pay Mr F £500 in compensation  and also pay him 8% simple  
interest on his funds from the time the account  was closed  to the time they transferred the 
money to Mr Fs new account.  
Mr F didnt  agree. He thinks  the compensation is still far too low. And he asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN05914002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the terms and conditions Mr F signed  up to when he opened  his account, 
Barclays are entitled to close it without providing with any explanation. 
Theyre required to give him sufficient notice of their intention  to close  his account. Weve 
seen copies of the notice  letter sent to Mr F. The address  is correct  and it was sent in good 
time. Mr F says he didnt get that letter, but I cant hold Barclays  responsible for that.
I understand Mr Fs UK government pension cant be transferred into a bank account  held in 
the country in which Mr F now lives.  I cant hold Barclays  responsible  for that either. Nor can 
I blame Barclays for the fact Mr F found it difficult to open an account with another UK bank 
because hes not resident  in the UK.
It is Mr Fs choice to live where he lives. And Im not sure he can expect exactly  the same 
service from Barclays  that he might get in the UK. 
Some of Barclays processes and procedures  for example  their requirement that a 
customer prove their identity by one means  or another before Barclays  transfer  their funds  
will be more  difficult  for a customer  to comply with if he or she is several  thousand miles 
distant from any Barclays branch.
All of that said, Mr F contacted Barclays as soon as he realised his account had been 
closed. And his funds  werent transferred until several months later.
Some of this delay  may be due to Mr F not having  another account for some  time. But some  
of it does appear to be due to Barclays being  unreasonably inflexible after Mr F explained  his 
circumstances to them.
For example, Mr F received at least one communication asking him to turn up in a branch 
with identification  documents.  
I can understand that might be the usual  process   and Barclays  may have needed to think  
laterally to work around it. But they knew by that time what Mr Fs circumstances  were.  They  
should have recognised that he couldnt  comply  with that requirement. Even if hed been 
willing to travel several thousand  miles,  he had no means to pay for the tickets.
In short,  Mr F was put in a very difficult position for far longer than was necessary. Barclays 
eventually managed to work around their systems  to transfer  the funds to Mr F. So it could 
be done, but they just took longer than necessary to arrive at that solution.
Mr F has been  very clear  about the effect  this had on him. I can appreciate  that being 
without any income or funds in the country he was living  in was difficult and stressful. 
Mr F has told us what might have happened to him had his friends  not been willing to help 
him. And I understand  the consequences might  have been dire. But what I have to look at is 
the actual trouble and upset Mr F suffered and not what might have happened.
Ref: DRN05914003Mr F had to depend on the charity of his local community  which would have been very 
stressful. He was understandably concerned for a period of time that he might not get 
access to his funds  at all. 
And weve seen the communications  between  Mr F and Barclays.  No doubt Mr F would  have 
found this frustrating. He had to go to some considerable trouble and effort to find someone 
at Barclays who understood his situation and appeared willing  to help him find a solution.
Taking all of that into account,  and bearing in mind that the period of stress  and uncertainty 
lasted several months, I dont think the £500  compensation  suggested  by our investigator is 
unreasonable. And I agree Barclays should pay interest on the funds  they failed to transfer 
quickly.
I know Mr F thinks the compensation should  be much higher than this. Hes suggested we 
should add a few noughts to the figure our investigator suggested.  And hes asked whether 
he should now engage a lawyer on a pro bono  basis to pursue this matter through the 
courts.
Even though  I have  considerable sympathy for the stress this situation  caused Mr F, I think 
asking Barclays to pay so much would be unreasonable and unjustifiable given  the degree of 
trouble and upset  Mr F suffered. 
I also have to be fair to both parties  and I have  to recognise that Barclays were dealing  with 
a unique and difficult situation, in which it wasnt unreasonable to ask Mr F to prove his 
identity by one means  or another.
If Mr F is unhappy  with my decision he can choose  to reject it (see below).  This leaves him 
free to pursue the matter by other means. Its not for us to advise Mr F on whether to do that 
or on whether he should ask a lawyer  to look at his case  thats matter for him.
Finally and for the sake of clarity, if Barclays have already given Mr F some compensation, 
Im not suggesting £500 in addition to that. The £500 is the total amount of compensation for 
trouble and upset  they should provide. All that should be added to that is the interest on 
Mr Fs funds  for the period between  the account  closing  and the transfer of those funds to 
Mr F.
Ref: DRN05914004my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr F:
£500 compensation for his trouble and upset;  and
interest at 8% simple  on the amount which remained in Mr Fs account  when it was 
closed, from the date of closure  to the date on which  Barclays transferred the funds 
to Mr F. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0591400