K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Emg Anglia Ltd mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
alongside a finance agreement he arranged when  buying a car.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision of July 2019. It included  
the following:
Mr D took out the PPI in 2007  during a meeting. The PPI protected his monthly finance 
payments in the event of disability or unemployment  and also provided life and critical illness 
cover. The cost of the PPI was added  to the finance upfront and attracted interest. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Emg Anglia disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld because  Mr D had a pre-existing 
medical condition,  which meant the PPI policy recommended and sold to Mr D was 
unsuitable.
While I accept Mr D had a pre-existing medical  condition, I dont think this meant the PPI 
was unsuitable  for him in his circumstances.  Ill explain why.
In September  2018, we asked Mr D about his health in 2007. He said hed been  diagnosed 
with the condition in 2006 and that, yearly  check-ups aside, he was fine. He said the 
condition didnt affect his day-to-day  life.
In December 2018 we asked Mr D for further  clarification of his condition. He repeated  that it 
had been diagnosed in 2006 and added that, although he was on long-term medication for it, 
the condition hadnt caused  him to take any time off work. 
Ive checked the policy  terms to see how claims might  have  been  affected by pre-existing 
medical conditions.  The policy  terms do say, among other things, they exclude  claims for 
conditions the insured  was diagnosed  with in the 24-month period leading up to the start 
date.
So Mr Ds condition was likely caught  by the exclusion clause.  However, the evidence 
suggests his condition, while long-term,  was nevertheless stable and wasnt  impacting on his 
work or otherwise in his daily life. From what Ive seen, there  was little reason to think  the 
condition would result  in Mr D having to claim on the PPI. That being  the case, I dont think 
the condition meant  Emg Anglias advice regarding the PPI was inappropriate.
Ive looked at how the remainder of the sale was carried out overall but havent seen 
anything else that would  lead me to believe the PPI was mis-sold to Mr D. For example, Ive 
Ref: DRN04340582seen clear evidence  to show he was given a choice about taking PPI and that he decided  to 
go ahead  with it. And, from what I know about his circumstances  in 2007:
Mr D was eligible for the cover. And he wasnt  affected by any of the other exclusions 
to, or limits  on, the PPI. 
Mr D seems to have  had a need  for the cover  he had some work 
sickness/redundancy benefits but had no other means he could have relied  on if he 
wasnt working due to disability or unemployment.  On the other hand, the PPI 
benefits were considerable and would have paid out for a significant  period of time if 
needed. I think hed have valued  the extra protection the PPI provided.
The PPI wasnt flexible, in that Mr D wouldnt have got a proportional refund of the 
premium if hed paid off the borrowing  early.  But I cant see that Mr D intended  to 
settle the finance before the end of the 60-month term when he arranged  it. So I dont 
believe this feature of the PPI meant it was wrong for him.
 
Emg Anglia also had to ensure it gave  Mr D clear  information about  the PPI to allow him to 
make an informed decision about whether to take it. As Ive said,  I think that Mr D chose to 
take it out  so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
provided useful  and affordable protection for him if something went  wrong. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr Ds lost out because  of how Emg Anglia 
sold him the PPI.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. Emg Anglia didnt respond to my provisional  decision. 
Mr D said he disagreed  with my comments that his medical condition was stable  and wasnt  
impacting on his work or otherwise in his daily life.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr D disagrees with my view of how his medical  condition  affected him and, 
in turn, affected  the suitability of the PPI he was sold.  That said, the findings  I reached in my 
provisional decision were  based largely  on his own comments  as to the effects of the 
condition. 
Ref: DRN04340583Mr D was asked on more  than one occasion about the impact of the medical condition and at 
no stage did he indicate that it significantly affect him. Although he disputes  my provisional 
findings, he hasnt  provided any new evidence in support of his view.
In the absence of any persuasive  comments or evidence to the contrary, I remain  of the 
opinion that Mr D hasnt  lost out because  of how Emg Anglia  sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0434058