K820x#14complaint
Mr S, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP lent money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr S entered into loans  with Uncle Buck in June 2013. He says that before the loans were 
provided adequate affordability  checks werent carried out. He says the amount he borrowed 
increased and the charges and interest  were excessive. He says he struggled to make the 
repayments and he shouldve been  given more help as it was clear  he was reliant on the 
loans.
Uncle Buck  says that it had evidence of providing two loans to Mr S. It says that before it 
provided the loans  it carried  out adequate  affordability checks. It says that on 29 July, Mr S 
scheduled payment  failed  and his account  went into arrears. At this time Mr S said his 
wages had been delayed and subsequently  said these wouldnt be paid until 24 August. It 
says further evidence was requested but this wasnt provided and the account was settled  
on 6 September.
Uncle Buck  says that the loans were  affordable at the time they were provided and that it 
was Mr S subsequent financial  difficulty which meant he didnt meet  the terms of the loan 
agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He didnt think it wouldve been  proportionate 
for Uncle Buck to ask for more information to check the loans were  sustainably affordable. 
He didnt think that the number of loans, amount borrowed or loan history meant Uncle  Buck 
shouldve known Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Mr S didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that Uncle  Buck continued  to lend to him 
when other  lenders wouldnt  due to his credit  history. He said that Uncle  Buck had said it 
provided two loans but his bank statements showed loans taken out for £185 on 7 June 
2013, and £355 on 1 July 2013 and multiple  payments to Uncle Buck on 27 August 2013 
and then further payments on 9 September 2013. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans  - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN05269412Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. The relevant guidance in place  when these loans were granted was provided by 
the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this set out the need to make a reasonable assessment 
of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable  manner. This refers to 
issues such as being able to the make the repayments without undue difficulties throughout 
the life of the agreement and without having  to realise security or assets. It then further sets 
out that without  undue difficulty  means without having to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S has said that his bank statements from the time show more  loans than those recorded  
by Uncle  Buck. I have  looked through the information provided and can see that loans are 
recorded on Mr S banks statements on 7 June 2013  and 1 July 2013. Uncle Buck has 
shown that it funded  a loan of £200 on 7 June and £350 on 29 July. Based  on what I have  
seen I find it reasonable  to accept that the amounts recorded in Mr S bank  statements  relate  
to these two loans. 
The first loans repayment amount was £269.90 and I can see this amount recorded on Mr S 
bank statement on 1 July 2013. The other amounts  Mr S has shown he paid to Uncle  Buck 
total £615.87. This is the same amount as Uncle Buck has said was paid in regard to the 
second loan. Based on this I havent  seen  anything to suggest there were loans other than 
the ones noted by Uncle Buck. 
Based on what I have seen I can see two loans were provided  one on 7 June 2013  and one 
on 29 June 2013  and it is these loans that are considered in this decision.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint and I agree that based  on the evidence provided 
there isnt enough  to say the loans  shouldnt have been provided. I say this because Mr S 
provided information about his income and expenditure  and based on this the loans 
appeared affordable. I dont find that based on the information received  it was required to 
carry out further checks. As there were only two loans provided I dont find that a pattern of 
borrowing had emerged at this time that wouldve shown the loans  were  unsustainable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0526941