K821x#15complaint
Mr Es complaint relates  to the handling  of a subsidence claim he made under his Aviva 
Insurance Limited buildings  insurance policy.
background
In late 2015 Mr E experienced problems with the drains at his home. He arranged  for 
drainage contractors to attend to deal with the problem. The drainage contractors  told him 
the drains had collapsed,  the water was running  alongside the house and it had washed 
away soil. Mr E contacted  Aviva  and a claim was made for subsidence damage to the 
house. 
Aviva arranged for a firm of loss adjusters to attend  the property and assess the damage. 
Much of the internal cracking was put down  to thermal/differential  movement  of the different 
materials, which it said was common in buildings of the age and construction  it was. It also 
considered the cracking to the rear path was historical in nature and so wouldnt be covered 
by the policy,  unless it had to be removed  for repairs to be done. It was confirmed that the 
property had suffered  from an episode of subsidence and that it appeared to have been 
caused by problems with the drains  at the rear of the property. The water  escaping the 
drains had caused  localised erosion and may have also softened the soil and reduced its 
load-bearing capacity.
Subsequently a drainage  survey to be carried out and it identified numerous problems with 
the drains which were  causing them to leak. Drainage repairs  were undertaken in April 2016. 
However, Mr E was not happy with the behaviour of the contractors and believed  they had 
caused damage to his home and two vehicles present on the drive.  He also thought  the 
drainage repairs  hadnt been  done correctly and the replacement path had been laid poorly.
Aviva returned to the property and agreed  the workmanship  on the path was poor and it 
needed replacing. It proposed that the drainage company return  to lift and reinstate  the path. 
Mr E wasnt  happy with that as it was the same company who had done such a poor job on 
the first attempt. In relation to the damaged vehicles, Aviva  asked for evidence of the 
damage and that it had been caused  by its contractors. It didnt consider what  it had been 
given evidenced  it had caused any damage, so it declined  to pay anything  in respect of the 
cars.
Aviva attempted to arrange  further appointments for its surveyors/engineers to attend and 
assess the damage to the property and establish  if it was stable. Mr E didnt refuse  to allow  
access to the property, but also doesnt appear to have complied with the requests  to 
arrange appointments. As it couldnt  progress the claim, it was settled in cash. Avivas loss 
adjusters decided how much the repairs would cost and deducted the insurance  policy  
excess. Aviva send Mr E a cheque for £785.86  on 13 April 2017. It was not cashed.
Mr E says he spoke to the loss adjusters and was told it would arrange to complete  the 
repairs if the cheque  was forwarded  to it. He says he did this but didnt  hear back. He has 
also said recently that it was not the case that he wouldnt allow anyone to access his 
property, rather he refused to have  the drainage company (who he blamed  for the damage  
to his vehicles  and poor quality works) to return to the property.
Mr E complained to Aviva. It responded to the complaint  in January 2017, but didnt uphold 
it. It set out what had happened and said that if Mr E wasnt  happy with the proposed  
Ref: DRN07901532reinstatement works  he should get his own expert  opinion. It recommended  that Mr E allow a 
further visit from its engineer to allow the issues to be resolved.
Mr E referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators  considered  it. He 
issued his conclusions  in a letter dated  17 May 2017. He wasnt  persuaded Aviva was wrong  
as to the cause  of the subsidence or that the claim had been handled unfairly. He was also 
not satisfied evidence showing Aviva was responsible  for damage to the cars had been 
provided. The investigator also concluded  that it wasnt  unreasonable for Aviva  to have 
settled the claim in cash because Mr E hadnt allowed it to complete repairs.  Mr E didnt 
respond to the view and so the complaint was closed. 
In January 2019 Mr E contacted us again. He wasnt happy with the investigators 
conclusions from eighteen months earlier and wanted the complaint reviewed.  He provided 
further evidence,  including  the engineering report hed had done a few months  earlier and an 
invoice for repairs to his roof and guttering.  The latter  confirmed that repairs  had been  to the 
guttering at the back of the house  and the ridge tiles due to the movement of the property. 
The structural engineers  report detailed that in November  2018 Mr Es home  had been  
visually inspected.   It detailed that Mr E had said the cracks had become wider  or extended 
since the drainage  repairs  had been  undertaken and two new cracks had appeared in the 
ground floor slab causing slight stepping.
Externally it was noted there were cracks in the rear elevation  and the concrete path at the 
rear had full width  cracks.  There was some horizontal cracking at the level of the damp-proof 
course on the gable wall. No damage other than age related  deterioration  was noted to the 
front elevation. 
Internally there was significant cracking at the junctions  of ceilings and walls throughout the 
first floor of the property. On the stairs  and landing  there was cracking  around  door openings 
and along the skirting  of the stairs, along with a crack in the ceiling that ran the length of the 
landing. In the rear bedroom there  was also a vertical crack  beneath  the window at the party 
wall side of the house. 
Again, on the ground floor, there  was cracking throughout at the junction between  ceilings 
and walls. There were also cracks above door openings. In the kitchen it was documented 
that there  were vertical gaps between wall tiles and some of the tiles were cracked.
The engineer concluded that the pattern of damage would indicate the rear wall was rotating 
and the point of rotation was below  ground  level close to the party  wall (with  the other half of 
the semi). It was estimated the gable wall corner had dropped  by about 10mm, although the 
gable wall itself didnt  appear to have  suffered any significant damage.  It was determined 
that the cause  of the damage  was subsidence beneath the foundations  of the rear and gable 
walls. 
Based on what the engineer knew and had been told, he determined  the original movement 
was caused by defective drains at the rear of the property. However, as the cracking had 
progressed, it appeared there was a secondary cause which  might  require further  remedial 
work.
We didnt reopen the complaint we had considered  in 2017. We also confirmed that before 
we could consider  whether the new evidence Mr E had provided would make any difference  
Ref: DRN07901533to the claim, Aviva should  first have the opportunity to assess  it. The information  was, 
therefore, forwarded to Aviva  for its consideration. 
Aviva didnt think the new information  changed the situation in relation  to the cars  the 
evidence didnt detail  why the repairs had been needed. In relation to the subsidence, it 
wasnt persuaded that it altered the outcome of the claim. However, in light of Mr E saying 
that the cracking had worsened  since the drain  repairs, Aviva proposed that a period of level 
monitoring be undertaken to establish what, if any, movement  was happening. 
Mr E confirmed he wanted to accept  the offer of monitoring.  Aviva also confirmed to this 
service it was willing to offer £300  for the delay  in dealing with the evidence  Mr E provided  in 
2019. 
Mr E accepted the £300 offer of compensation for Aviva not responding in a timely manner 
regarding the new report. However, he wanted Aviva to pay for the engineering report  he 
had to obtain because it would not have been  necessary had the loss adjusters done their 
job properly, by someone suitably qualified. He said he thought  Aviva  had prematurely 
closed the claim, despite him having  raised  complaints  about  the quality of work and the 
actions of the drainage contractors. 
Shortly thereafter Mr E wrote to us and told us the drains had been checked. From this 
investigation, Mr E believed there were further issues with the quality of the works  that had 
been done and the effects had caused him to become ill. The matter  was raised with Aviva. 
Our investigator confirmed we wouldnt look into the matter under this complaint as Aviva 
had the right to look into the matter first. 
Subsequently Aviva  confirmed that if the monitoring determined further work was required, it 
would complete all the repairs,  including those  it had previously  attempted to cash settle.  It 
also confirmed that as it was reconsidering  the complaint because of Mr Es engineers 
report, it would reimburse  the cost of the report if Mr E provided proof of payment.
Our investigator explained the new offer and agreement from Aviva  to Mr E. He also 
explained that no settlement had been  made/offered for the poorly laid path as Aviva  had 
wanted its contractor  to return and fix the poor job it had done. Aviva thought the amount 
Mr E had said hed had a quote for doing this work was too high, but if Mr E provided it with 
an itemised schedule  of works, it would consider cash  settling that repair if it seemed 
reasonable. 
The investigator acknowledged what Mr E had said about the cheque being sent to the loss 
adjusters, but noted there was no documentation or other evidence from the time to confirm 
the details of the conversation.  It was also noted  that the cheque had been made out in 
Mr Es name and so couldnt have been cashed  by anyone else.  He also pointed out that 
when a cash settlement  is made, the claim  is closed, so any arrangement Mr E may have  
made with the loss adjusters or contractors after that had happened, would have been an 
arrangement between him and them.
Mr E wasnt  satisfied that the investigator wasnt going to ask Aviva  to do more than it had 
offered to do. He reiterated and expanded  on his comments about  what  had happened prior 
to the first complaint being  referred to this service. He raised concerns about compliance  of 
the various parties involved with GDPR  regulations. Mr E also said that he would only accept 
the refund  of his engineers fees if Aviva  also agreed to pay for the repairs  he had done to 
Ref: DRN07901534his vehicles and the vehicle hire he paid for. In January 2020 Aviva  paid Mr E the cost 
associated with his engineering report.
Mr E also highlighted  some information contained  in a drainage report completed for Aviva in 
September 2019. This detailed that when the drainage repairs were done in 2016 the 
contractors identified a void that had been caused  by the escaping  water and that it was too 
large to fill using our normal hardcore for drain repairs. We would  recommend  the 
subsidence engineers investigate the area during  structural repairs. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for consideration. I 
issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2020. In that document I set out my conclusions  
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt.
Since  referring his concerns back to this service Mr E has raised  several issues  he had not 
raised with either us or Aviva aware  of before.  The rules that govern  what  we can and cant  
look at says that, unless  the financial business agrees, we cant look at issues unless they 
have previously been raised  with the financial business and it has been given at least  eight  
weeks to respond.  As such, I will not be commenting  on the matters of whether the drainage 
repairs were adequate, the damage to the leadwork on Mr Es front door or the compliance  
(or otherwise) of Aviva and its sub-contractors and GDPR regulations. 
I would also comment that if Mr E has concerns about data retention  issues,  this service  is 
not the most  appropriate body to consider  them. They would more appropriately be directed  
to the Information  Commissioners Office.
Furthermore, I dont intend to reconsider the entire complaint made  to this service  in 2017. I 
will, however, look at the new evidence Mr E has provided since  the previous  complaint and 
the resultant proposals Aviva has made. I have considered all the available evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Firstly Mr E has provided information about  the repairs for his vehicles  and the consequential 
loss of having to hire a vehicle for use during  the repairs. However, I dont believe this 
changes the position since the matter was previously considered. I say this as the 
documents dont  provide any detail of why the repairs were needed  what the cause  of the 
damage was - only what repairs were done  and the cost.  Evidence showing the cause  of the 
damage, and therefore negligence on the part of Avivas contractors, would need to be 
provided for this aspect  of the complaint to be considered again.
In relation to the poorly laid path at the rear of Mr Es home, Aviva has already accepted it 
was not adequate and needs to be replaced.  Mr E has said he didnt want the same 
company to return and try to do a better job the second time around. I can understand why 
that was the case, given the poor work done  in the first place. However, we would usually 
expect an insurer to be given the opportunity to rectify any mistakes made. As such, it 
remains that Aviva needs to lift and replace the path at the rear of Mr Es home. 
When he came back to us in 2019 Mr E provided  a report from a structural  engineer. I have  
read this carefully  and, other than attributing some internal cracking around ceiling and doors 
that is remote from the area of movement in the property to the subsidence, the overall  
conclusions were the same about the damage that was present at the time Aviva  inspected 
the property. This being that the water escaping from the damaged drains  had caused 
subsidence movement  to the rear corner of the house, which had manifested  itself in 
damage to the rear wall. 
Ref: DRN07901535The main  difference  between  Mr Es engineers findings and Avivas  was the fact that it 
included comment on what had happened since Avivas inspection and the repairs to the 
drains. That being that there may have been  further movement.
In light of the report of further movement in the property, which Aviva has accepted  is 
possible due to the underlying soil type,  it put forward that a period of monitoring should  be 
done. That period (according to Mr Es submissions) being at least  three months in duration, 
but possibly longer. 
If it is identified  that the property is still moving,  Aviva will then look into the cause of the 
further movement  and determine what needs  to be done to stabilise the property. It will 
complete any repairs  needed and whilst doing so, will complete repairs that were needed in 
2016. However, if it is evidenced that there is no further movement, I understand that Aviva 
doesnt intend to do any repairs. Rather it will maintain the cash  settlement offer it made in 
2017. 
Until the most recent information provided  by Mr E, I was satisfied the above  situation was 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint.  The information contained in 
the drainage report has changed that opinion. It is clear that at the time the cash settlement 
was made  by Aviva, it was aware of the void beneath/beside  the foundations  of Mr Es 
home. 
Aviva was also aware that an engineered  solution  was needed and that until such  a solution 
was provided, the property may well remain unstable. Given  Avivas  engineer  had not 
assessed what needed to be done  about the void, Aviva  could  not have known what repairs  
were needed  or the cost of those  repairs. In the circumstances,  I consider it was wholly  
inappropriate for Aviva  to have decided to offer a cash settlement. In addition,  I consider that 
Aviva should  have made Mr E aware,  when he ceased to fully co-operate  with it, that there  
was the possibility the property was unstable and explained the urgency of allowing it to 
complete further  assessments.
Mr E had concerns  about the parties  involved in his claim on behalf of Aviva  at the time it 
was originally be handled. He has now expressed further reservations given the information 
that has come to light about  the void created by the escaping  water.  I think  these  concerns  
are entirely reasonable. As such, I am minded to require Aviva  to appoint  a new loss 
adjuster to completely reassess the claim. In light of Mr Es concerns about  the drainage 
repairs that were done, I believe it would be appropriate for the new loss adjuster to review  
this issue too. 
Mr E has said he believes  there is damage  to his roof and this is evidenced by the repairs 
hes had to have  done to the guttering at the rear of the house. Neither Avivas nor Mr Es 
engineering report  has suggested there is any damage to the roof. However, if it is 
evidenced that there has been continuing movement  at the rear of the property, I think  
reasonably Aviva should consider whether that movement could have resulted in the 
problems with the guttering and the requirement  for roof repairs.  If it is concluded  that it 
could have done, I would expect Aviva  to refund the cost of the repairs  Mr E had completed 
upon proof of payment. I would,  however, at this stage highlight to Mr E that ridge tiles will 
periodically need to have  works done on them,  so that may well be a normal  maintenance 
issue unrelated  to the subsidence.
Ref: DRN07901536Once the full assessment of the claim has been made  by the new loss adjuster,  any and all 
repairs needed due to the subsidence caused  by the leaking  drains  or poor repairs  should 
be completed by Aviva  and no part of the claim should be cash  settled. 
Aviva has offered to refund the cost of the engineering report  if Mr E provides it with 
evidence of payment.  Given  I am not persuaded  that in this case the findings of Mr Es 
engineers made any appreciable change  to the position of the claim  the new movement is 
something Mr E could have told Aviva  about - I probably wouldnt have asked Aviva to 
refund this sum.  As such, I can but recommend the offer to Mr E.
I would make Mr E aware that a structural or civil engineering qualification  will not be needed  
for much, or possible any, of the assessment of the damage to his property. Such 
qualifications would certainly not be expected  of the contractors who attend to complete any 
repairs needed.
Mr E said that he was happy the provisional decision had gone in his favour. He made 
further comment on the matter of the reported damage caused  by the drainage  contractors 
to his vehicles  and home. He went into further  detail about his concerns and suspicions 
about the behaviour of Aviva and its contactors to date, along  with comment on how he 
believes the claim should have been investigated.
 
Mr E explained he was not happy  about how his concerns about the drainage  installation  
were being  handled. In addition, he mentioned  that some photographs  hed asked  for as part 
of a subject access  request  hadnt  been  provided to him. He said that he hadnt received the 
£300 compensation for his concerns not being addressed  in a timely manner and asked that 
the £785.86 he had been sent as the cash settlement, but not cashed the cheque for, be 
reimbursed.
Aviva didnt accept my provisional decision.  It said that it had done its utmost  to try and help 
progress the claim  and provided  records from the time to demonstrate  this and evidence  
Mr E had not co-operated. It said that the terms and conditions of the policy  allowed it to 
cash settle a claim. It also pointed  out that a consumer had an obligation to co-operate when 
required to do so. 
In relation to my conclusion that a different loss adjusting firm be appointed, Aviva  suggested  
caution in doing so, given  Mr Es previous behaviour. It expressed concern that any business 
it appointed could be met with the same  behaviour  if Mr E didnt  agree  with its findings. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset, including the 
further comments of both parties, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  
of this complaint.
Initially, I would like to comment on Mr Es concerns about information he asked for not 
being provided as part of a subject access request. This service is not the most appropriate 
one to consider  such matters. I would suggest  that if he wishes to pursue  the matter,  he refer 
it to the Information  Commissioners Office. 
I have condensed Mr Es comments  about  what has happened in the past with the claim and 
his concerns and suspicions. I considered all of these  circumstances and Mr Es views on 
Ref: DRN07901537them before reaching  my provisional decision and so the reiteration hasnt altered my 
conclusions. 
In relation to the matter of the drainage repairs, that is a separate matter and not one I will 
comment on in this decision. However, I would remind Mr E that the new loss adjuster will be 
reviewing that matter too.
Mr E has commented that the £300  compensation has not yet been paid to him. I would  ask 
Aviva to look into this matter and arrange  for payment to be made  if it has not already been. 
If it has been made, it should  furnish  Mr E with details of how and when the payment was 
made. 
As for the cheque for £785.86, this was the amount Aviva paid in settlement of the claim. 
Given Aviva  is now going  to do the works  that money was meant to pay for, it would not be 
appropriate for the money to also be paid to Mr E. 
Aviva has raised concerns that any new loss adjuster might have difficulties if Mr E doesnt 
like the conclusions it reaches. I can understand its concern; however, given the actions and 
recommendations of the previous loss adjuster, if it remained  in place, I think further 
problems would be guaranteed. I remain of the view that given the loss adjuster didnt know  
the scope of the works required or even if the property was stable, it should not have made 
the recommendation to Aviva to cash settle the claim. I remain persuaded that an alternative 
loss adjuster is needed to be able to move  this matter forward.
That said,  I would ask Mr E to co-operate with the new loss adjuster. Whilst he has many 
concerns about  what has happened in the past,  the replacement  of the loss adjuster could 
reasonably be described as a clean slate and it would benefit  both parties to treat it as such. 
Harking back to mistakes from the past will not be helpful in that process. It may be that Mr E 
may want to arrange help and support to deal with the claim going forward,  as he has had at 
times when  dealing with this service.  I will leave  that to Mr E to think  about.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to put in 
place a new loss adjusting firm to completely reassess the claim, determine  what  repairs are 
needed and arrange for those repairs to be completed. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
26 April 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0790153