K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains TSB bank plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
In September  2018, Mrs S contacted TSB.  She  said she was abroad and had lost her credit  
and debit card and wanted  to cancel them before they were used.  TSB cancelled  the cards  
but told Mrs S that there had been  some transactions  on her current account  which she 
said she had not made.
When Mrs S complained about these transactions, TSB said it was going to hold her liable 
for the transactions  as they had been  made  using  her genuine  card and PIN.  As it could find 
no point of compromise for the PIN, it determined Mrs S had authorised  the transactions.
Mrs S then came to this service where she told our investigator that TSB was wrong  in 
holding her liable.  She  provided him with a police report showing that she had reported her 
bag as being lost or stolen whilst she was abroad. She said she had not used her card whilst  
on holiday
Our investigator did not think he could ask TSB to do anymore so Mrs S asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I will not 
be asking TSB to refund this money.
Firstly, I should point  out that I know Mrs S refers to another bank  N  who she says has 
reimbursed her fully for funds lost from that account.  I cannot comment on Ns actions as I 
have no knowledge  of Mrs Ss complaint to N. This decision deals only with whether TSB 
has done anything  wrong in refusing to refund.
There were three transactions made on Mrs Ss account  and all were made using her 
genuine card.  That  can be explained  by her version of what  happened in that her purse  was 
stolen which  contained  her cards.  What is more difficult  to reconcile however, is how the 
thieves would have  known Mrs Ss PIN  because all three transactions  were also made 
using her correct PIN. I have seen that evidence and am satisfied of that.
So, in order to conclude  that these transactions were authorised,  the relevant rules say that 
they need to be authenticated  (chip  and PIN) and the consumer must also have consented  
to the payments. I am satisfied that Mrs S consented  because:
-the last time she had used her PIN was in the UK  a successful balance  enquiry 
made before she travelled abroad.  Thats relevant because  it means there  was no 
possible way a thief would have had the opportunity  to see her use her PIN whilst 
she was abroad;
-in the absence of that opportunity, it would be almost impossible for a thief to have 
guessed Mrs Ss PIN.  And she has told us that she did not share her PIN with 
anyone  neither  did she have it written  down;
Ref: DRN09037892-the transactions which Mrs S complains about  took place on 24th September  yet 
she reports her card as being  lost on 25th September;
-to further confuse matters, the police report refers to the date of loss as being  7th 
September.
So, Im afraid that I dont  find the account of what happened here to be a credible one.  In 
the circumstances, I dont think it is unfair or unreasonable for TSB to hold Mrs S liable for 
these transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0903789