K820x#14complaint
Mr C wants to reject a caravan he is financing  through  Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) 
as he says repairs that were agreed have not been carried  out in a reasonable period of 
time.
background
Mr C has been represented at times by his wife Mrs C but for ease I will refer to Mr C 
throughout this decision.
Mr C took receipt of a new caravan in early  2016.  He financed the deal through  a ten year 
hire purchase agreement with Black  Horse. He complains that there was poor workmanship 
on a plug socket when additional beds were fitted and the room layout changed. He also 
complains that a leak in the dishwasher area has not been repaired despite him reporting it 
at the end of July 2017. Hed like to be allowed to reject the caravan and terminate his 
finance agreement.
Black Horse  provided their final response to Mr C about the plug socket work on 
21 June 2017.  They said that if Mr C wanted  to refer it to our service he had six months from 
that date in which to do so and as he hadnt they said it was out of time and they wouldnt 
give permission for us to consider it. 
They explained that, in September 2017, theyd responded to Mr C about the leak around 
the dishwasher. The problem was caused by a crack in the sealant and theyd therefore tried 
to arrange a repair but Mr C hadnt provided  authorisation for the repairer to attend.  They  
said they were still prepared to complete the repairs.
But Mr C wasnt  satisfied and he referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator  
reviewed the evidence. She agreed that the complaint  about  the plug socket and bed 
placement had been  made out of time and this service was therefore  not allowed to review it.
With regard to the leak in the dishwasher area, she noted that Mr C had accepted  a payment 
from Black  Horse for loss of use in January 2018 but she couldnt agree that there was 
evidence Mr C had given  approval for the repair to commence. So she thought  the fairest 
solution would be to allow Black Horse to complete the repairs.
But Mr C disagreed with the investigators resolution.  He provided copies of email  
correspondence with Black Horse that explained the damage was getting worse  and he said 
he didnt believe that Black Horse would instruct an independent engineer to inspect and 
approve the repair if it was completed. He asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C but I agree with the investigators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN05912032Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the complaint  about the plug socket/bedroom  reconfiguration
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to 
us. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules detail which  complaints we can consider. 
Amongst other tests the customer has six months  from the date he or she receives the 
business final response letter to refer their complaint  to us. After  six months  has elapsed 
this service needs consent from the business to consider a complaint, and failing this it can 
only do so if there are exceptional circumstances why it was brought late.
Its clear that Mr Cs complaint about the plug socket  and bed reconfiguration work  was 
answered by Black  Horse  more than six months before Mr C referred it to us and as Black 
Horse havent given us permission  to consider it, and there are no exceptional  
circumstances Ive seen,  Im afraid it cant be considered.
the complaint  about the leak
Mr C acquired  his caravan under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the 
caravan should  have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Black Horse  
are responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
Relevant legislation says:
a consumer  who  agrees to the repair of goods cannot require the trader to replace them,  
or exercise  the short term right to reject, without giving the trader a reasonable time to repair 
them
Mr C reported his concerns about  the leak in June 2017 and Black  Horse accepted theyd  
need to complete a repair. They paid Mr C some compensation in January but they say the 
repairer has not been authorised to complete  the work. 
Ive reviewed the email  trail and information  provided by Mr C and I can see that he told 
Black Horse  that the repairs  were still outstanding but I cant  see that he told them  hed allow 
them to be completed. So I dont think it would  be fair to suggest Black Horse  have had 
reasonable time to repair the fault as that time can only be measured  from the point at which  
authorisation is given  and it hadnt  been.
So I agree with the investigator that the fairest solution here is to allow Black Horse  to 
complete those repairs; after which theyve agreed  that theyll appoint an independent 
inspector to approve the work.
Ref: DRN05912033my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0591203