K822xcomplaint
Mrs R is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  handling of a 
subsidence/heave claim on her home insurance policy.
background 
Mrs R made  a claim on her policy in July 2014 after she noticed cracks  appearing between 
the conservatory and the main property. Her insurer, RSA, arranged for its agent  to visit the 
property and after a period of monitoring it identified heave to the conservatory and that the 
only course of action was to rebuild it on a new piled foundation.  The repair works started  in 
March 2017 and were  estimated to take around  12 weeks. However, the claim wasnt closed 
until March 2019.  
Mrs R is unhappy with how long the works have taken and felt that some of the work carried  
out was substandard. This meant some work had to be redone more  than once causing 
further delays.  Mrs R has also said the contractor has damaged her patio and is unhappy  
RSA wont replace it. And shes said dealing with the claim has caused stress and 
inconvenience. 
RSA accepted that there were unacceptable delays and apologised. Following some back  
and forth,  RSA offered  Mrs R £500 compensation. RSAs contractor also acid cleaned the 
patio slabs to try and remove the cement  stains, and said the slabs  were within a satisfactory 
tolerance. Mrs R remained unhappy so brought  her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt RSAs handling of the claim had an impact  on 
Mrs R and recommended  £1,500  compensation  in total for the trouble and upset Mrs R has 
suffered. She also felt it was fair for RSA to contribute  50% towards the cost of replacing  the 
patio as the cleaning hadnt  removed all of the damage its contractors had caused. 
This offer was based  on the quote Mrs R had obtained in February  2020  for £6,750  (50%  - 
£3,375). Both parties  accepted this initially, but Mrs R said she didnt realise  that RSA would 
only pay for the 50% of the patio on proof  that the work had been  completed  photographs  
and sight of the invoice. She says she thought it would all be paid upfront and thats why she 
accepted the offer,  as she wanted to draw a line under it.
Mrs R says she cant currently afford to pay for the patio to be done. Our investigator 
explained that we wouldnt expect a business  to pay in advance of the works being  
completed but she said she would ask RSA to consider it. RSA declined but offered £500 
towards the aesthetic loss, which it would deduct from the 50% contribution when Mrs R had 
the funds to replace the patio. Our Investigator thought this was a fair offer.
Mrs R disagreed. She feels the offer of £500  is not a reasonable offer for the damage 
caused. Mrs R says the quote she provided will no longer  be valid as she thinks  she wont  
be able to replace  the patio until next year.  She thinks any new quotes that she obtains, 
maybe higher,  so doesnt feel its fair for RSA to pay a maximum of £3,375. Mrs R feels  all 
the risk is on her.
Mrs R has said she is concerned that the patio contractor will need to be paid the full amount 
and she would be left chasing RSA for the funds, which later down the line they may refuse  
to pay or not pay her promptly. Mrs R wants RSA to significantly increase their offer now so 
Ref: DRN08878602there would be no requirement to contribute in the future. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  are fully aware of the background of this complaint, so I wont be going into 
detail about the delays  and substandard repairs. However, Ive carefully considered all the 
points Mrs R has raised in her complaint.
The repairs  ran significantly over the scheduled  12 weeks that they were expected to take. I 
can see there were works that shouldve been  scoped for in the original scope of works  that 
were overlooked, this caused considerable delay. Mrs R has also had to put up with 
numerous repairs having to be redone as the works were not adequate. 
The impact  of these  delays and the substandard work has caused  Mrs R an unnecessary  
amount of distress and inconvenience. She has had to spend  an unreasonable  amount of 
time chasing RSA,  its agent and their contractors  for responses  to progress the claim. She 
has had the loss of enjoyment of her garden for two years. And whist the claim repairs were  
being carried out Mrs Rs driveway was storing building  materials,  a skip and a portable 
toilet. Mrs R has also had the additional inconvenience of having  to arrange more  time off 
work to accommodate the extra  visits  due to the delays and poor workmanship. Mrs R has 
said her health was affected  by the stress of the claim. 
Its not unusual  for a claim of this nature to have  some inconvenience, however this went  on 
far longer than needed and it wasnt an acceptable  level of service. Im therefore persuaded 
that increased compensation is warranted in this case  and the £1,500 compensation 
recommended by our investigator is fair and reasonable  in recognition of the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mrs R. So, I wont be asking RSA to increase this any further.
Ive also carefully considered both parties comments regarding  the patio and the settlement 
suggested by our investigator. 
Both parties  disagree  about the degree of outstanding damage  that remains on Mrs Rs 
patio. And RSA also thinks the quote Mrs R has supplied  is high.  It has therefore offered for 
its agent to quote  for the work. I dont think this late in the claim that its reasonable for this to 
happen. Our investigator enquired about this in February  2020  and she was told 
categorically that it wasnt possible. I dont think causing a further delay  in this case  now is 
reasonable. Having considered all the evidence I think  its fair that both parties pay 50% 
towards the replacement  of the patio and this will be based  on the quote Mrs R was able to 
obtain in February  2020. 
I understand Mrs R thinks it unfair  that costs could be higher in the future as her current 
quote may not be valid. But I wouldnt  expect  RSA to leave this cost open indefinitely  for re-
assessment, and Im satisfied its offer on the basis of that quote was fair and reasonable as 
Mrs R has had the opportunity to arrange the works  should she want  to. 
Mrs R has asked for the payment in full to her account. And has said she doesnt feel she 
should have to provide an invoice and evidence to RSA before receiving this sum.
Ref: DRN08878603I dont think its unreasonable for a business  to ask for proof  that the work has been  
arranged and completed before it will arrange  payment. I say this as this payment is not 
compensatory and is to cover the actual costs that she will incur in replacing her patio.
And it is the point Mrs R would have  incurred a cost it is covering  so the insurer would 
need to honour  the payment agreed. If Mrs R chooses not to go ahead with the replacement,  
then I wouldnt expect  RSA to pay her this sum as put simply, she hadnt incurred these 
related costs.
RSA has agreed to pay £500 for the aesthetic  loss for the damage.  It has said its happy to 
pay this now and if Mrs R does choose to replace the patio later it will deduct  the £500  from 
the quote and pay her a maximum of £2,875. I think this is reasonable, and it accounts and 
compensates Mrs R for any delay in having  the works carried  out.
I would add that in my experience most contractors would only expect full payment once the 
job is completed. So, it seems unlikely to me that Mrs R would be required to pay the full 
payment upfront. I also cant ignore that shell have to fund half of this work herself, so its 
unclear to me what difference  having RSAs  funds upfront will make when arranging  the 
works. For the reasons  given  above, Im not persuaded its unfair for RSA to expect Mrs R to meet 
the requirements it has set out to ensure the works  are carried  out.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay:
£1,500 compensation in total,  for the trouble and upset
£500 now for the aesthetic loss of the patio
50% of the invoice  Mrs R provides when the patio is completed - to a maximum 
amount of £2,875.
RSA should pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs R 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0887860