K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about repairs carried out to his car when he made a claim under his 
Minor Damage Protection (MDP) policy. Both Mr and Mrs H have communicated  with us and 
Lloyds about  Mr Hs complaint.
All references to Society of Lloyds include its agents.
background
Mr H made  a claim to Lloyds for some damage  to his car to be repaired.  In October 2018 a 
technician carried out the repairs. About a week later  when  it was a sunny day  Mr H 
noticed further damage. So he reported it to Lloyds. 
Lloyds offered for a technician to attend  to correct the repairs.  But Mr H didnt want  this to 
happen. He was reluctant to allow Lloyds to look at his car for a second time. 
As Lloyds  believed its offer was reasonable, Mr H eventually agreed  to allow a technician to 
attend and this took place  in December 2018.  
In late December 2018, Mr and Mrs H asked us to look at Mr Hs complaint. They said that 
following the second visit, Mr Hs car has been  polished to a satisfactory  standard.  But they 
intended to have the repair work looked at by a specialist in the New Year. In the meantime, 
Mrs H remained  unhappy. She said she felt they werent given a choice but to allow Lloyds 
to instruct the technician to rectify the first repairs.
Our investigator thought that overall  Lloyds had acted reasonably to offer for a technician  to 
rectify the repairs. And for the inconvenience  caused, he thought the compensation of £75 it 
paid was also reasonable. He explained that while he could see Mr and Mrs H were  unhappy  
with the timescales  given  and for how long Lloyds took to deal with their complaint, as this 
isnt a regulated  activity,  this isnt something  our service could consider.
Mrs H on behalf of Mr H didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it.
Mrs H says shes struggling to understand how we believe Lloyds hasnt done anything 
wrong. 
When things go wrong we look at what the business  did to put things right.  If we think  the 
business has done enough to resolve the complaint, we wont  ask it to do any more.  The 
investigator felt that Lloyds had caused  Mr and Mrs H inconvenience. But he felt that it had 
done enough to put things right. So I dont think the investigator  thought Lloyds hadnt done  
anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN07169572I think Lloyds did provide a poor service. Mrs H says she was inconvenienced because she 
says the first appointment was cancelled without notice, the second appointment was when 
the poor repairs were  carried out, and the third appointment  took place because  of the 
second appointment. Mrs H is also unhappy with the discussion that took place with the 
technicians who attended in December 2018. 
When Lloyds replied  to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, the second visit in December 2018 hadnt  
taken place  but had been arranged. When Mr and Mrs H asked us to look at their 
complaint, Mr and Mrs H hadnt complained to Lloyds about  the visit that took place in 
December 2018.  So I cant make a finding on this issue in my decision. Mr and Mrs H can 
raise any new concern with Lloyds.  And if Mr and Mrs H remain  unhappy, we can look at any 
new complaint for them. It isnt right for us to make  a finding before Lloyds has the 
opportunity to first reply to the complaint.
So what  remains for me to decide  is whether Lloyds have  done  enough to put things  right 
following the first visit when the repairs  were  poorly carried out in October 2018.
I think its reasonable to expect a degree  of inconvenience when making a claim. 
Unfortunately its inevitable. But because the repairs were  poorly  carried out, I think Mr and 
Mrs H were put to further inconvenience over and above what Id consider  reasonable. They  
had to put arrangements in place for a second  visit so that a technician  could  rectify  the 
previous repairs.
I can see that Mr and Mrs H spent time communicating with Lloyds about their concerns. 
But I also think it was reasonable for Lloyds to offer to send a technician out to rectify the 
repairs. And it said if this wasnt successful, it would consider  alternative  options. I think  
Lloyds approach here was fair.
Lloyds recognised the inconvenience it caused. So by way of an apology, it paid £75 
compensation. I understand Mrs H doesnt feel this fairly reflects  the time and upset caused. 
But I think overall  for the complaint that our service  has investigated  Lloyds has done 
enough to put things  right. And so this means  I dont think  Lloyds needs to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0716957