K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that NatWest are holding him liable for an overdraft debt on a bank account  
he did not have  with them.
background
In 2018, Mr W received a letter from a debt collection agency seeking  to recover  about £400 
relating to an account with NatWest. The account had gone into an overdraft and had been 
outstanding since  2017. Mr W complained  because  he said he had never  had an account 
with NatWest, let alone  run up an overdraft with them, therefore there  must  have been a 
mistake.
NatWest checked  the account opening  information  and other  records.  Having done so, they 
thought that Mr W had opened  and used the account; they did not think they had made a 
mistake and it was reasonable of them to pursue recovery of the debt.
The investigator at this service looking into the complaint agreed with NatWest. 
Mr W thought  that was unfair. He maintained that his identity had been stolen and the 
account opened fraudulently; therefore, any debt relating  to the account  was not his. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also think that it is reasonable for NatWest to seek recovery  from Mr W for 
the debt. I will explain why.
I can see from NatWests records that the account  was opened in September 2015. The 
account was active until 2017. It received regular payments in from the DWP, although these 
were not the only deposits. When the account did go into overdraft, during the active  period, 
money was paid in to prevent the balance going over the limit. This indicates  someone was 
aware of, and involved in, the running  of the account.
Mr W said he has never claimed any benefits. The reference next to the DWP  payments  
appears to be a National Insurance number. Mr W says his number is different. From his 
memory, he provided the letters  and I note two of them are different. So I bear in mind  there  
is a possibility the payments did not relate to him. That said,  I also bear in mind  that I have 
not been provided with any information  from the DWP to confirm  whether or not Mr W has 
ever been  in receipt of any payments, nor do I have any documentation which sets out 
Mr Ws full National  Insurance number.
Considering the other evidence then, I can see that the details used to open and maintain 
the account were  the same as those  provided by Mr W to this service:  that is to say, for 
example, his names, date of birth, email address, landline number and mobile  number. The 
bankcard for the account and the PIN were sent to Mr Ws address. 
This means  that anybody using Mr Ws details would also have to have access to his home 
in order to be able collect and use the bankcard. Mr W has said that the person he lived with 
Ref: DRN09926992at the relevant time is beyond  reproach and he has said that others could have access  to his 
home but he has not explained who or how. 
Paper statements were  not sent to the address, however, email notifications  were sent. 
Given that the email  address the bank held is the same one Mr W uses, I think it more  likely 
than not that Mr W saw those messages including those informing him that charges would 
apply to the account. I think  that is consistent  with the way the account was run.
The type of identification used for the account  opening was a provisional driving licence. The 
start date for the licence  was 30 June  2015. Mr W said he lost his wallet  in June 2015. If that 
were the case,  that would indicate  that someone  had used  Mr Ws information to apply for a 
fake licence.
Mr W thinks that must be right as he told us he had not held a provisional licence since the 
1990s.The investigator  at this service asked Mr W for a copy  of his current licence but Mr W 
said that it had been sent off for renewal and had no other photo identification. This means  I 
have nothing to compare it against and again I have to use the information,  which  I do have.
Importantly, however, the investigator also noted  that a provisional licence, bearing the 
identical details as in this case, was used to open  an account - which Mr W did not dispute  - 
at a different  bank.  I can see the relevant document was certified as a true copy  of the 
original. That was in September  2017.
I think it is more  likely than not, therefore, that the provisional licence was that of Mr W and it 
was used to open the NatWest account.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr W did open the NatWest account and do think  it is fair and 
reasonable of NatWest  to pursue him for the debt, which accrued on it.
my final decision
As a result of my findings, therefore,  I do not uphold  this complaint and I do not require 
NatWest to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0992699