K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund  any commission  it received 
from his credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for the policy he took out 
in 2005.
background
The PPI policy was attached to a credit card. HSBC looked into the sale of this policy in 
2011 and upheld Mr Os complaint. Mr O contacted HSBC in 2017  to complain about the 
level of undisclosed  commission (and profit share) received by HSBC  on this PPI policy.  He 
felt that this meant he was owed more on top of what  HSBC  had already paid him.
HSBC says it has already  fully upheld Mr Os complaint and didnt need to do anything more  
in relation to the amount  of commission and profit share it received for the PPI policy.  This is 
because when it offered  compensation  it had refunded everything Mr O had paid towards 
PPI, and this included all the commission and profit share it received.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Os complaint and thought HSBC had acted fairly and didnt 
need to do anything further.
The letter HSBC sent to Mr O in 2011 referred  to one credit card PPI policy.  HSBC  says only 
that credit  card PPI policy was included in that offer. My decision is only about that policy.  
But HSBC  has told us Mr O has also had two other  credit card PPI policies. It has told us it 
hasnt yet investigated any complaint about those two credit card PPI policies. I gather 
HSBC intends  to look into and contact Mr O about  those  policies  separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) provided  guidance and rules on how businesses  
should approach compensation for PPI when a consumer  complains  about  the sale of PPI. It 
referred to a two-step  approach.  
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
The rules  say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission  (and profit  share)  
charged if it upheld  the consumers  complaint that PPI had been  mis-sold (step  1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer  wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they did and offers  to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission (step 2).
So here, Im satisfied Mr O made  a complaint about a mis-sale  of PPI, which HSBC 
investigated and upheld in 2011.
Ref: DRN09600732When HSBC offered compensation to Mr O in 2011  it refunded  everything Mr O had paid 
towards PPI, and importantly this included all the commission and profit  share it received.
As HSBC had investigated the sale of the policy and upheld it in 2011 with Mr O receiving 
full compensation,  including all the commission and profit share  it received, HSBC  didnt 
have to go on and consider whether  the relationship was unfair. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Os particular complaint and 
circumstances that means HSBC  should do something different and I dont think  there is. 
HSBC has done  what the rules  it must  follow tell it to do. So I wont  be telling HSBC  to do 
anything more for this credit card PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0960073