K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has declined their claim for 
subsidence under  their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C noticed their conservatory was coming away  from the wall of their house and 
made a claim to Covea.  It appointed a loss adjuster  to inspect the damage and consider the 
claim. Covea  said the conservatory foundation  had been poorly designed  and that meant the 
claim wouldnt be paid.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs C complained. They said when the conservatory was built 
there were no building regulations in relation to foundation depth.
Covea maintained the conservatory had been  poorly  designed and mentioned a particular 
set of new building standards it didnt think had been  followed.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think it was fair for their claim to be declined.  They  said Covea were 
looking at the wrong  rules  and regulations when judging the depth of the conservatory 
foundation. Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigators didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Covea had acted fairly. He felt the 
limited foundations showed the conservatory was of faulty design  and poor workmanship. Mr 
and Mrs C didnt agree and so their complaint has been passed on to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied it was fair 
for Covea  to decline the claim. So, I wont be upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
The policy covers damage  caused by subsidence, subject to a number of policy  terms. One 
of those said Covea  wont pay for damage arising from poor design, defective materials, or 
faulty workmanship.
Covea accepts the conservatory was damaged  by subsidence. Its declined the claim 
because it thinks this policy term applies. It said the foundation  is too shallow  and that 
means it was poorly designed.
When the loss adjuster  visited to inspect the damage, I understand Mr C had already dug a 
trench to expose the foundation of the conservatory  himself. The loss adjuster said the 
foundation was 200mm deep  and Mr C doesnt dispute this.
The loss adjuster said this depth of foundation is inadequate because its incapable of 
supporting the structure. Theyre a chartered engineer with significant experience in 
subsidence damage, so I think its reasonable to consider their opinion on this point. The 
Ref: DRN08214452engineer said in line with regulations and guidelines  the foundation  ought to have been at 
least 750mm deep.
Coveas loss adjuster  has also referred to standards for building near trees applied by an 
organisation involved in the building of new homes, which Ill refer to as H.
Mr and Mrs C dont think Hs standards should  be taken into account because  they dont  
apply to their conservatory when it was built. Coveas  loss adjuster says Hs standards  are 
widely used to provide information about  the depth  of foundation required in order to avoid 
subsidence problems.
Mr C has been in touch  with H to check this. Mr C found out from H the standards are written  
with new build homes in mind  and arent  intended  for extensions or additions  to the main 
home. As Mr and Mrs Cs conservatory  wasnt built as a new home   and is an extension  it 
wasnt subject to Hs standards guidelines. So, the builder of their conservatory wasnt 
obliged to follow those  standards.  Because of that, I dont think it would  be fair to take Hs 
standards into account when considering whether  the foundation was poorly designed.
Mr C said the conservatory builder told him the structure wasnt subject to building  
regulations, so he doesnt have any certificates or other information to show  the 
conservatory met building regulations or was approved by building control. This means 
theres no evidence  to contradict the loss adjusters  view that the foundation was 
inadequate.
It appears the conservatory wasnt subject to building  regulations when it was built. But I 
think its fair to say the builder still had a duty to ensure  the structure was built to a 
reasonable standard. That includes designing an appropriate depth of foundation for the 
surrounding conditions,  such  as the make-up  of the subsoil. In my view it would be 
reasonable to take into account the relevant guidance and best practice available at the time 
of construction.  Although it wasnt a requirement  to meet  building regulations,  I think they 
offered a good  indication  of the type of foundation depth that would be appropriate.
Building regulations  generally required a minimum depth of 750mm  at the time the 
conservatory was built. This is consistent  with the expert views.  The actual foundation depth  
of 200mm was significantly  below  this. Theres no information to show what the builder took 
into account when  designing the foundation  this way. It doesnt appear  relevant guidance,  
such as building  regulations, were taken into account. Also,  theres no documented record  to 
show building control compliance. So, overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Covea to 
rely on the policy term about poor design to decline the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2020
John Quinlan
Ref: DRN08214453Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0821445