K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains about the way that Iwoca Ltd has dealt with its difficulties in 
making payments.
background
C took a revolving credit facility for £5,000 from Iwoca in July 2015. The director  of C 
provided a personal  guarantee. C had difficulties in making required payments and its 
account was passed into collections.  Payment arrangements were  not kept to and this led to 
the account being terminated. C says that Iwoca had prevented it making  a payment by 
credit card and had not provided a clear  offer of settlement.
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-C had difficulties making payments due to the account after April 2017.
-In March 2018 Iwoca said it would not accept a settlement of the balance by credit 
card. But it later said it would accept  one payment in this way and would back-date  
interest. 
-Instead in June 2018 a plan to pay £100 a month was offered by C and agreed from 
August 2018.
-The first payment was made but the second and subsequent payments werent. 
-C requested another settlement figure  which was confirmed as £2,422.92. There was 
confusion over whether this included the outstanding amount  of £200 from the 
payment plan or not.
-On 26 October 2018 it was confirmed that it did and the offer of settlement was 
extended. The collections  activity has been  put on hold while  this service has been  
looking into the complaint.
-He considered that Iwoca had acted fairly.
C did not agree and asked for time to provide information for the review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know the investigator gave C the three  weeks it asked for to provide further information. 
Nothing has been received by this service.  And I dont consider it necessary to call the 
director of C as he asked  to make a decision  on this case. I think C has had ample time now 
to respond to the view and to put forward any further  evidence.
I also need to make clear  that I am considering  a complaint here from C, a separate entity to 
the director. Clearly he has given a personal guarantee in support  of the borrowing. But I am 
not looking at any action taken about  that. The way in which  his personal offers  to make 
payments to clear Cs liability  have  been  dealt with is though  clearly  material  to C.
The investigator has set out some  of the history  in this case. C has had ongoing difficulties in 
meeting payments as they have  fallen due. And its explained the reasons for this to Iwoca  
and which  have included  changes to its payment terms  affecting its cash  flow and difficulties  
with its bank. I can see from the case notes that in 2017 a temporary payment arrangement  
was agreed. C did not meet all the payments as they became due and was sent a final 
demand in September 2017.  
Ref: DRN00181672In March 2018 Iwoca had said it would not accept a payment by credit  card to settle the 
debt. I have looked at the emails about  this and can see that at one point the director  has 
said he had made  a payment directly from his bank.  Iwoca did not receive that. And then it 
seems that he offered  payment  from a personal  credit card - not from C directly.  But in any 
event Iwoca has explained  its general policy about  accepting credit card payments. To me 
that seems a responsible approach and here it offered an exception to it as a gesture of 
goodwill. C did not take this up. 
C then asked for a settlement figure again.  On 3 May 2018  the director  said a payment had 
been made through the banking system  for £2,604.65. This was not received. The director  
said that this was due to a technical problem with his bank.  He promised that this would be 
paid. And that if all else failed his father  would make  the payment by debit card. Promised 
payments were not received  and the account was terminated on 30 May 2018 for non 
payment.
Payments of £100 per month were offered on behalf  of C with the first agreed and made in 
August 2018.  Further  such  payments were not. I can see from the complaint form that C 
says that Iwoca was then unclear about the specific payments due. But C did not make  what 
it was thought had been agreed of £100 a month. It then asked for a settlement figure for the 
account. This was confirmed as £2,422.93 on 3 October 2018 and accrued interest had 
been waived.  There was then confusion about  whether or not the £200  outstanding from the 
payment plan was also included  in that figure of was separate.  Iwoca confirmed on 26 
October 2018 that it was all covered  in the settlement  and payment was requested  by noon 
on 31 October 2018. 
The issue  then seemed to be a concern from C about what  would happen if the payment did 
not reach Iwoca by noon on that day. And also that there had been no formal offer on 
headed paper. This was addressed in a further  letter giving it until 9 November 2018 to pay. 
C said that the payment had been made.  But then that it was withdrawn when the director 
received a letter of claim dated 13 November 2018.  He asks in the complaint form for C to 
be given a settlement  figure with 28 days to pay or a monthly repayment plan with 
suspended interest.
Ive set out the background to this complaint in some detail. And thats because I think  that 
Iwoca has given C reasonable opportunities to make payments through a payment  plan.  Or 
for it to settle the amount outstanding with some interest waived. Id expect Iwoca to treat the 
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. That does  not mean it needs to take any 
particular sort of action   for example to suspend  interest as C now wants. But I think its set 
realistic payment plans  taking into account the information its been given and the offers  
made on behalf of C. Im struggling to understand how if money  was available  to settle  the 
balance then this was not successfully sent to Iwoca. But in any event even accepting for 
technological problems  or confusion at one point about what was due I think C has had 
sufficient opportunity to make payments.
In addition, as the investigator said, the collections activity has been  on hold while  this 
complaint has been investigated which I think was a reasonable  approach by Iwoca. Im 
afraid though it is now a matter for C to discuss again its repayment proposals with Iwoca. I 
dont find Iwoca has acted  unreasonably.
Ref: DRN00181673my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0018167