K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that when  he enquired about  a loan Nationwide Building  Society  didnt tell 
him that he could proceed with the quote it gave him and then have 31 days to either accept 
or reject the offer.
background
In July 2018 Mr B rang Nationwide to enquire  about taking out a loan for home improvements. 
The adviser provided a quote with an APR of 3.9%.  Mr B didnt proceed at that time,  but 
contacted Nationwide again  in October  2018  when he was given a quote with an APR of 8.6%.
He complained to Nationwide about the APR increase and about the information he had 
been given during his July phone call.
In its response Nationwide said it was unable to tell him why the interest rate had increased,  
although it did make  reference to his credit file. It also said that having listened  to Mr Bs July phone  
call it considered that its adviser had correctly told Mr B that the quote would be valid for 15 days.
Mr B was unhappy with this response and he complained to us.
Initially there appears to have been some misunderstanding between us and Mr B about the 
precise nature of his complaint. Our adjudicators first view included  comments on the 14 
day cooling  off period and on the APR. Mr B responded  saying he wasnt complaining about 
either of these matters,  but about  the fact that Nationwide  hadnt told him that he could 
proceed on a provisional basis with the July quote  and then have a further  31 days  to decide 
whether or not to accept  the loan.
Our adjudicator therefore issued a second  view. In summary he said that after listening to 
Mr Bs July phone call he was satisfied that Mr B was only at the loan enquiry stage with little 
apparent intention of proceeding  that day and probably not within a month. 
Nationwide had told Mr B that it had provided  him with a soft quote and not carried out any credit  
checks. His enquiry  would therefore not appear on his credit file. If he subsequently decided  to 
proceed, credit checks would be carried out, which would be recorded on his credit file. Nationwide  
had confirmed that the quote would remain valid for 15 days  and in all likelihood  at the quoted  rate 
unless Mr Bs circumstances  changed  dramatically. In response to Mr Bs question about  coming  
back in a month, Nationwide said it would have  to provide him with a further quote at that point. 
Mr B said he was going to shop  around first and get back in touch later.
Given the speculative  nature  of Mr Bs enquiry our adjudicator didnt consider that 
Nationwide had done anything wrong  in not informing him during the call that if he continued 
with his application, with all of the checks that would entail, then the loan offer would be 
available to him for 31 days.
Mr B remained unhappy  with the adjudicators  view.  In summary he said that he had been  
told by other  Nationwide staff that he should have been given details of the 31 day option. 
He also said that when he had said he intended  to shop  around he didnt mean for other 
loans, but for prices  for his proposed  building  work.
Ref: DRN04551702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make clear at the outset exactly what I am reporting on here.
Mr B responded in very clear terms to our adjudicators first view by saying that his real 
complaint hadnt  been looked at, and that the adjudicator had considered matters he hadnt 
complained about.  In my report I have therefore  limited my observations  to what I 
understand to be Mr Bs complaint   namely that when he rang Nationwide in July, the 
adviser should have given  him the option to proceed  with his loan application, which would  
have given him a further 31 days to decide  whether  to accept it.
But for the sake of completeness I should also say that I have considered  the matters 
covered by the adjudicator in his first view and I agree  with his conclusions  and for much the 
same reasons as he set out.
I have listened  to Mr Bs July phone call to Nationwide. And having done so it is clear to me 
that his loan enquiry appeared to be purely  speculative at that stage. He said he would have 
to talk to his wife and intended to shop around. Mr B has said that his comments about  
shopping around related to looking for better  deals on the goods and services he was 
intending to purchase, not for other lending options. But whilst  I accept  that this is the 
information Mr B intended to convey, in my judgment there  was nothing in what  he said that 
could reasonably be interpreted that way in the context  of the discussion about the loan. 
Having looked  at the evidence here,  my firm view is that Mr B gave the impression during his 
phone call that his enquiry  was at that stage tentative, and that he would consider the 
information Nationwide had given him in the light of the outcome of his further discussions 
with others. Given this I find that Nationwide acted reasonably in not pursuing Mr Bs enquiry 
more determinedly than it did during  the call. In particular I am not persuaded that 
Nationwide made  an error  by not giving Mr B further  details of the possibility of proceeding 
with the loan quote, which would  have enabled  him to delay his final decision for 31 days.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0455170