K822xcomplaint
Mr T, through  his representative Mrs H, complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  
Limited miss-sold him his buildings insurance policy in 2008 which he also says was unfairly  
expensive for the cover  it provided. 
 
background 
Mr T took out buildings  insurance with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) in 
2001. In 2008 he was consolidating  his loans and says he was told by Lloyds that if he 
purchased another policy with it, it would look more  favourably on his loan application. So he 
took out a different, more  expensive, buildings insurance product with Lloyds in July 2008  
and cancelled his old one back to October  2007 (the date Mr T had last paid a premium  on 
it). 
In April 2016 Mr T complained to Lloyds. He said hed had been pressured into taking out 
the buildings  insurance policy in 2008  because hed been told he had to have it in order to 
get his loan application approved. So he said the policy had been miss-sold.  He also 
complained that at the time of the sale, he was told the cost of the policy  was competitive but 
that clearly wasnt the case given  the size of the premium in relation to the property the 
policy covered.  
Lloyds looked  into Mr Ts complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said that due 
to the passage of time it was unable to comment now on whatd been said at the point  the 
policy was sold. It said it sent him a renewal pack each year about three weeks before the 
renewal date which was an invitation  only. It said he wasnt obliged  to accept the renewal 
invite if he felt it didnt  reflect the cover and service  provided. Lloyds said the policy cost was 
clearly communicated  on the documents and had been  calculated  correctly. Finally  it said 
the price increases were in line with changes  to its general rates,  post code area rates  and 
claims made  on the policy. It said it understood hed obtained a cheaper policy with a 
different insurer but it couldnt comment on that because each insurer assessed risk 
differently and the price charged  reflected that. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloydss investigation,  Mr T (through Mrs H) complained  to this 
service. Mrs H said Mr T was especially unhappy that Lloyds hadnt addressed his complaint 
about the miss-sale.  She said this was the main  part of his complaint.   
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ts complaint and said that there wasnt really  any evidence  
to confirm whether  or not the policy had been miss-sold. But following his involvement,  and 
in the interests  of resolving the complaint, Lloyds made Mr T an offer to settle it. Lloyds 
offered to refund the difference  between what Mr T had paid in 2007 (the last year of the old 
policy) which  was £203.88 and the amount he paid every year after that up until the policy  
was cancelled in 2012. This came to £495.45. Lloyds offered to pay simple interest on this 
amount at 8% a year from the date each premium was paid to the date it made  the refund. 
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair offer in all the circumstances. 
Mr T replied to say thought that hed been  overcharged on his old policy  too so the point 
from which the refund should be calculated should in fact be the 2006 policy year because 
thered been a dramatic and unexplained price increase at the 2007 renewal. Our 
adjudicator said he appreciated  thered been a large (30%) increase in premium at the 2007  
renewal but when taken against  the premiums  for the whole life of the old policy  (2001-2007) 
Ref: DRN04258032that looked reasonable. He said between 2001-2007 the total premium increase had been 
34% - an average of 5.6% a year. 
Our adjudicator put Mr Ts suggestion  to Lloyds but it said it wasnt prepared to move the 
refund point to 2006. It said the reason the 2007 renewal saw such a large percentage 
increase in premium  was because Mr T had made a claim for storm damage just beforehand 
which affected his no claims  discount and impacted the renewal  price  offered. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the policy sale
I appreciate the Mr T has said his main complaint is that the second policy was miss-sold to 
him in 2008. Hes repeatedly given an account of what was said during the sale. But, due to 
the passage of time since the sale was made, theres insufficient  information available  for 
me to reasonable say that this was the case. 
policy premiums 
Its not for me to tell Lloyds what price it needed  to charge Mr T for his home  insurance.  
Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk of him needing to make  a claim and its wider 
commercial requirements. But I can intervene if I think Lloyds has treated Mr T unfairly in the 
way its priced his policy. 
Following our adjudicators investigation  of the complaint, Lloyds offered to pay Mr T 
£495.45.This amount is made up of the difference between what  Mr T paid in the last year of 
the old policy (£203.88)  and the premiums  he paid on his new policy from 2008  to 2012. It is 
the sale of the second policy that Mr T is unhappy with and this offer puts him in the position  
he wouldve been  in if his premiums had remained the same as they did in the last year of 
the old policy. Lloyds  has also offered  to add interest to this amount  at this services  usual  
rate of 8% simple a year from the date each premium was paid to the date Lloyds pays  Mr T.
In deciding what fair compensation should  be, Ive taken into account Mr Ts premium history  
and his personal circumstances. Having carefully considered the offer made, I think  that it 
represents fair compensation in all the circumstances. Its difficult to work  out what  saving a 
consumer wouldve made over the years.  Just because a consumer has recently identified a 
much cheaper policy, doesnt  mean thats the price they wouldve paid over the intervening  
period. Insurers are entitled to reassess  the risks they are presented  with at renewal and set 
the price accordingly.  
I understand that Mrs H on behalf of Mr T said she thought the refund should  be calculated  
using the premium from the 2006 policy year (£156.68).  Mrs H says that the premium 
increased inexplicably in 2007  to £203.88  (a 30% increase) so it would be fairer to use the 
2006 premium to calculate the refund. Im unable to agree. Lloyds has told us that the 
premium increased in 2007 because Mr T had made a claim under the policy  for storm 
damage and that had affected the no claims discount on his policy.  Making a claim on the 
Ref: DRN04258033policy will typically  lead to an increase in premium as an insurers  view of the risk its insuring 
will change as a result. Thats not unreasonable. 
And I cant ignore  that using 2007 as the point  from which the refund is made has the effect 
of putting Mr T back in the position of the sale of the new policy never  taking place (and of 
freezing the price at the 2007 rate). I think thats fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to resolve  this complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited should pay Mr T £495.45 in 
settlement of his complaint together with the interest* at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple a year from the date Mr T paid the premiums to the date it pays Mr T. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
*If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr T a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0425803