K822xcomplaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Santander UK plc treated him when he tried to make an 
international transfer. 
background 
On Monday 10 December  2018, Mr N visited  a branch of Santander. He deposited £5,000 in 
cash into his current account. Mr N than asked Santander to transfer  this amount to another 
person who lived abroad.  He says he was told this transaction  would  take three working 
days to complete. 
But by the end of the week, the money  hadnt arrived.  When Mr N called  Santander, he says 
he was told it would  take five working days, not three as hed previously  been  told. When 
Mr N chased this up the following week, he says he was told that the International Payment 
team had resolved the issue and he got a text message confirming this. 
But the money still hadnt arrived in the other persons account. Mr N continued  to chase 
Santander. The bank  apologised for the delay. Santander then told him it needed to do 
further checks to comply with legal  and regulatory  requirements. 
Mr N complained. Santander rejected his complaint. It repeated  that his transfer had been 
stopped for additional checks.  The bank also said Mr N had been  given correct  information 
throughout this process. 
Mr N wasnt happy with this. He brought his complaint  to us where it was looked  at by one of 
our adjudicators. While  she was investigating the complaint, Santander  accepted that it took 
longer than it would  normally  expect to carry out its additional checks. It offered to pay Mr N 
£50 for this. 
Our adjudicator thought that Santander should increase this to £100. This was due to the 
size of the transfer and the length of the delay. Santander agreed to this increase. But Mr N 
didnt accept this offer. 
In brief,  he said hed received £5,000 back in his account in February 2019. When he called 
Santander, it couldnt tell him where  this money  was from. He also told us he thinks 
Santander has discriminated  against  him due to his religious name and background. 
Mr N said he wanted a letter of apology from Santander and for the individuals involved in 
the transfer to be investigated. He also originally wanted his £25 transfer fee refunded,  but 
later said he would leave  this in order to resolve  this issue  quicker. 
Santander readily agreed to apologise. It sent Mr N a letter  apologising for the time it took to 
complete its additional checks. Santander  also confirmed it had looked into his concerns that 
it hadnt respected his religious background. The bank said it had found no evidence of this. 
But it was sorry if Mr N was made to feel this way. 
But Mr N didnt think this resolved his complaint. Again in brief, he said he wanted the 
individuals involved in the actual transfer investigated and for our service  to double  check 
the investigation notes. Mr N said once this had been done, he would accept the £100  
already offered. He later added  he also now wanted the £25 transfer  refunded. Hed 
previously said to leave  this to try and resolve his complaint. But it hadnt been resolved. 
Ref: DRN03651732As Mr N remains unhappy, his complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Santanders offer 
to pay Mr N £100 is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think are the key issues 
here: did Santander treat Mr N unfairly when it delayed his international transfer;  and is its 
offer of £100 for poor service fair and reasonable? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Ill now turn to whether Santander  has treated Mr N unfairly. He maintains that the transfer 
was delayed by the bank  because of his religious name and background. In other  words,  
Santander discriminated against him. I can fully understand why Mr N would have been very 
upset if he felt he was being treated differently to someone who has different religious 
beliefs. 
I would point out here that its not our role to say if Santander has acted unlawfully or 
discriminated against Mr N  thats for a court to decide. Our role is to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
To do that, there are a number of things that I have to take into account. These include: what 
I consider to be good industry practice;  and, the relevant law. One of the relevant laws here 
is the Equality  Act 2010. So, although  it would be for a court  to decide  if Santander  breached 
the Act, I need  to take this into account  when thinking about whether it treated Mr N fairly. 
Ive thought about whether Santander treated Mr N less favourably than someone  without 
his religious name and background. From  the available evidence, Im satisfied it didnt. 
Mr N wanted to make an international transfer. He was correctly told these usually (my 
emphasis) take three  working days. Mr N says when  he first spoke to Santander to chase up 
the transfer, he was told it would take five working  days, not three. But thats not quite right.  
Ive listened to that phone call. Santander  again  correctly told Mr N that such transfers 
usually take three working days. It also said that he would have to wait five working days  
before the bank  could put a trace  on the payment. Clearly that isnt the same as being  told 
that the transfer would  usually take five working days, not three. It seems to me that Mr N 
simply misunderstood what  he was told. I think this is perfectly  natural  given  his concern 
over his transfer. 
On another call, Mr N says he was unreasonably instructed to go back  to the branch that 
hed used to make the transfer to provide his identification documents.  But again, this isnt 
quite right. The person in the Santander call centre  told Mr N he couldnt  see why there  was 
Ref: DRN03651733a delay, but it could be that additional security checks  were needed or that some of the 
information was wrong.  
The adviser told Mr N it could see the money had left his account but if he wanted  more 
information hed need to go back to the branch. The adviser also recommended that when 
going to the branch Mr N should  take proof  of his account ownership, such as his card, and 
photographic identification. 
Im satisfied Santander wasnt telling Mr N he had to do this. But instead, the adviser  was 
trying to be helpful. I think he was recommending what identification documents the branch 
staff might  need to see in order  to be able to give Mr N the information he was looking for. I 
dont think it was a compulsory instruction. Nor do I think it was unreasonable.  
I can see that when  Mr N spoke to Santander  again,  it apologised  for the delay. The bank 
also told Mr N, that in line with all other banks in the UK, it needed  to carry out additional  
checks to meet legal  and regulatory requirements.  Santanders  final response letter repeated  
that it had a right to complete additional  checks.  
By their very nature,  the details of these legal and regulatory checks arent in the public 
domain. Nor would I expect Santander to go into any detail about these. Im satisfied  the 
bank acted fairly and reasonably when it delayed Mr Ns transfer to carry out these checks. 
I also dont think that Santander carried out these checks because of Mr Ns religious name 
and background.  As above,  such payments are subject to legal and regulatory  requirements. 
This can lead to transfers being delayed. Ive frequently seen these additional checks being  
carried out on bank  customers from many differing walks of life and backgrounds. Theres  
nothing in the available evidence that shows Mr Ns transfer was more  likely to be delayed 
than a transfer made by someone  from a different religious  background. 
Ive also looked  at the return of the £5,000 to Mr Ns account. This happened on 11 February 
2019. When he queried this, he told us Santander didnt know where this money  had come 
from. But again, this isnt quite right. Ive listened  to this phone  call. The bank asks Mr N if 
hed made  an international transfer. He said he had and that there  was a dispute with our 
service about it. 
The adviser told Mr N that while she didnt have any real details about this payment to his 
account, it may have  something to do with the international  transfer.  This isnt the same as 
Santander telling Mr N it didnt know where  the money came from. Instead, I think the 
adviser, while trying to help Mr N, was also wary about our involvement in his complaint and 
didnt want to be seen  to be interfering.  
Once again, the available evidence doesnt show Mr N was treated differently  here because  
of his religious name and background. Im satisfied that a person from any background 
would have got a similar response from Santander.  
Im pleased to see Santander wrote  to Mr N apologising for the time it took to complete the 
additional checks  and that it said sorry if Mr N was made to feel the bank didnt respect 
diversity and religion. 
While Im satisfied  Santander didnt delay Mr Ns transfer because of his religious name and 
background, I do think the service it provided  does  mean it should compensate him. The 
bank accepts the additional  checks took longer than it would  normally  expect. As above, its 
apologised to Mr N for this. 
Ref: DRN03651734Ive thought about how this delay affected  Mr N. I can understand he would have been 
worried by this. But Santander did let him know the transfer needed  additional checks. So, 
Mr N should reasonably have known his money  hadnt gone missing. 
Ive borne in mind that the transfer  and additional checks all took place over the Christmas  
and New Year holiday period. This means  Santanders opening hours would have been 
reduced because  of Bank Holidays, and inevitably many of its staff would  have been  on 
annual leave. While this doesnt excuse the level of service provided to Mr N, it does give it 
some context. In the circumstances here,  Im satisfied  that Santanders offer of £100 is fair 
and reasonable.  
Ive also thought about whether Santander  should refund the £25 transfer  fee. I can see the 
payment was returned to Mr Ns account by an intermediary for the receiving  bank. It wasnt  
down to Santander. So theres  no basis for me to tell it to refund the payment to him. 
I can see Mr N told our adjudicator he wasnt expecting  a huge amount of compensation, but 
he wanted a reasonable  and fair amount  that gives Santander a bit of pain and punishment. 
I would make it clear here that we dont  regulate  banks. We have no power  to fine or punish 
them. Our role is to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of individual 
complaints. Thats what Ive done here. 
I can also see that Mr N wants the individuals involved  in the actual transfer  to be 
investigated. He then wants our service  to double check this investigation. But we 
investigate complaints against businesses  as corporate entities, rather than against 
individual staff members.
 As above,  Ive investigated whether Santander  has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I dont 
doubt Mr Ns strength of feeling here.  As above,  I can fully understand why he would have 
felt so upset. But after looking  at all the available evidence, I dont think  the transfer was 
deliberately delayed. Im satisfied the delay was down  to the additional checks  and an 
element of poor customer service. 
I will also make  the following observations. Ive listened to numerous calls between  Mr N and 
Santander. I found all the bank advisers  to be unfailingly polite and all tried to help. Apart 
from the transfer being delayed, Mr N seems  to have had a positive relationship with the 
bank. I hope that going  forward,  this will be the case once  more.  
I know Mr N feels  it was the actual individuals involved in handling his transaction that 
caused the delay. But Im satisfied the additional  checks that were required were  nothing out 
of the ordinary. They were simply usual industry  practice. As above,  Ive seen delays due to 
such additional checks numerous times.  
In summary,  I dont think Santander  treated  Mr N unfairly or unreasonably due to his 
religious name and background. But I do think it provided him with a poor level service.  As 
above, Im satisfied in the individual circumstances here, Santanders offer of £100 for this is 
fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN03651735my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc should  pay Mr N £100 in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr N to accept  or reject  my decision before  3 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0365173