K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) wrongly allowed him to open an 
inappropriate CFD trading  account before he became a professional client  and that it 
misapplied margin closures to specific list(s) of open  positions. A third issue about another  
group of positions is being addressed by Plus500 separately.
background
Mr B appears to have  had two accounts which became  professional accounts around May 
and August 2018 respectively. His first complaint issue  is that his lack of CFD trading 
experience meant Plus500 should not have allowed him to open the accounts initially in 
2017. He says his lack of experience, which he disclosed in the application process,  and the 
leveraged nature of CFD trading made the account(s) inappropriate for him according to 
regulations.
The second  complaint issue is about  a list of positions/trades to which  Mr B says margin 
closures should have been applied but were  not, leading to increased losses.  Furthermore, 
he says the manner in which closures were applied to a list of mixed positions  was 
unpredictable and that Plus500s policy statements and explanations  in this respect have 
been conflicting.
Plus500 did not uphold the complaint and it was referred to this service.  It confirmed to us 
that its positions on the issues is as follows  
The online account opening process  is automated and it has evidence  showing 
screenshots of the opening  of both accounts. The screenshots  show that warnings 
about inappropriateness of the accounts  were  given to Mr B; that he consented to 
proceed with the first account despite  the warning; and that, upon the warning being 
triggered, the account could not have been opened through  the automated system 
without such consent. It says the evidence shows express  consent  from Mr B for the 
first account and a N/A in the consent  section for the second  account because he 
had obtained some experience in CFD trading by the time the second account was 
opened, but nevertheless the warning  was triggered for both account  openings.
The margin closures Mr B expected during  the time he held a professional account(s) 
were not applicable in such accounts, based  on the terms  of the account. It was not 
obliged to apply  such closures. However,  it accepts  that from August 2018  its policy  
was to apply such closures to both retail and professional accounts and that this had 
not been applied to Mr Bs trades.  The below-margin closures that Mr B has 
complained about  do not apply to his trades prior to August 2018. In terms of his 
trades thereafter, it has compensated him for the losses  he made  from the affected 
positions. It says this was generous,  given that the compensation was a greater 
amount than the total of the difference between the levels at which his positions 
should have been  closed  and the levels at which they were closed. 
The terms for the accounts  and its Margin Close-Out Policy entitled it to use 
discretion in the manner in which margin close outs were applied,  they also warned 
that such close outs will depend on various  factors and that no conclusions about  
how future margin closures will be applied  should  be derived from previous margin 
closures. It accepted  that, upon  notice  from Mr B, it realised that the policy was 
missing from the version of the Key Information  Document (KID) published  in Mr Bs 
first language (which  is not English). In this respect  it gave Mr B a goodwill payment,  
but it says the fact remains  that its discretion over the application  of margin  close  
Ref: DRN02951452outs was in the terms for the accounts  agreed  with Mr B, so its position remains  
unchanged by the omission in the KID.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She assisted Mr B in presenting the third 
issue (which involves a number of matters) to Plus500 and, following that, it has been  under 
separate treatment.  In terms  of the issues in the present  complaint,  she concluded that the 
complaint should  not be upheld for broadly  similar  reasons to those  given by Plus500.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome.  In the main,  he disputed  receipt  of any inappropriateness 
warnings and he questioned why conflicting information about  the margin close  out process 
 that is, on the one hand reference to Plus500s  discretion  and then on the other hand its 
statement about closing  smallest positions first (with  no definition  of smallest)  has been 
ignored and has not been  used as a basis to uphold his complaint. The investigator repeated  
that evidence  showed the inappropriateness warnings being triggered in the opening of his 
accounts; and that the agreed terms with Plus500  permitted its discretion in applying margin  
close outs. The complaint was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In terms of the lists of specific  positions 
featured in the complaint,  I have considered the same lists as addressed  by the investigator 
in her letter of 2 January 2019.
Appropriateness of Mr Bs accounts
My conclusion in this respect  is the same  as the investigators, for the following reasons:
Appropriateness,  as defined by regulations, is assessed on the basis  of information  
from a client to a firm about whether the client has sufficient knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks involved in the service or product offered by the 
firm.
A firm is not required to notify  its client if the assessment concludes that its service or 
product is appropriate. However  it is obliged to warn its client if the assessment 
concludes that its service or product is not appropriate and its warning can be in a 
standardised format.  If, despite  the warning, the client wishes to proceed with the 
service or product the firm has discretion to do so  having regard to the 
circumstances.
As the investigator  noted, we have  been given evidence of screenshots  related to the 
online automated  opening process for Mr Bs accounts. Both screenshots summarise  
responses from Mr B to questions that were put to him in the automated assessment 
of appropriateness.  The responses  reflect his lack of CFD trading experience. This is 
consistent with his assertion that he lacked  such experience when he opened the 
account, so the screenshot accurately captures his response in this respect and its 
contents (which also include his responses to questions  about wider trading 
experience, knowledge  and economic profile) appear to be reliable. On the basis  of 
the responses from Mr B during the online assessment, the following warning was 
issued for each account  Based on the answers  you provided in the Assessment of 
Appropriateness section of the Questionnaire you completed  earlier, together with 
Ref: DRN02951453the risks associated with CFD trading, we do not consider that a CFD account is 
appropriate for you. [my emphasis]
As noted  earlier, the warning for the first account  shows  Mr Bs consent  with a 
Yes  to proceed despite the warning. I accept Plus500s explanation about  the 
response for the warning related to the second  account and about it being impossible 
for the first account to have been  opened  in the course of the online automated 
process without Mr Bs express consent  to proceed despite the warning. Such 
automated CFD account opening  processes which are dependent on such  consent to 
inappropriateness warnings are common in the industry and I have not seen 
evidence to cast doubt over the implication that Mr B could only have opened his 
account after consenting to do so despite the warning  the screenshot  evidence,  in 
itself, shows this.
As stated above, the regulations permit a firm to exercise its discretion to proceed  
with a service, having regard to the circumstances, where a client  has decided  to 
proceed with the same  service  despite  the warning. This is what Plus500 did in 
Mr Bs case  and I have not seen  evidence of wider circumstances which  ought  
reasonably to have  stopped it from doing so. Overall and on balance, I am persuaded 
that Plus500 did nothing wrong  in allowing Mr B to open his account(s).
Below-Margin Close Outs
I consider this issue to have been  resolved by the compensation that Plus500  gave  Mr B to 
cover his losses from the affected trades. Like the investigator,  I too consider this a fair 
resolution of the matter.  
Application of Margin Close Outs
I appreciate the point  that Mr B appears to be most concerned about in this respect.  I too 
have identified statements,  which could be perceived as conflicting or confusing, within 
information passed between the parties  on the application of margin  close  outs in his 
account. However, the accounts were defined  by an execution only service, within  which it 
was primarily  Mr Bs responsibility to make  himself aware of the terms that applied to his 
trading activities within  the accounts. 
The 2017  version of the agreed terms has been  shared with us. It confirms  the execution 
only service in which Plus500 provided no advice; it explains the effect of trading  on margin 
and the account holders  responsibility in managing such trading  and in monitoring the 
relevant margin levels;  and it explains its discretion in terms of applying margin close  outs to 
any and all open positions  after a margin breach. Based on these agreed terms, I do not 
consider that Plus500 was bound to apply margin close outs in a specific  or consistent  
manner or in the manner that Mr B asserts. This does not mean it was entitled to apply them  
unfairly, but I am not persuaded  by evidence that it applied them unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 24 June 2019.
Ref: DRN02951454Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0295145