K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1996. Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs H  she 
clearly feels very strongly about her complaint. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision below.
Mrs H says that she applied for her credit card through the post, and that she didnt tick to 
select PPI. She says that when her credit  account  was opened, PPI was added  
automatically, so she thought this was a pre-requisite of a successful application.  
Barclays doesnt know how the credit card and PPI were sold as the sale was so long ago, 
but this isnt surprising  the sale took place  nearly  23 years ago and businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. It has been able to confirm  that the credit card and PPI 
started on the same day, and when it investigated  the complaint, looked  at the sale as if it 
had made  a recommended sale in branch, which means it needed to take further  steps when 
selling PPI, so as not to disadvantage  Mrs H.
Given what we know about sales that took place by post or in branch, a customer wouldve 
had to make  an active choice in taking the PPI, either by ticking  a box, or by signing to select 
the policy. Unfortunately, due to the time thats passed, it doesnt have a copy of Mrs Hs 
credit card application, but as Ive previously said, this isnt surprising or unusual.
So while I have taken  in to account what Mrs H has said, I simply dont have enough to say 
that Barclays didnt  give Mrs H a choice in taking out the PPI, and I cant  uphold her 
complaint for this reason.
If Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs H, it had to take further steps to check that the PPI 
was right for her. Mrs H, understandably, cant recall what  sick pay she was entitled  to, or 
much about  her personal circumstances from the time  so I dont have  anything  to suggest 
that the PPI wasnt  suitable for her. And she hasnt said anything that shows she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it could have been  useful  for her if something went  wrong. 
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
Ref: DRN08961372Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0896137