K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains about payday loans she took out with Express Finance (Bromley)
Limited, trading  as Payday  Express, (EFL). She said that EFL shouldnt have given her the
loans as they were  unaffordable.
background
Mrs W took out six payday loans and nine top up loans with EFL between June 2012 and
July 2014 as follows:
Loan number Date of Loan Loan amount
1. 12/6/2012 £100
2. 1/8/2012 £200
3. 30/6/2013 £100
3a 12/7/2013 £100
3b 13/7/2013 £100
3c 3/9/2013 £100
4. 29/11/2013 £250
4a 7/12/2013 £100
4b 12/12/2013 £70
4c. 13/1/14 £70
4d. 28/1/2014 £70
5. 3/6/2014 £100
5a. 6/6/2014 £150
5b. 14/6/2014 £70
6 2/7/2014 £100
She said that the loans had trapped her in a debt spiral with the repayments  taking  so much
of her wages  that she had to borrow again to cover her next months  expenses. Her income
was around £1,200 and her expenditure was around £1,170 so she said that this showed
she couldnt afford the loans. Mrs W also said that her credit  report  would have shown other
debt repayments  and problems including late payments and defaults.
EFL said in its final response letter that the repayments for Loans  1 to 4a were low value and
appeared to be affordable based  on the information Mrs W had declared  and its credit
check. But EFL said about its remaining loans that it should have asked more  questions and
done more checks. It told Mrs W that if she provided  her bank statements and credit report, it
would look at these  loans again. It also appears  to have refunded  the interest Mrs W paid on
Loans 5a and 5b (but not the interest paid on Loan  5).
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator said that EFLs checks werent sufficient on Loans  1, 2, and 4 to 6. And she
concluded that Loans 4 to 6 werent  sustainable.  She said that EFL should:
- Refund  all interest and charges that Mrs W paid on Loans  4 to 6;
- Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the
  date of settlement*;
- Remove any negative information  about Loans 4 to 6 from Mrs Ws credit file
.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give 
Ref: DRN07147432Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
EFL didnt provide  a response to the adjudicators view.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W 
and to EFL on 14 May 2019. I summarise my findings:
I noted that EFL appeared to have refunded the interest paid on Loans 5a and 5b. So I said 
that I didnt  intend to investigate these loans. But as the interest hadnt been refunded on 
Loan 5, I said that I would still investigate  Loan  5 and would refer to Loans  5a and 5b to 
provide context for other  borrowing and in my redress  award later in the decision.
I explained that EFL was required  to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to make 
sure Mrs W could afford to repay each of the loans before it lent to her. Those  checks  
needed to be proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs W was borrowing, the length of 
the agreements  and her lending  history. But there was no set list of checks  it had to do.
But I said that the guidance  in place at the time of Loans 1 to 4d was clear about  the 
responsibility of the lender to take reasonable steps  to ensure that a borrower could  
sustainably repay  their loans. The Office  of Fair Tradings  (OFT) Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance said that assessing affordability was a borrower-focussed test which involved a 
creditor assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific  credit  commitment, or specific  
additional credit  commitment,  in a sustainable manner, without the borrower  incurring 
(further) financial difficulties. The guidance  also said that repaying  credit in a sustainable 
manner meant being able to repay  credit  out of income and/or available savings and 
without undue difficulty.  And it defined undue difficulty as being able to repay credit while  
also meeting other debt repayments and normal/reasonable outgoings  and without having 
to borrow further  to meet these repayments.
Loans 5 onwards were regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority. Its regulations  for
lenders are set out in its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook and are similar to those from the OFT
in many respects.
EFL had told us about the checks it did before agreeing to lend to Mrs W. It said that it had 
made credit checks although  Id not seen the results of these. And I noted  that it asked her 
about her income  before  all the loans  and her expenditure from Loan  3 onwards.
For Loan 1, EFL had recorded Mrs Ws income as £750. It didnt appear that EFL had
obtained details  of Mrs Ws expenditure at this stage. Id noted that the loan repayment 
amount of £129  was relatively modest  compared to Mrs Ws declared  income  of £750. And 
there was little to suggest to EFL at this stage that Mrs W wasnt using the loan in the way it 
was intended   as a short term solution to a temporary cash flow problem. So I didnt think  
EFL was wrong to agree  to this loan.
Mrs W took out Loan 2 just over a month later and the repayment had doubled to £258.  EFL
appeared to have used the same  income amount here. But I thought the repayment amount 
was a significant proportion of Mrs Ws self-declared income. So I didnt think  that it was
proportionate for EFL to simply rely on Mrs Ws self-declared income. I thought it would have
been reasonable here for EFL to have  at least enquired about Mrs Ws normal living costs
and regular financial commitments.  I couldnt  see that it did this.
Ref: DRN07147433Mrs W borrowed Loan 3 around nine months  after Loan 2 was repaid. Loan  2 was repaid
late as it appeared  to have been  deferred  twice. But I thought  the gap between repayment of
Loan 2 and borrowing Loan 3 was a significant gap, and long enough to have made EFL 
think that Mrs Ws finances had returned to a more secure footing. So I thought that EFL 
could have approached Loan 3 as though it was lending to Mrs W for the first time. The loan 
repayment amount  was £129. And Mrs W had declared increased income of £1,200, 
housing expenses of £100 and credit  repayments of £150. Id also noted  that EFL had 
considered statistical  expenditure of £260.98. I thought the repayment amount was relatively 
modest compared to Mrs Ws declared disposable  income. And I thought it was 
proportionate for EFL to consider Mrs Ws declared  income and adjusted  expenditure, 
without making further checks for Loan  3. So, I didnt think  EFL had done anything  wrong  in 
giving Loan 3 to Mrs W.
Mrs W then topped up Loan 3 by £100  (Loan 3a) twelve days  after taking  Loan  3 out.
Mrs Ws disposable income remained the same. I thought the joint repayment amount for 
both Loans 3 and 3a was still relatively modest  compared to Mrs Ws disposable  income. So 
at this stage of its lending, I didnt think EFL needed to make  further  checks for Loan 3a.
But Mrs W then borrowed Loan 3b a day after Loan 3a. I thought the total repayment 
amounts for Loans 3, 3a and 3b were  a significant proportion of Mrs Ws income.  I thought 
that EFL should  have  been concerned about  the frequency  of Mrs Ws loan requests despite 
the amount of her disposable  income. I thought they might  have suggested  to EFL that 
Mrs W was using short term loans as a supplement  to her normal  income,  rather than using 
them to meet a temporary one-off problem. So by the time of Loan 3b I thought it would have 
been proportionate for EFL to have  asked Mrs W whether  she was taking short term loans 
from other lenders  at the same time.  I couldnt  see that it did this.
It then appeared  that Mrs W deferred repayment  of some of her borrowing and she then
borrowed Loan 3c around seven weeks after Loan 3b. In view of the deferred  loans and
frequency of the borrowing, I thought it would have again been  proportionate for EFL to have
asked Mrs W before Loan 3c if she was taking other  short term loans at the same time. I
couldnt see that it did this.
When Mrs W took Loan 4, the repayment amount had increased to £322.50  and her 
disposable income remained the same. I thought the number of deferrals and top ups taken 
by Mrs W might have  suggested by that time that Mrs Ws finances were under  pressure.  
And I thought Mrs Ws loans were by this time being taken sufficiently regularly to show  that 
Mrs W was reliant  on them. By this time, I also thought it should  have been  clear to EFL that 
it could no longer rely on the information Mrs W had provided, and that it should look in 
much more depth at Mrs Ws true financial situation  to assess  the affordability of its lending. 
It couldve done this in a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence  of Mrs Ws income 
and expenditure  such  as payslips and bills, or it couldve looked at things  like her bank
statements. I didnt think it was proportionate at this stage  in Mrs Ws borrowing history  to 
have still relied on the information declared  by Mrs W and that shown  in its credit checks. 
And for the same reasons when Mrs W took out four top ups (Loans  4a to 4d) to Loan 4 and 
Loans 5 and 6, I thought it would have been  proportionate for the same checks  to have been 
carried out as for Loan 4.
Although I didnt think the checks EFL did for Loans  2, and 3b to 6 were sufficient, that in
itself didnt mean that Mrs Ws complaint about  these loans should succeed.  I also needed to
see whether what I considered to be proportionate  checks would have shown EFL that 
Ref: DRN07147434Mrs W couldnt sustainably afford Loans 2, and 3b to 6. So Id looked  at Mrs Ws bank 
statements and where appropriate her credit  report, and what  shed told us about her 
financial situation, to see what  better  checks would have shown EFL.
Id noted that Mrs Ws bank account was a joint bank account with her husband. Mrs W had 
explained to us that they each paid half of all household bills including the mortgage.
Loan 2
With regard to Loan 2, as Id said above,  I would have expected EFL to have  asked Mrs W 
about her living costs and regular  financial commitments. Id looked  at Mrs Ws bank 
statements to see what better checks would have suggested to EFL, whilst taking account of 
Mrs Ws declared income of £750. Id noted  from Mrs Ws bank statements that normal  living  
costs and regular  financial commitments  had amounted to around  £2,200.  So if Mrs Ws 
share of the household bills amounted to £1,100 and if EFL had carried  out what  I 
considered to be proportionate  checks before Loan  2, I thought  it was likely that it would 
have concluded  that Loan 2 wasnt sustainable.
Loans 3b and 3c
With regard to Loans 3b and c, as Id said above,  I would have expected EFL to have  asked 
about Mrs Ws other short term credit commitments  whilst taking  into account Mrs Ws 
adjusted disposable  income of £689.02. Id reviewed Mrs Ws credit report  and noted  that 
shed taken out other short term lending  of almost £1,600 at least  part of which if not all 
required repayment around the same  time as Loan  3b. Id also seen Mrs Ws bank statement 
for the month before  Loan 3b which showed  further borrowing of £925.  Mrs W had told us 
that she had taken out all the short term loans. So if EFL had carried  out what  I considered  
to be proportionate checks before Loan 3b, I thought it was likely that it would have 
concluded that Loan 3b wasnt sustainable.
Id also reviewed Mrs Ws credit report with regard to Loan  3c and noted that she had other
short term lending repayments of around £344 which required repayment around the same
time as Loan  3c. Id also seen Mrs Ws bank statement for the month before Loan 3c which
showed further short term borrowing of £975. I understood from what  Mrs W had told us that
she had taken this out. So, if EFL had carried out what I considered to be proportionate  
checks before Loan 3c, I thought it was likely  that they would have suggested  that Loan 3c 
wasnt sustainable. So as a responsible lender,  I didnt think  it would have  considered this to 
be a sustainable  loan.
Loans 4 to 4d
As Id said above,  by the time of Loan 4, I would have expected EFL to have made  detailed
checks on Mrs Ws financial  situation,  for example by checking Mrs Ws bank statements at
the time of these  loans. The bank statements might not have shown EFL everything it
wouldve seen by carrying out proportionate  checks.  But I thought that the bank statements 
were the best indication  of Mrs Ws ability to afford  the loans at the time they were approved. 
So I didnt think it was unreasonable to rely on these.
As I stated above the bank statements were joint bank statements. And as Id said above,
Mrs W said she paid for half of the living costs and that she had taken out any short term
borrowing. If EFL had independently checked Mrs Ws information,  it would have seen  that
Mrs W was earning  a little more than shed declared, around £1,464. But, it also would have
Ref: DRN07147435become aware  that her share of regular expenditure amounted  to around £1,250 and she
had taken short term loans totalling  £400 which  would have been repayable around the
same time as Loan 4. So, if EFL had carried out what Id considered to be proportionate 
checks before Loan 4, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that Loan  4 wasnt 
sustainable. And I also thought it was likely that it would have concluded  that the repayments 
for the top up loans to Loan  4 (Loans 4a to 4d) werent sustainable for the same reasons.
Loan 5
If EFL had independently checked Mrs Ws information before Loan 5, it would have seen
that Mrs W was earning a little more  than shed declared, around £1,303. But, it also would
have become aware that her share  of regular  expenditure  amounted  to around £1,090  and
she had taken short term loans totalling £174  in the month before Loan 5 which  would have
been repayable around the same  time as Loan 5. So, if EFL had carried  out what Id 
considered to be proportionate  checks before Loan  5, I thought  it was likely that it would 
have concluded  that Loan 5 wasnt sustainable.
Loan 6
If EFL had independently checked Mrs Ws information before Loan 6, it would have seen
that Mrs W was earning around the same as shed declared, around  £1,247.  Shed also
appeared to have received additional income of £224 from her employer later that month.  
But, EFL also would  have  become aware that her share of regular expenditure amounted to 
around £1,163  and she had taken short term loans totalling £322 in the month before Loan 6 
which would have been repayable around  the same time as Loan 6. So, if EFL had carried  
out what Id considered to be proportionate  checks before Loan 6, I thought it was likely  that 
it would  have concluded that Loan  6 wasnt sustainable.
In summary  I thought  the checks EFL did for Loans  1, 3 and 3a were proportionate. But I 
didnt think EFL had done enough  checks for any of the remaining loans. I thought 
proportionate checks would have shown EFL the state of Mrs Ws finances and that she 
couldnt afford to sustainably repay  Loans  2, 3b, 3c, and Loans 4 onwards. So, I thought that 
EFL needed to pay Mrs W some  compensation relating to Loans 2, 3b, 3c, and Loans 4 
onwards (other than the interest on Loans  5a and 5b which  it had already refunded). To 
settle the complaint, I thought EFL should refund all the interest  and charges applied  to 
Mrs Ws accounts for Loans 2, 3b, 3c, and Loans  4 onwards (excluding Loans  5a and 5b), 
and pay 8% simple interest on those  refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. Any adverse  information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file with regard to Loans  2, 
3b, 3c, and Loans 4 onwards should also be removed.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs W or EFL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Express  Finance (Bromley) 
Limited, trading  as Payday  Express, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mrs W paid on Loans 2, 3b, 3c, and 4 onwards
    (excluding Loans 5a and 5b);
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;  and
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  2, 3b, 3c, and 4 onwards from
    Mrs Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give
Ref: DRN07147436Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax it had taken off if she asks for one.
Both Mrs W and EFL responded to my provisional  decision  to say that they had no further 
comments to add, and EFL said that it agreed  with my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both Mrs W and EFL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  It follows  that I uphold 
part of the complaint and require EFL to pay Mrs W some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Express Finance (Bromley) Limited, trading as Payday Express, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mrs W paid on Loans 2, 3b, 3c, and 4 onwards
    (excluding Loans 5a and 5b);
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;  and
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  2, 3b, 3c, and 4 onwards from
    Mrs Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax it had taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0714743