K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about a life assurance  policy they were advised to take out by HSBC  
Bank Plc in 2003. In summary, they say the policy only had a term of 15 years and they were 
unaware of this. Also, they werent made aware  that the policy  had no cash-in  value or that 
there was not an option to continue with it for longer.
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. He was of the opinion  that it wouldve  
been clear from the documentation provided to Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale that the 
policy only had a term of 15 years and no cash-in  value.  And, overall, the adjudicator  didnt 
consider that the advice was unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed saying, in summary:
At the very least they were given bad advice. Banks are supposed to give the best 
advice for their situation, knowing  that they had five children  to consider.
If it was only necessary to cover  the loan then that is what  they would have done and 
they wouldnt have  gone to the expense of £200,000 worth of cover.  
They believe they were sold a policy that was not in their best interests but that would  
maximize any commission the adviser  would receive.
Mis-selling at this time was endemic throughout HSBC.
As the adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion,  the matters  been referred to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
I note all that Mr and Mrs S have said about  them  wanting cover to continue  and for it being 
for more than the borrowing  it was intended  to cover. But looking at the documentation 
produced at the time of the sale, its difficult to see that this was anything  other  than a 
suitable recommendation, consistent  with their apparent needs and circumstances. 
The fact find recorded  that they were taking new borrowing of £120,000 for a 15 year term, 
for which obtaining life cover was a condition. And in doing  so they were also looking for 
additional family protection. A level term policy providing £200,000 seems reasonable in the 
circumstances. And it was noted that other, alternative methods of obtaining the cover were 
also discussed. Moreover, it was made clear in the documents that the cover would only last 
for 15 years. 
I dont doubt that it came  as surprise to Mr and Mrs S in May 2018  when  they received the 
letter from HSBC telling  them that the policy had expired.  But if they were under the 
impression that the policy was going  to last until one or both of them passed away  I cant see 
that HSBC can be held responsible for that misunderstanding. 
Ref: DRN04352762Theyve highlighted a number of examples of financial mis-selling  that have taken place over 
the years. And while I can see how reading  about  this type of behaviour might dent their 
confidence in banks and other financial service providers, in this case I dont think  theres  
any persuasive evidence  that any mis-selling has occurred. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0435276