K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC Bank plc has told her that she still owes money  on her 
managed loan account when it had previously said that it would be coming to an end and 
had cancelled her direct debit for her repayments.
background
Mrs M set up a managed  loan with HSBC in 2005.  In 2008 it was agreed Mrs M could make 
reduced payments  towards it from £260  a month  to £160. This shouldve  meant  the term of 
the loan was extended to account for the lower  repayments but it wasnt.  
Mrs M continued  to believe that the end date of her loan would be the same as it was 
originally  November  2017. When it came  to this time the balance showing on her loan was 
over £11,000, but she thought this was residual interest. She contacted HSBC and was told 
her last payment  would be in November and her direct debit was cancelled.  But this wasnt 
right, as the loan still had a balance  outstanding  and hadnt  been fully repaid. The 
cancellation of payments  meant that the loan fell into arrears.
HSBC acknowledged  that mistakes that had been  made with the details of Mrs Ms loan 
account and with the information shed been  given about it. It looked at what Mrs M wouldve 
paid towards her loan if the original payments had been kept up, and compared this to what  
she had actually paid to that point.  The difference was £4,738.20 so HSBC said it would 
reduce her loan balance  to this amount, writing off £6,934.29 of it, and would  arrange  that no 
interest would  be charged on this. 
HSBC also offered to pay Mrs M £200  to recognise its error. But it still considered  the loan 
amount was still owed.  Mrs M didnt  agree  and so didnt make any payments towards it. This 
meant that the arrears on the account built up and HSBC reported  this to credit  reference 
agencies. It issued a default notice to Mrs M in August 2018. 
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. She said 
HSBC hadnt changed the end date of the loan on its records when it should have, and it 
had offered Mrs M £200 to apologise for this. But she said that if HSBC had updated its 
system with the correct  end date to reflect the reduced repayments,  then this wouldve 
extended past the original  end date. The investigator looked at the figures HSBC had 
provided about the payments Mrs M had made,  and what  shouldve been paid if the loan 
repayments hadnt reduced, and said this showed there was still an outstanding balance.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  findings as they were told several times that 
Mrs M would  have  no more to pay after November 2017, and the debt would be cleared as it 
was interest. They said HSBC didnt have any paperwork to support the existence of the 
loan or the demand for payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03801472Its unfortunate that, because of the passage of time, HSBC hasnt been  able to provide any 
documentation about the changes  to Mrs Ms loan in 2008. But Ive taken into account  Mr 
and Mrs Ms  recollections, and Ive seen  the letter about Mr Ms loan which  I understand 
HSBC granted  a concession on in May 2008 which theyve told us was the same  agreement 
for Mrs Ms loan. Mr Ms letter said that HSBC had agreed a concession to reduce his 
repayments to an amount  representing the capital and interest  charge equivalent to 1% over 
its base rate. This could be reviewed or varied at any time. 
Ive looked over the details of Mrs Ms loan account,  which shows it started  in 2005 and was 
for £20,180. The account statements show that Mrs Ms monthly repayments were  £260 and 
I can see that these were maintained until May 2008, when  she started paying £160 a 
month. But I havent seen anything  to show specifically  that the same concession  as Mr M 
had was applied  or agreed for Mrs M. The statements show  the amount of interest charged 
each month  on the account balance, and this doesnt seem to vary when the payments 
reduced in May 2008, suggesting that the interest rate didnt  change. 
The loan capital  that she owed was gradually going  down with the repayments  she made. 
And her initial monthly payments wouldve been  set at an amount that would fully repay the 
loan if maintained over the original term. But reducing them by £100 a month  meant that 
would no longer be the case  and so this original term shouldve been extended to allow  for 
this. It wouldve meant  Mrs M wouldve continued  to pay the £160 a month  but over a longer 
time. 
HSBC sent Mrs M statements for her account  and these showed the payments she was 
making along with the outstanding  balance of the loan. So even up to the time that she 
believed her loan would  be ending, the statements  showed that over £11,000  was still to be 
paid. But Mr and Mrs M have told us that they thought this was interest which  would be 
written off at the end of the loan agreement.
HSBC made  a mistake  in not extending  the loan term which meant that its records  showed 
the original end date and this led to the incorrect  information being given to Mrs M about 
when her loan would end. So I can appreciate her strength of feeling  about the matter and 
why she feels the remaining  balance should be written off. 
However, taking everything into account,  I dont think HSBC should  be required to write off 
the full balance of the loan. I say this because it agreed to allow Mrs M to make payments 
that were less than her original agreement and less than the amount calculated to have fully 
repaid the loan by November 2017.  I havent  seen that the interest rate was changed at this 
time, and so what shes paid back hasnt fully repaid her borrowing.
HSBC has offered to pay Mrs M £200  to recognise the incorrect  information  she was giving  
about her loan end date.  And it has applied a credit to the loan balance of £6,934.29 as of 
March 2018 to bring the account  to the position it wouldve been in if shed carried  on paying 
the original £260 a month. It has also amended the information reported on Mrs Ms credit 
record between December 2017 and March 2018.  
HSBC initially said that it would stop interest  being applied to the revised outstanding 
balance, but it seems that this carried on. On my behalf, the investigator has asked HSBC 
about this and it has told us that future  interest will be stopped and a refund of interest  
applied since April 2018 will be arranged.
Ref: DRN03801473Overall, I think the action HSBC has taken  represents a fair resolution to the complaint and 
recognises the mistake  in not changing the loan end date to reflect the reduced payments.  I 
can only suggest that Mrs M looks to contact  HSBC to agree a mutually acceptable 
repayment plan for the remaining loan amount owed.
my final decision
My decision  is that HSBC Bank plc should  pay Mrs M £200,  as it has already offered  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0380147