K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK Plcs  trading platform keeps on going  down  making it 
difficult for him to trade and resulting in him making losses.
background
Mr K is a day trader and he uses Barclays smart investor platform  to trade.
In October  2018 Mr K complained to Barclays after having difficulties trading because  its 
trading platform was down.
Barclays investigated Mr Ks complaint and accepted that its trading  platform  had issues at 
the time.  Barclays offered Mr K £100  in compensation. Barclays said that Mr K had been  
able to trade by phoning up and had been  able to achieve the price hed originally wanted. 
Mr K wasnt  happy with Barclays offer and complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ks complaint. They thought Barclays offer of £100 
was fair and reasonable. Mr K didnt, saying that Barclays should  pay him £200  for each time 
hes complained  about the trading platform going down. Hes done so on four previous 
occasions  accepting offers of £100, £100,  £150  and £100. Mr K didnt agree with our 
investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  So Ive looked  into his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr K has complained to Barclays five times between  April 2018 and 
November 2018  about problems hes had with its smart investor platform. Barclays has 
offered a total of £550 in compensation in relation to these complaints, including the £100 it 
has offered to settle this complaint. Mr K has accepted all of Barclays  previous offers  this 
one is the only one he hasnt accepted.
I can see that Mr K has had a lot of problems with the smart investor platform,  and I accept 
that its more inconvenient  having  to call to make trades. In this particular case Mr K didnt 
make a loss  he sold the shares he wanted  to at the price he saw online.  So in deciding 
whether or not the offer Barclays has made is fair and reasonable, I ought to be thinking 
about the trouble and upset that Mr K has been caused. I dont agree with Mr K that I ought  
to be awarding £200  for this complaint and all the previous complaints hes made, not least 
because he agreed  to settle those previous complaints. I do, however, accept that the fact 
that Mr K had previous problems could have  made  this outage more frustrating.
Ref: DRN04248532I asked our investigator to get more details from Mr K of the impact this outage had on him. 
Mr K gave us details of times hed had difficulties  using the smart investor platform,  and 
losses hed said hed made. These details, however, relate to the previous complaints hes 
made which, as Ive mentioned above, hed settled or brought  to us. In the circumstances, 
and given the evidence Ive seen  about  the impact the October 2018 outage had on Mr K, I 
agree that the £100 compensation Barclays has offered is fair and reasonable. Ill leave it to 
Mr K to decide whether or not he wants to accept  Barclays offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc should pay Mr K £100  in compensation  the 
amount it has offered   as this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0424853