K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains about the sale of her short-term  income protection  policy by Barclays Bank 
Plc.
background
In March 2012, Ms H visited  a Barclays branch  and took out the policy.  The aim of the policy  
was to pay a monthly benefit of £250 in the event  of accident or sickness  for up to 12 
months. The monthly cost of the cover  was £12.35.
The following  year,  Ms H made a claim under the policy. The insurer noticed  her income at 
that time wasnt enough to support the monthly benefit of £250. In August 2013,  the insurer  
reduced the monthly benefit to £159.05. This was equivalent to 50% of her average earnings  
at the time, which was the maximum benefit available  under the policy.  Ms Hs monthly  
premiums were reduced to £8.76.  
Although the claim was initially turned  down  in 2013, the insurer  has since  accepted the 
claim. After receiving the claim payment, Ms H complained to us about  the amount of benefit 
she received. She said Barclays  hadnt  told her at the time of sale that she could only protect 
50% of her earnings, and she was expecting to receive a benefit  payment  of £250 a month.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought Barclays  had given 
Ms H information to make her aware she could  only protect 50% of her salary. She pointed 
out the actual  benefit payment couldnt have been known until a claim was made, because it 
would depend  on Ms Hs income  at the time.
Ms H didnt accept the adjudicators findings, so the matters been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays has confirmed the policy was sold on a non-advised basis.  That means it didnt give 
Ms H any advice about the suitability of the policy. However, it was still required to give Ms H 
enough information about the policy to allow her to make an informed decision as to whether 
to take out the cover.  
The information from the time of sale says that Ms H visited the branch to review  her 
protection needs. It was recorded  that she wanted a monthly benefit to protect  her income  if 
she couldnt work, and that she wanted  £250  cover as her income  was £500 a month. The 
Barclays representative said the maximum cover was therefore arranged  (which was 50% of 
her earnings).
Ms H signed  a checklist which said shed received a Guide to Insurance booklet and had 
been told it was important that she read it within the cooling off period. This booklet is 16 
pages long and contained the key features of the policy.  It says The maximum benefit  is 
50% of your monthly gross earned  income  to a maximum of £2,000. We will seek  proof of 
this.
Ref: DRN03894882Ms H was then sent a welcome letter by Barclays. This included a document  called 
Application Summary which explained the information in that document would be used by 
the insurer. This confirmed the monthly amount Ms H wanted in the event of a claim was 
£250. This amount was also confirmed in the policy schedule sent to Ms H after the policy  
started. 
Given that Ms H took out the policy in the branch, I cant  be sure what she was told about 
the policy by the Barclays  representative.  However,  she was given the key features of the 
policy, which did explain the maximum benefit  was 50% of income. Im satisfied  Ms H was 
therefore given  enough information about  the policy to allow her to make  an informed 
decision as to whether  to take it out.
Based on Ms Hs stated  earnings of £500 a month, the sum assured of £250 that Barclays 
arranged was appropriate as this was the maximum benefit available. If Ms Hs earnings 
were less than £500 a month, then I cant hold Barclays responsible  for not arranging  a 
lower sum assured. The maximum sum assured was arranged based on the information Ms 
H gave Barclays at the time. 
When Ms H made a claim  under the policy in 2013,  she was told she could only claim 50% 
of her income. Her average earnings before stopping  work in 2013 were  less than £500 a 
month, and so the insurer reduced her sum assured and premiums as of August 2013. 
I dont know what Ms Hs earnings were between  taking  out the policy and stopping  work in 
2013. If she hadnt earned £500  a month at all during that period, then she would have been 
over-insured from the outset. If thats  the case I would suggest she contact the insurer  to tell 
it of this. If the insurer had never been on risk to pay the full benefit of £250, wed usually  
expect it to refund a proportion of the premiums it has received to reflect this.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0389488