K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  is demanding he repays  
arrears of ground rent and service  charges  totalling about £31,000 over a period of 
12 months. 
Mr B has argued that, following the decision in the case of Cheltenham & Gloucester 
Building Society v Norgan [1996]  1 WLR 343 (the Norgan case) payment of these sums 
should be spread  over the remainder of the term of the mortgage. Mr B also wants  NatWest 
to apply normal NatWest mortgage rates to the £31,000. Mr B would also like NatWest to 
apologise to him and pay compensation  for its actions.
Because there is information in the public domain (e.g. law reports)  about Mr Bs case (in 
relation to his dispute with the freeholders property management company), I have not 
specified exact dates or monetary amounts in this decision (which will be published) in order  
to preserve Mr Bs anonymity.
background
Mr B has a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with NatWest. The majority of the mortgage  (about 
£375,000) is on an interest-only  basis. About £10,000 is on a repayment  basis.  There is just 
over seven years remaining on the mortgage term. The previous fixed rate expired in 
December 2017  and the mortgage has been on NatWests BTL variable rate since then.
To preserve  its security (and in accordance with the mortgage terms and conditions),  
NatWest paid ground rent and service charges over several years, totalling about £31,000 
(the arrears). I understand Mr B doesnt  dispute NatWests entitlement to recover  the 
arrears; what  he is unhappy about  is that NatWest wants him to repay  them over a period  of 
12 months. Mr B says this is unreasonable and in breach of the courts directions in the 
Norgan case.
Because the arrears havent been paid, NatWest has been granted  a possession order  over 
the property. Mr B applied  for permission to appeal  the possession  order.  That case was 
heard at the end of March  2019, when the court refused the application. I am told Mr B did 
not attend the hearing.
NatWest has explained  that it can, as an exception, extend the time to repay the arrears to 
five years if Mr B is able to demonstrate  from his income and outgoings that this would be 
affordable. NatWest has also declined to put the arrears  onto another interest rate. 
Mr B complained to us. An adjudicator  didnt  think the complaint  should be upheld.  Mr B 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,300 pages of documents.  Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
Ref: DRN08640372arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me.
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
Having considered everything  Mr B and NatWest have said, Im afraid I have some 
disappointing news for Mr B; Im not upholding the complaint.
Im familiar with the Norgan case. The background to this is that judges may give borrowers 
time to repay mortgage arrears before allowing a lender  to repossess their property. The 
power comes from section 36 of the Administration of Justice  Act 1970 which states  that a 
mortgage repossession  claim may be adjourned or a suspended possession  order granted  if 
a borrower is likely to pay the sums due under the mortgage within a "reasonable period".  In 
the Norgan case, the Court of Appeal decided that it was reasonable to allow the arrears  to 
be repaid over the remaining  term of the mortgage.
Mr B argues  that this is what NatWest should do in his case. But the difficulty I have with this 
argument is that the court has already decided that NatWest is entitled  to a possession  
order. If the judge had considered it was appropriate to suspend possession to allow  
repayment of the arrears  over a period of time, an order in those terms would have been 
made.
I dont have any power to overturn a court order; if Mr B thinks  he should  be allowed to repay  
the arrears over the remaining  term of the mortgage,  hell have to ask the court to vary the 
possession order. 
What I have to decide is whether NatWests decision to ask Mr B to repay the arrears over a 
12-month period  is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that it is. 
This is a BTL mortgage and so it is considered a commercial investment. The original 
mortgage terms and conditions from 2006 say that the property must be rented on an 
Assured Shorthold Tenancy under the Housing Act 1988. Although  not explicitly  stated  in the 
terms and conditions, it follows that this condition precludes it from being occupied  either  in 
whole or in part by Mr B. Thats because an Assured Shorthold Tenancy grants exclusive 
occupation of the property  to the tenants.
Because its a BTL,  this mortgage is outside the scope of mortgage regulation, in particular 
MCOB 13, which relates to the way in which lenders are required to help borrowers in 
arrears. Consequently NatWest isnt under  any obligation to spread payment of arrears  over 
the term of the mortgage.
NatWest has taken  a commercial decision that it requires the arrears to be repaid in full over 
a 12-month period. NatWest has said it would only consider extending  this as an exception.  I 
dont think this is unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.  NatWest  has had to pay from 
Ref: DRN08640373its own resources a debt legitimately owed by Mr B and I see no reason  why it should be 
required to defer reimbursement over an extended period of time.
Im also satisfied NatWest isnt required to apply a separate fixed  interest  rate to the arrears. 
NatWest has explained  that it doesnt  offer short-term  lending of this nature  and I have no 
power to order it to do so. 
In any event, Mr B always has the option  to arrange a short-term unsecured loan with 
another lender, at a fixed rate of interest  and over a period of time to match the mortgage  
end date. That would achieve his desire  to have a fixed  rate of interest,  and the term of the 
repayments spread  over the same  period  of time as the mortgage.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied NatWest  hasnt acted unreasonably or unfairly, either 
in declining to spread  payment of the arrears over the remaining mortgage term or to put the 
arrears onto a fixed interest rate.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B wanted. I can see he has had a long-standing  
dispute with his management company which I dont doubt  has been upsetting for him. Mr B 
is also unhappy at the current state  of the law in relation  to leaseholds. But whilst I dont 
underestimate his strength  of feeling about those matters, I dont think  NatWest has done 
anything wrong  in relation to the way its dealt with Mr Bs arrears.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0864037