K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc gave him a credit card,  when he says his
financial situation means they shouldnt  have. Mr P is also unhappy they increased his limit
on this credit card when he was already in financial difficulty  and says this is irresponsible
lending. Mr P also complains that Capital  One havent helped  him when hes in financial
difficulties.
Background
Mr P applied for his credit card online in January 2015. His application says he was
employed, and earning £13,000 per year, with a gross other income of £2,000  per year.
Capital One have said Mr Ps credit  limit was increased on 29 March 2016 from £200  to
£800.
In December 2018 Mr P complained to Capital  One. He said they lent to him irresponsibly
when they gave him the credit card  and its had a negative impact on him since he took out
the account. He says he started off using  the card but was missing  payments. He says they
then increased his credit limit but didnt write to him to let him know.  He says this was
inevitably going to put him further  into debt  and as they did no credit checks, this was
irresponsible lending.
Capital One replied to this complaint.  They said they checked Mr Ps credit  file during his
application  and it only showed he held a current account with his bank  and no balance
was shown on this. They said this means  there were no indications the card wasnt
affordable  and the credit  card was opened  in January 2015 with a low credit limit of £200.
Capital One go on to say Mr P was making  payments  towards the account, and sometimes  
paid the balance off. They say this showed Mr Ps ability  to repay  the debt  and so offered 
him an optional  credit  limit increase. They say they wrote out to Mr P offering and credit  limit 
increase, and if he didnt want to accept it then he could have refused it. But as they didnt 
hear back from him, the increase  to £800 was applied  on 29 March 2016. Capital One say 
based on all of this, they believe they lent to Mr P responsibly, so wont be refunding any 
interest charged, or removing any late payment markers from his credit file.
Because Mr P didnt  agree  with this, he asked us to look into things. Our case handler did
so, and ultimately said:
Capital One carried out a credit  check,  and although she couldnt see the results, his 
recent check showed no issues  so there  was no reason not to give Mr P the card 
with a £200 limit.
She also felt Capital One hadnt  acted irresponsibly  by increasing his limit to £800  
as there  was nothing  to show hed gone over his limit, and a recent  credit  file shed 
seen didnt show up any concerns.
She said she couldnt see that Mr P had told Capital One about his financial 
difficulties. And didnt think they had to refund any charges  or interest to Mr Ps 
account.
Mr P didnt accept this, so asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Ref: DRN02445692I reviewed the case, and sent a provisional  decision explaining I didnt think  this case should 
be upheld. I felt Capital  One had carried out proportionate checks  on the initial credit card 
application. I also felt theyd carried out proportionate checks  when agreeing to increase Mr 
Ps credit card limit, and I didnt think theyd acted  unfairly in relation to Mr Ps complaint 
about his financial  difficulties.
Responses to my provisional decision
Capital One replied, and said they had nothing  further to add.
Mr P also replied and provided  a substantial amount of additional  information.  Ive read 
everything Mr P has sent me.
I reconsidered everything Mr P and Capital One had said, and decided to uphold  Mr Ps 
complaint about  the credit  limit increase   I explained this to both parties. The concerns Mr P 
raised about the initial credit card application,  and the financial difficulties issue, remained as 
non-upholds.
Mr P accepted this, but Capital One didnt. Theyve provided further information for me to 
consider about  the credit  limit increase,  which Ive commented on below.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Initial credit  card application
In my provisional decision I said I thought Capital One had carried  out proportionate  checks 
at the time of granting  Mr P this credit card. And that the credit limit wasnt  unaffordable.
Mr P responded and said he accepts this part of my decision. For the avoidance  of doubt my 
decision is Capital One carried out proportionate checks when offering him the credit card  
and it wasnt irresponsible  lending.
Increase in credit limit
As Ive mentioned  above, Im now satisfied that Capital One should have carried out further 
checks to determine  Mr P was able to afford  the credit limit increase from £200  to £800.
Capital One maintain that their checks were  proportionate, so it wasnt  unfair  to increase 
Mr Ps credit  limit. Theyve  said they believe Mr P going over his limit wasnt  evidence  of 
potential financial difficulty  but rather a credit limit that was too low for his needs. They  say 
Mr P never went into arrears, paid off his balance twice, was always on time with his 
payments, and the payments always significantly reduced the balance.  Capital One also said 
they disagree with my use of information  that wasnt available to them at the time of offering 
the credit  limit increase  arguing Mr Ps excellent  payment history and lack of negative 
marks on his credit file meant  they didnt need to do more detailed  checks.
Ref: DRN02445693I understand Capital  Ones  argument   in that it perhaps isnt appropriate  to use information  
that wasnt available to them at the time.  This would be a hindsight argument.  But I think the 
point here is that Mr Ps payment  record suggested  that he may have been in financial  
difficulty and Capital  One unfairly chose  not to carry out further investigations to find out 
whether this was the case before offering to increase the credit  limit.
Capital One have referred to Mr Ps excellent payment history as evidence  of why they 
didnt need to ask for more information.  I dont think I it reasonable to say Mr Ps payment 
history was excellent, given he went over his limit on several occasions before the limit 
increase was offered. And hed told Capital One his salary was £15,000  so thinking about 
this situation again, I think Capital One should  have  carried out more  checks to determine if 
it was affordable. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ps relatively quick repayment of his arrears could also be 
evidence as Capital  One have said, of someone  who simply needs a higher payment limit. 
But where someone is earning  around £15,000  a year and their payment record suggests 
that they may have been struggling to maintain a credit limit of £200,  I think  its proportionate 
to check that they arent any issues with their finances before relying on this information to 
provide further  credit.  And as Capital One didnt explore this further before deciding  to 
increase the amount of credit and these further checks  would more likely than not have 
shown that Mr P couldnt afford any further  credit, Im satisfied that that Capital One unfairly 
increased Mr Ps credit  limit to £800.
Financial difficulties
Mr P said he entered into a repayment  plan with Capital  One and wanted to correct my 
comment that he hadnt spoken  to them before  or after September 2018.  Taking  this into 
account, Im satisfied Ive not seen anything to say he got in touch with Capital One before 
September 2018 to discuss the financial difficulties he was experiencing.
Mr P added that he wasnt offered any free debt advice, and hes not convinced Capital One 
did do everything they should.  Hes also added hes not sure if he did receive their letter 
about his persistent debt in September 2018.
But Ive not seen anything in Mr Ps response  to make me think my overall  provisional  
findings here were  incorrect. The evidence I have  shows Capital One contacting  Mr P on 
multiple occasions about his financial situation, and also show  Mr P didnt contact  them 
before September 2018 to discuss matters. Taking  everything into account,  Im satisfied  
Capital One didnt act unfairly  towards  Mr P in respect of this and I dont uphold this element  
of Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN02445694My decision
It follows I uphold this complaint in part, and to put things right Im directing Capital One 
(Europe) Plc to do the following:
Capital One should put Mr P in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt been given 
the credit  limit increase. 
A.Capital One should find out how much Mr P would have owed when he closed his 
credit card account  if the increase  hadnt been  applied.
They should  remove  any interest charged on the extra £600 lent. So this means that 
they should only apply any interest  on the first £200 of any outstanding balance. 
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr P owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have  owed if he hadnt had the increase.
B.Capital One should add simple  interest on the difference  between what Mr P would 
have owed when  he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when Capital  One works out what Mr P would have owed each month  without the 
increase  he paid more than enough to clear  his balance, Capital One should also 
pay simple interest  on the extra Mr P paid. And they should carry on paying  interest  
until the point  when Mr P would have owed Capital  One something on his credit  card.  
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.Capital One should tell Mr P what theyve done to work out A, B and C.
Capital One should also remove any adverse information theyve recorded, as a result of this 
credit limit increase.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0244569