K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs N bought the policy in 1995, at the same time as taking out a credit card.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
While I know this will disappoint Mrs N, I dont think that this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at sample copies of the credit card application Mrs N wouldve used at the time of 
her sale.  From those, I can see there wouldve  been  a section for PPI, amongst other 
optional extras. And there  wouldve been  a box that could be ticked if Mrs N wanted PPI, or 
which could be left blank  if she didnt want it. In order to get the policy,  it looks like Mrs N 
wouldve had to actively choose it, and then signed the application to confirm her choices. 
So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mrs N aware she had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that she chose  to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer 
remembers doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs N or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs N Ive assumed  they did. That 
means Lloyds had to check  the policy was right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For example, Mrs N wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI. While  she had some  limited benefits through work, the 
PPI wouldve  paid out on top of those, and it looks like it wouldve covered her for longer. So 
the policy couldve been useful for Mrs N in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs N about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations, and it could have been  useful for Mrs N in case  
something went wrong. Then if her circumstances changed or she changed her mind, Mrs N 
could cancel the policy at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont think  that better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand Mrs Ns point  that shes had a refund of other PPI policies. But even within  
the same  banking group, different PPI policies worked in different ways, and were  sold using 
different methods at different times. So even  if one policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily 
mean that a different  one was, too. And we look at each case on its own individual  merits. Ive 
explained above why I dont think that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN00553372my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0055337