K821x#15complaint
Miss Ts representative, a claims  management  company (CMC),  complains on her behalf 
that she was mis-sold  an investment by TenetConnect Services  Limited. 
In summary  it says:
Miss T didnt want excessive risk with the investment. 
She was advised  to invest too much of her money. 
Her circumstances  should  have been  taken into account. 
She should have  been  given more time to consider if the investment was the best 
option for her. 
background
In 2011, Miss T (and her then husband)  were advised to invest  £5,000 into two cash ISAs,  
and Miss T to invest  £10,000 into a Skandia  cautious managed  fund.  
At the time it was recorded:
Mrs T was married,  in her late 50s and retired. 
She had no financial  dependents  and in receipt  of a pension  income just under 
£11,800.
She had a £17,500 Skandia bond and £26,000 in cash deposits mainly from her 
pension lump sum commutation. 
Her objective was capital growth  over the medium to long term and her attitude  to 
risk was established as low/medium.  Miss T signed the document confirming its 
contents to be correct. 
In late 2014 Miss T withdrew £2,500 from the Skandia investment, in mid-2015  she withdrew 
£4,000 and in late 2016 she withdrew £1,500. In April 2017 she surrendered  the balance  
and received £3,523  so in total she received £11,532.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Using his inquisitorial remit, hes considered  the general suitability of the advice and 
wasnt satisfied that the recommendation was suitable.  
Miss Ts capital was from her pension and the residue  was the only lump sum she 
was likely to receive.  
Miss T had a Skandia investment which increased by a small amount but she was an 
inexperienced and unsophisticated  investor who was likely to have relied on the 
advice she was given,  rather  than the documentation. 
Had Miss T paid attention to the illustration  document she was unlikely to have 
invested in the Skandia  investment.  
The investment  was predominantly in fixed investment bonds  both domestic and 
global  with some  exposure  to worldwide equities. Not necessarily unsuitable but in 
this instance the costs  were  likely to have had a negative impact on the returns.   
The documentation  made clear a 1.25% annual management charge, £68.50  a year 
investor charge  and 0.2% deduction for other expenses.
Ref: DRN00802942Although the Illustration showed  the rates of return, it also showed that because of 
the associated  costs  not including the initial 3% fee deduction  the rate of growth 
would be reduced from 5% to 1.5%. 
At the same time it was offering Miss T a guaranteed instant access ISA investment 
providing a return  of 2.25% - which might  have been  higher if shed been  prepared to 
commit for a longer  period.  
Had Miss T been made aware of the returns available on longer term fixed rate ISA, 
compared to the risks associated with Skandia, she wouldnt have proceeded with 
the recommendation. 
Miss T shouldnt have been advised  to put her money at risk. 
The business disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary, it said:
The adjudicator  has suggested that Miss T was an inexperienced investor and as a 
result has assumed she wouldnt have read the documentation provided to her. The 
documentation has to be understandable  to all investors and not just experienced 
ones. 
The adjudicator  has confirmed that hes looking at the suitability of the product but 
has said that he wouldnt disagree  that the recommendation wouldnt necessarily be 
unsuitable for a low or even  a low/medium risk investor. So in essence  saying  that it 
was suitable. The business doesnt  think the cost was exorbitant  for the product, but 
disagrees with the proposed redress, if the adjudicator thinks  it was.  
The clients were advised  to invest £5,000 each, nearly up to the maximum ISA 
allowance for that year  which they did  so the advice to also invest the money 
invested in the Skandia  investment in an ISA wouldnt have been appropriate advice. 
The suitability letter explains why the bond  was suitable. 
The business attached a letter from Miss T suggesting that she had no concerns with 
the products sold to her and that the CMC  was pursuing the case.  
Our adjudicator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business  says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation was suitable in the circumstances. 
Im not persuaded that the advice to take a risk with her capital was suitable given her 
overall financial circumstances.  I note Miss T was retired, already had a similar investment, 
and was unlikely  to receive  another cash lump sum from anywhere.   
I think the adjudicator  was suggesting that the recommendation  might  not be unsuitable for a 
low or low/medium risk investor but in this instance  the advice to put her capital  at risk wasnt  
suitable. I appreciate  the business will disagree with this but on balance I dont think this was 
an unreasonable conclusion. 
Ref: DRN00802943I think its more likely than not that Miss T relied  on the advice she was given rather than on 
the documentation. I dont think it was suggested  that she wouldnt have read the information 
but rather that she relied on what she was told by the adviser.  I note she signed the 
questionnaire to confirm  the information was correct  particularly in relation to her attitude to 
risk, but I think she would have done  so on advice. 
Im not considering  whether  advice to invest in the fixed  rate ISA would  have been  suitable 
but whether the current recommendation was suitable and I dont  think  it was. And despite 
what the business says, I agree with the adjudicator that the costing was unlikely to have a 
positive impact on the returns, which Im not satisfied Miss T fully understood. 
I note what the business  says about Miss Ts letter. But notwithstanding that, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that she wished  to retract her complaint or change  her instructions to the 
CMC. Im conscious she signed  the complaint form dated May 2018, three months after her 
initial contact  with the CMC in February  2018,  and hasnt sought  to change her instructions. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Miss 
T as close to the position she would probably  now be in if she had not been  given  unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Miss T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Miss T's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  the business do?
To compensate Miss T fairly, the business  must:
Compare the performance of Miss T's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
the business should  also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Skandia 
Cautious 
Managed 
Spectrum  3 
Fund 
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
Ref: DRN00802944This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  the business  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
the business totals all those payments and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of 
deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Miss T wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking  any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Miss T's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Miss T would have  invested  only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that TenetConnect Services Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
TenetConnect Services Limited should  provide details of its calculation to Miss T in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
..
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0080294