K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr D says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy  wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain  why below.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr D didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Barclays has given us a copy  of Mr Ds credit card application 
form. This includes  a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes  to tick to show  whether or not 
the PPI was required. And the yes box has been ticked. If Mr D didnt want to take out the 
PPI he could have  ticked the no box. He has also signed the overall application which  
suggests he agreed with everything that had been  entered.
So on balance, taking  into account everything  Ive been told and seen, I think  Barclays made 
it clear the policy  was optional and Mr D agreed to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it appears  he was eligible  for the cover and he wasnt affected  by any of the main  
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as a medical condition of which  he was already 
aware.
And it looks like it could  have been  a useful  benefit to him. From what  we have been told 
Mr D wouldnt  have received any sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work and he 
doesnt appear to have  had any savings or other  means with which to make his repayments 
if he wasnt earning. This policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if he was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness or if he was to lose his job so I think  it could have given him 
the reassurance  that his monthly payments would be protected  if anything was to go wrong.  
And from what Barclays have told me, it appears  Mr D did make a successful claim on the 
policy.
Mr D has said that his parents would  have helped him to make his payments if he wasnt 
working. Whilst I appreciate that his parents would have wanted  to help, support from others 
cant be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change meaning  they are unable to 
provide such financial  assistance. So this doesnt alter my decision.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
stopped him taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
Ref: DRN08971252But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what he has said becoming  self-
employed at some point  after the sale and that he believes this means he couldnt  have 
claimed on the cover. But this complaint is considering Mr Ds circumstances at the time of 
the sale and I havent seen anything  which suggests  that he had plans to become self-
employed at that time and had advised  Barclays of this. And if Mr Ds circumstances did 
change at some point after the sale, it was for him to check  if the cover would still be suitable 
for his needs. So this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0897125