K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Evergreen  Finance  London Limited (trading as Moneyboat)  lent to him 
in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2020.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Mr M has said that he agrees 
with my provisional decision.  Moneyboat  hasnt  provided us with anything  further.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
So Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about all the loans he was given by Moneyboat. 
Moneyboat needs  to pay him some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Moneyboat should  have agreed  to give Mr M any of the loans. So for each of the 
loans Moneyboat should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loans 1 to 4.
The number of loans  taken from loan 5 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  5 and 6 should be removed  from Mr Ms 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest.  Moneyboat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Evergreen Finance  London  
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Ref: DRN07886722Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07886723EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that Evergreen Finance London  Limited  (trading as Moneyboat) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M was given six loans by Moneyboat between May 2016 and August 2018. Each of the loans was 
repayable in monthly  instalments  the first loan was repayable over four months,  with the remaining 
loans being repayable over six months. All of Mr Ms loans have been fully repaid and a summary of 
his borrowing from Moneyboat is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 18/05/2016 29/07/2016 £     300
2 05/08/2016 31/01/2017 £     500
3 07/02/2017 31/07/2017 £     650
4 01/08/2017 09/01/2018 £     400
5 15/01/2018 29/06/2018 £     750
6 10/08/2018 25/10/2018 £  1,000
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  the lender had been 
wrong to give the first three loans to Mr M. But he didnt think the remaining loans should  have been 
agreed. So he asked  Moneyboat to pay Mr M some compensation.
Moneyboat didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr M could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN07886724the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish whether  
Mr M could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Moneyboat did some checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income, and his 
normal expenditure before agreeing each loan. And it checked his credit file too. Moneyboat says that 
it used the results of those  credit checks to increase the amount of expenditure Mr M had declared in 
relation to his other  credit  accounts.
Here I would generally consider the checks  that Moneyboat did before agreeing  the first four loans to 
be proportionate. But simply performing checks isnt enough   a lender also needs to react  
appropriately to the information those checks show. Moneyboat has said that it is unreasonable to 
expect an underwriter to consider the line by line information returned by a credit check. But 
I disagree  an automated system, which is what Moneyboat says it used in the early  stages of a 
lending relationship, is a highly effective method of assessing the information shown by a credit  
check, provided that the lender makes  the decision  to do so.
The credit  check results  that Moneyboat received before agreeing the first loan showed the lender 
that Mr M had underestimated  the amount he was spending each month on credit repayments. 
Moneyboat increased  his expenditure by just over £200  as a result. But more importantly those 
checks showed that Mr M was already  borrowing  from at least five other short term lenders at the time 
he asked for the loan.  I think that should have been a clear indication to Moneyboat that Mr M was 
facing serious  problems  managing his money. And, as a result, I dont think  Moneyboat could 
reasonably conclude that Mr M would be able to repay any additional lending  in a sustainable 
manner.
Moneyboat did further credit checks before the other loans that Mr M took. Those checks continued to 
show the pressures  his finances were under and that he was failing  to manage his money  in a 
sustainable fashion. He continued to borrow  heavily  and in increasing amounts from a range of other 
short term lenders, mirroring  his borrowing  pattern from Moneyboat. So I dont think any of the loans  
should have been given to Mr M.
Looking at the overall pattern  of Moneyboats  lending  history with Mr M I think that by loan 5 the 
lender should also reasonably have seen,  from that history alone, that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Moneyboat should have  realised that it shouldnt provide 
further loans for that reason too.
Ref: DRN07886725I say this because:
By the time Mr M asked for loan 5 hed been  borrowing from Moneyboat with very little break 
for almost  20 months and he wasnt making any inroads  to the amount he owed  the lender.  
His fifth loan was by far the largest  loan hed taken to date. So Mr M had paid a considerable 
amount of interest to Moneyboat to effectively service a debt over an extended period.
The final loan that was given to Mr M was much larger  again. It should have been clear to 
Moneyboat that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
I think  that Mr M lost out when Moneyboat gave him loans  5 and 6 because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ms ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
So Im intending to uphold  Mr Ms complaint about all the loans he was given by Moneyboat. 
Moneyboat needs to pay him some compensation.
Ref: DRN0788672