K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Santander UK Plc (trading  as Abbey National)  mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr B applied for a mortgage with Abbey National in 2001 and he was sold a PPI policy 
around the same time.
Mr B says he was told hed have a better  chance  of getting the mortgage if PPI was included 
in the package. He says the cost and benefits  of the policy  werent highlighted and Abbey 
didnt carry out a financial plan to ensure either that the PPI met his needs  or that he could 
afford the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Bs complaint didnt uphold  it. Mr B disagrees  and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Abbey needed  to make it clear to Mr B he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement  to 
it. Ive seen a copy  of Mr Bs mortgage  application.  This has a section with yes and no 
options for PPI. Theres nothing on the application to suggest PPI is part of the mortgage  
package or that taking  it would increase a customers chances of getting a mortgage.
In Mr Bs case, neither the yes  or no options  for PPI have been ticked. But I think its likely 
that, at some  point  after he completed  the application, Mr B decided to buy the cover and 
thats why it was added to his account. Although its possible he was persuaded to do this 
because Abbey said it would increase his chances  of getting a mortgage, with only Mr Bs 
testimony to rely on, I dont have enough  to think this would be a fair and reasonable 
conclusion to reach.
Abbey says it recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it needed to make sure it was right for him 
in his circumstances. I dont know what steps  Abbey took to do this. But, from the policy  
terms I think are likely to have applied in Mr Bs case, and from what he says about his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. I say this because:
It seems  Mr B was eligible for the cover. And I dont  think he was affected by any of 
the things the policy  wouldnt have covered  like known  health  problems  or unusual 
employment terms. So there was nothing to stop him claiming  the full policy benefit if 
hed needed  to. I understand Mr B has had some  recent health problems  but these 
happened a long time after Abbey sold him the PPI (and, indeed, after the cover had 
ended), so they arent relevant here.
I think the PPI offered  Mr B potentially useful protection.  He says he wouldnt  have 
got any pay from his employer if he was off work because of sickness  or injury. And 
Ref: DRN01287142he says he didnt have  any savings or other insurance policies he could fall back  on if 
things got difficult.  The PPI wouldve paid a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months for 
each successful accident, sickness or unemployment  claim Mr B made. Given  that a 
mortgage is a significant and long-term  financial commitment and that your home is 
at risk if you fall behind with your mortgage  repayments, I think  the PPI couldve 
given Mr B important peace of mind.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr B couldnt afford the cover  or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for him.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Abbey also had to give Mr B enough clear 
information about the PPI for him to be able to make an informed decision about whether he 
wanted to go ahead  with it. I dont know what steps  Abbey took to do this  and it may be it 
didnt make some things as clear  to Mr B as it shouldve. But, as Ive said, I think Mr B 
probably agreed to the cover, knowing he had a choice about it, and it was right for him. So I 
think clearer information, if it had been  needed, would only have confirmed  this to him and 
wouldnt have changed his decision to go ahead with it. I dont think Mr B has lost out 
because of anything  Abbey may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0128714