K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 6 March 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this PPI policy had not been mis-sold.  I said Id consider anything  else anyone  wanted to 
send me  so long as I received it by 20 March 2019. But neither side sent anything new 
for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party added anything more following my provisional decision. So having  
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same 
reasons  that I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04301862COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs P bought the policy in 2002, at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps credit agreement had a section for PPI. There was a place she could  sign if she wanted 
cover, or which could be left blank if she didnt  want it. It reiterated that she should only sign there if 
she wanted  the policy. Mrs P signed  for PPI, separately from signing  the agreement  as a whole. So 
I think  that Mrs P wouldve  been aware she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it  even  if, understandably, she no longer remembers buying  it after so long.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. They  did 
have to give Mrs P enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information Mrs P was given about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here,  Mrs P 
chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. She was self-employed, so 
she wouldnt  have got any sick pay or redundancy pay from her job. And she didnt have any savings 
or other  cover in case she was off sick or out of work, so the policy couldve been useful for Mrs P in 
case something went wrong.
Mrs P did have a pre-existing  medical condition which wouldnt have been covered. FICL  questioned 
how that might have  affected her, and we asked her representative  for more  information about this. 
But the only effect  theyve  told us about is that she had to take medication. They havent indicated in 
any way that it affected Mrs Ps day-to-day life or ability to work, or that it ever caused her to take time 
off. And when Mrs P first complained, she said she didnt consider herself  to have any health 
problems at the time of the sale. So it doesnt look like she considered the condition  to be likely to 
cause her to claim. And she could  still have claimed on the policy  for any unrelated health issues. 
Further, Mrs P was self-employed, but it shouldnt  have been  any harder for her to claim  because of 
that. So it doesnt look like she was significantly  affected  by the policys exclusions,  and I still think it 
couldve been  useful  for her in her circumstances.
And so overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely  to have put Mrs P off taking out 
the cover.
Ref: DRN04301863my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Please could  Mrs P and FICL send me any more  information  or comments to look at by 20 March  
2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0430186