K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that he wasnt  allowed  to board  a flight that he paid for using credit provided 
by Lloyds Bank PLC. He wants Lloyds Bank to provide  a refund and compensation under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr R used his Lloyds  Bank credit card to book a number of flights  in October 2018 through a 
travel agent  (that Ill call B). He wasnt allowed to board one of the flights  - an onward  
connection after he landed  overseas - which led to delay and additional costs. Initially, Mr R 
was told by the airline that the connecting flight had been overbooked. The airline later said 
the problem was the timing of Mr Rs flight from the UK. Not long after that, the airline  told Mr 
R that he wasnt allowed  to board  due to an error by an agent. Mr R thinks this wouldnt have 
happened if B had provided proper service. Hes out of pocket and he thinks  Lloyds Bank  
should provide  a refund as it is equally liable with B under section 75 of the CCA. 
Lloyds Bank  says B booked the flights requested and paid the relevant service provider so it 
fulfilled the terms  of the contract. The service Mr R paid for using his credit  card was 
supplied and Lloyds  Bank is not responsible  for any failures on the part of the airline.   
Mr R says he didnt receive a contract from B. He relied on Bs expertise in booking travel 
and raised concerns about the timing before he travelled - because  he had to transfer  via a 
large airport terminal - but B said hed have enough  time. Mr R thinks B should have realised 
the transfer would take too long and hed miss the connection. He wants  Lloyds Bank  to 
provide a refund, reimburse consequential  losses and pay compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Our investigator doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Hes satisfied the 
service Mr R paid B for - booking flights - was provided. He doesnt think  Lloyds  Bank can be 
held responsible for any shortcomings in the service provided by the airline. Hes not 
persuaded that Lloyds Bank  did anything  wrong and didnt think it should  have to do 
anything further.  
Mr R disagreed. He says, under the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) code of 
conduct, B should  have 
sold him suitable flights;
provided upfront  information about the short transfer window before he agreed  to this 
particular flight; and 
provided a copy of the airlines terms and conditions.
Mr R relied on Bs specialist knowledge and expertise when he asked it to make  the booking  
and feels it was wrong of B book flights with such a short transfer window. He thinks the 
service he paid was not provided and Lloyds Bank should be held equally responsible. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  on 25 October 2019.  Ive set out a summary  of 
my provisional findings below, in italics. I said:-   
Ref: DRN03894122Mr R brings this complaint  against Lloyds Bank under section 75 of the CCA which provides 
protection to customers who use certain types of credit to buy goods  or services. Under 
section 75 a consumer  like Mr R has an equal  right to claim against  the lender or the 
provider of goods or services if theres been a misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
I make  my decision  based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances  taking  relevant  law into account, amongst other things. So, Ive considered  
section 75 when Ive looked at whether Lloyds Bank has taken appropriate steps in response 
to Mr Rs complaint. For section 75 to apply  a debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship 
must exist between the relevant parties.  This means  the credit provided  by Lloyds Bank 
must have  been  used  to finance an agreement between Mr R and the party thats let him 
down. 
As far as I can see Mr R is unhappy because he was unable  to board a connecting  flight  
abroad and he thinks  the responsibility for this lies with two parties  - B and the airline.
I am satisfied that B booked flights for Mr R and took payment for that via his Lloyds Bank 
credit card. This payment  was then passed  on to the relevant airline via a third party. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that there  is an associated relationship  between the airline  itself 
and B (as defined  under the relevant legislation). 
This means  the sort of d-c-s relationship  required by section 75 is not in place between Mr 
R, Lloyds Bank and the airline. And, whilst  I appreciate  this probably seems like something  
of a technical point to Mr R, I cant fairly say that Lloyds  Bank  should  take responsibility  for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the airline, in this situation.  I am satisfied 
however that there seems  to be a d-c-s relationship in place between Mr R, Lloyds Bank and 
B. So, I have considered  whether theres been a breach of contract and/or misrepresentation 
by B. If I understand Mr R correctly he says B hasnt fulfilled its obligations as:-  
he relied on Bs specialist knowledge,  experience and expertise in arranging travel 
and B had an obligation to book a suitable flight (amongst  other  things) under the 
ABTA code;
B failed  to provide the service he paid for because  the time between Mr R touching 
down overseas and transferring to another terminal for his next flight  was too short to 
allow him to make  the connection;
information about the likely transfer time was available on the relevant airports 
website so B should reasonably have  been  aware of it and advised  Mr R 
appropriately so he could book a different flight or take steps to avoid the problem; 
Mr R raised  the timing issue after the flights were booked, when he found out about 
the airports policy, and B wrongly  reassured him there shouldnt be a problem.  
I havent seen  a copy of Bs terms and conditions but Im satisfied that B agreed to book 
travel for Mr R and it was obliged to provide  this service with reasonable skill and care under 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA). Mr R says B didnt do that - it booked flights  that were  
unsuitable for needs that he made B aware of.  
For me to uphold this complaint, Id have  to be satisfied first of all that Mr R had actually 
missed the connecting  flight  because of the short transfer time. From the evidence I have at 
the moment, I am not persuaded thats the case and Ill explain why.  Ive seen an exchange 
of emails between Mr R and the airline - after he complained about missing the flight. The 
airline told Mr R initially  that the connecting  flight was overbooked. Shortly after, it said this 
was wrong and Mr Rs name  had been  removed from the connecting flight  list by the airport 
itself due to the short  transfer  window. The airline then sent a further email (dated 16 
Ref: DRN03894123November 2018) where it said Mr R had not been  allowed to board the connecting flight 
because of an error on the part of one of its agents. The airline  offered to pay Mr R 
compensation - as it was required to, under regulations that apply in the county he flew to.  
In light of this, I think its more likely than not Mr R missed his connecting  flight due to a 
mistake made by an airline  agent - not the timing of his outbound flight from the UK. I cant 
reasonably hold Lloyds Bank responsible for that - as its a failing on the part of the airline. 
Even if I were to accept  that the timing of the outbound flight  played a part in what  
happened, I am not persuaded this means  theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by B either. I say this because Ive seen an exchange of correspondence  
between Mr R and B shortly after he booked the flights. In an email  dated 6 September  2018 
Mr R said he wanted to double-check that the transfer time would work. Mr R 
acknowledges B had already checked  the timing with a third party  agent and been told that 
Mr R should have enough time.  Im satisfied that the timing issue  was raised between Mr R 
and B before the flights  were  booked.  It looks as if Mr R knew  about  the short turnaround 
time and B checked with a third party to ensure this should be ok. I think  Mr R must have 
been satisfied  by the response he got at that stage  - as he went ahead with the booking.
I accept Mr R remained worried about  the timing of his flights. In the email of 6 September,  
he goes on to say that he wanted to explore his options further if it might be impossible to 
make the connecting  flight. It looks as if B checked the transfer  arrangements  again - and 
additional measures  were put in place to try and reduce the risk of any delay.  Im satisfied 
that B also looked  into the possibility of booking an earlier flight  out at this stage - so Mr R 
would have more  time to make his connection - and told Mr R this would cost more. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that that B gave Mr R incorrect information. And I think  it was up 
to Mr R to decide if he wanted  to pay more  for an earlier flight  - and be certain  that he would  
have enough time to make his connection  - or accept  the later flight and the risk associated 
with a shorter transfer window. 
I invited both parties to consider my provisional view and let me have  any further evidence or 
comments by the 8 November 2019. Mr Rs initial response suggested  he would like a little 
more time to obtain additional evidence and I agreed to extend the time for responses. The 
additional time I allowed has now passed.  
Lloyds Bank  accepted my provisional  findings  without further comment. Mr R does  not agree 
and provided detailed submissions setting out why. He told us that he wrote to the airline 
again after I issued  my provisional decision. He asked it to confirm that he was removed 
from the connecting flight due to the short transfer  window. He says he told the airline  that 
he would  consider its original response  was accurate unless it came back to say otherwise.  
Mr R has heard nothing  since and considers this supports his view that the airport took his 
name off the flight because the transfer window wasnt  long enough.  Mr R also feels that I 
failed to take some key evidence into account when I made  my provisional  findings. He says 
(in summary) 
the airlines initial response is more significant than its later reference to an agent 
error and the words agent error refer to B, not airline staff;  
he relied on B to provide a service that met his needs - not sell something  thats  
against official guidelines and give false assurances after he paid leaving the risk that 
hed miss the connecting flight; 
Ref: DRN03894124B didn't follow the relevant code of practice  and sold him a transfer  so difficult  that 
the airline itself removed  Mr R from his connecting flight;  
the airline confirmed  that in its initial response which says our records  indicate that 
due to your connecting time for customs,  [the] airport  cancelled your original flight 
and moved you to the later flight.  The flight was not oversold  or overbooked. I'm 
sorry for any misinformation that was provided and any confusion  that this caused;
B was negligent as the transfer window was against the rules/guidelines  of the 
relevant authority - the relevant airports website  says there  are nine steps in a 
transfer and the fourth step alone takes two hours;
he accepts there  are many factors  that impact how long a traveller may take to 
complete the transfer process  but this takes two hours on average and the airports 
website refers to a 3 hour transfer window;
this explains why the airline  would  take him off the flight and sell the seat as he didnt 
have long enough to make the connection;
the assurances B provided when he queried the timing were of little value as the 
flight was non-refundable;  and 
this booking was wrong from the outset and the short turnaround  time is the sole 
reason he was denied boarding. 
Mr R says the delay  he experienced caused  him to miss the most  important part of a course 
he attended and he incurred additional  costs of about £210  for phone calls and taxis.  He 
thinks Lloyds should be held responsible under  section 75 and feels  hes being blamed 
instead, which is unfair.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the parties disagree about what  
happened, I have made  my findings on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what  I 
think is most likely  based on the evidence I have  seen  and the wider  circumstances.  
I can see that Mr R has very strong  feelings about  what happened here. I think  thats 
understandable given  the very stressful situation  he found himself  in. And I want to assure  
Mr R that I have thought  carefully about everything that he has said and sent to us. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr R but I am afraid this hasnt changed my mind.  I remain  of the 
view that there are not enough fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons Ive set out. 
I accept the airline  gave  Mr R more  than one explanation about why he was unable to board  
his connecting  flight. But I find the last reason it provided is most  likely to be the correct  one - 
given the airline  had time to investigate  more thoroughly by that point. And I am not 
persuaded it would be reasonable to ignore  this on the basis  that Mr R wrote  to the airline  in 
the terms he did recently and received no reply. 
I have re-considered the exchange of correspondence between Mr R and the airline. I 
remain of the view that the agent  referred to in that correspondence was an agent of the 
airline not B. 
I also remain satisfied that the timing  of the flights was discussed when Mr R first 
approached B about booking, for the reasons Ive given already. And, taking all of the 
Ref: DRN03894125evidence into account, I am not persuaded that B acted without reasonable skill and care 
and/or in breach of contract  or made any misrepresentations. 
I realise this decision  will probably come as a disappointment to Mr R but I cant reasonably  
require Lloyds Bank to provide a refund or do anything further in this situation. Mr R is not 
obliged to accept  my decision, in which case it remains  open to him to pursue this matter  by 
any other means should he wish to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0389412