K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that an engineer damaged her car when fitting  a black  box for her 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  motor insurance policy.
background
Admiral said the engineer  was required to identify any pre-existing issues with the car before 
installing the black box. Here there was an issue with the offside  drivers  window being loose 
and not functioning as it should. The engineer advised Miss Hs mother, who was overseeing 
the installation  on her behalf,  that there was a problem and she said she knew of it 
previously. The engineer  says he used a piece of cardboard in an attempt to stop the 
window from dropping. The installation was completed.  But as the engineer hadnt made 
Miss Hs mother  aware of what she was signing and in the interests of bringing the complaint 
to a close it had arranged a £90 gesture of goodwill  payment  to cover the cost of fixing  the 
window. 
Miss H says this isnt enough  as the engineer damaged the window runners too. And its 
estimated it will cost £287 to repair.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld as Admirals  approach  to Miss Hs 
complaint is fair. Whilst understanding her frustration that the window broke during the 
installation it appears  the fault with it was pre-existing. Its unfortunate that during the checks  
the engineer carried  out on the car that the fault worsened but he cannot conclude the 
engineer was solely responsible for this. Admiral cant  be held responsible for the window 
fault. But the service  couldve  been  better  regarding Miss Hs mother signing for the work 
done on the car. Even so he will not be asking  Admiral  to do anything  more than its already 
done. Its goodwill  payment of £90 is a fair resolution  of the complaint.
Miss H doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary she says when 
the engineer arrived  she had a secure  car with the drivers window in full working condition.  
But afterwards the window was broken and the car was insecure. Her mother  has a picture 
showing it was open and undamaged during  the work. Her mother  was coerced into signing 
a document on an iPad to say the window was in that condition  previously. The engineer 
didnt do any pre-checks.  Shes proof the window was working when the engineer  arrived 
and he must  have finished  the work and pulled it off its runners.  He must have carried out 
the pre-checks  after he finished the job.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
The versions of events presented by both parties are very different. 
Admiral says the engineer identified the window fault in his pre-checks. And the fact it was 
pre-existing was confirmed by Miss Hs mother who was supervising the job on her behalf.
Ref: DRN03223242Miss H says there  were  likely no pre-checks carried out before the work was done  and it was 
the engineer who damaged her car. But she wasnt present when the work was done and so 
her views are based on what she thinks mightve happened. Miss H also relies on a photo 
taken by her mother which she says shows the window open and she says this proves the 
window was working properly and must have then been damaged by the engineer.  But Im 
afraid I cant agree with her. 
The photograph captures a single  moment  in time.  It doesnt  show  what happened 
throughout the appointment,  evidence whether or not there was a pre-existing fault with the 
window or prove the engineer damaged  her car. It also doesnt prove her statement that the 
car was secure and the window in full working  condition before the appointment. And this 
statement is also contradicted by what her mother apparently  told the engineer  about  there  
being a pre-existing  fault with the window. The photo also doesnt show  all the relevant  
areas of the car window mechanism in any detail or at all. 
Admiral has accepted the service when Miss Hs mother was asked to sign a document on 
an iPad couldve been better.
Taking everything into account  , although  I sympathise with the situation Miss H has found 
herself in and recognise her strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  think shes shown on 
balance that the window  fault was caused by the engineer. And I dont  think  I can therefore  
fairly or reasonably require Admiral  to do or pay anything more  towards  the window repair. 
Overall, I agree  with the adjudicator that Admirals  goodwill payment of £90 is a fair and 
reasonable resolution of this complaint. And I dont see any compelling reason to change  the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0322324