K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the increases in premiums  on his home insurance with AXA Insurance
UK Plc (AXA) between 2008 and 2011.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  a copy  of which attached  and forms part of 
this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think Mr Ts 
complaint should  be upheld.  
In summary,  I thought  it was likely AXA had treated Mr T fairly in relation to the premium  it 
offered him for his home insurance.  I was satisfied it was likely  the increases in the premium  
between 2008  and 2011 were because of risk related reasons and the premium had been 
calculated correctly. And although  Mr T had a claim that was ongoing for a long time, I 
wasnt persuaded there was enough  to say this prevented him from getting an alternative 
policy with a different  insurer. 
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline Id set. Mr T did respond to 
say he didnt agree with what Id said. In summary, he said:
-There was only one claim  made in 2006  but AXA treated these as two claims.
-Renewal was refused by AXA in 2007 because of the outstanding claim, not because 
of the lodger as I said in my provisional  decision.
-The claims and loss of no claims discount dont explain the increase in premiums. He 
wants me to request  information from AXA to show how the premium have been  
calculated based on the risk of insuring his property.
-Being  treated fairly  isnt just about  being  compared to other customers, its also about 
general market and commercial behaviour. His case is unique.
-His difficulties in getting alternative insurance cover were  solely  down to AXA not 
repairing the house. He was told there was no way another insurer could assess the 
risk on his house as it wasnt in a stable situation.
-He was able,  in 2011, to obtain much  cheaper  quotes than AXA.  This suggests  he 
was being treated  very differently to other customers.
-Because he wasnt able to get alternative  cover between 2007  and 2011, AXA was in 
a monopolistic position and loaded  the premiums from 2008  by exorbitant  amounts.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the further points 
made by Mr T to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I can understand why Mr T wants AXA to justify the premiums it charged him between 2008 
and 2011. He wants to show the increases in premiums werent related to risk and that AXA 
was treating him unfairly.  But were  talking about  complicated actuarial calculations that were 
done a very long time ago, for a policy that hasnt been in place since  2011.
I explained in my provisional decision  that AXA cant provide a breakdown  to show exactly  
why the premium changed the way it did between 2008 and 2011.  So I dont think  theres  
any benefit in asking for this information again. It isnt surprising or unusual that AXA isnt 
Ref: DRN03440622able to give us this  as Ive said, it was a long time ago and I wouldnt expect this type of 
information to be kept indefinitely. 
I appreciate this will feel unsatisfactory  to Mr T but I have to make  a decision using the 
evidence that is available. I needed  to decide what,  on the balance of probabilities,  is most  
likely to have happened.
In this case, theres no dispute there were claims made on the policy  (whether paid or not) 
and these will have affected  the premium  both to reduce  any no claims discount  and add 
extra loading to the premiums. These, together with the increase in sum assured, go some 
way to explaining why the premiums increased. While Mr T might dispute how the claims 
have been recorded and the impact they would have had on the premium, I am satisfied  that 
its more likely than not, the primary reasons for the increases in the premium were  because 
of AXAs  view of the risk of insuring  his property.
I agree  with Mr T that when Im deciding  if AXA treated  him fairly, it isnt just about  
comparing him with other customers. Ive looked  at whether there were legitimate reasons 
for the premium increasing  and I think  there  were. I also dont have anything to suggest  
AXA was increasing  the premium  just because it knew Mr T couldnt get cover elsewhere.  As 
I explained in my provisional decision,  as far as AXA was concerned, his claims from 2006  
were closed in 2008. So it wouldnt have any reason to think  Mr T might  have  difficulty 
getting cover  elsewhere.
Mr T points  to the fact he was able to get a much cheaper quote in 2011 for an alternative 
policy to show AXA wasnt treating him fairly   he says this suggests he was treated very 
differently to other  customers. But there are several reasons why the new policy  Mr T got 
would have been cheaper.
Insurers use different pricing and risk models over time, so a policy taken out some time ago 
wont be priced the same way as a different product taken out many years later. Also new 
policies are usually  heavily discounted and the insurer recoups that discount over the 
subsequent years. So the price Mr T was able to get for a new policy in 2011 cant be 
directly compared with the price of a policy he took out in 2006 that hed had for a number of 
years. 
Overall, I dont  have enough to conclude AXA treated Mr T unfairly  in relation to the premium 
it charged him between  2008 and 2011.
Ive reconsidered  what Mr Ts said about not being able to get an alternative  policy  because  
AXA hadnt  completed the repairs on his house.  He says neither he nor his broker  were able 
to arrange alternative  cover because of the additional damage  to the house that was 
occurring daily.
Mr T says AXA refused renewal in 2007 because of the ongoing claim. And I accept this 
might be what  he was told by his broker at the time.  But AXAs  records  of what  happened in 
2007, say the renewal  was declined because Mr T had a lodger that hadnt been disclosed.  
It looks like this decision was changed because of the outstanding claim, rather  than being  
made because of it. 
Its possible Mr T did try to get an alternative  policy in 2007 and 2008 and wasnt  able to. But 
hes still not provided anything to support what he says about this being  solely  due to the 
ongoing claim. From what hes said, it doesnt  seem like he tried again until 2011. He says I 
Ref: DRN03440623still felt I couldnt  go to the market to seek alternative  cover.  Once again I would have had to 
tick certain boxes for a new insurer and give full disclosure of the facts. There  is also a box 
about have you ever been refused  insurance  and I did not want  to have  to answer yes to that 
question beyond the timeframe of previous  claims.
So Im still unable to say its more likely than not that any delays AXA might  have caused in 
resolving Mr Ts claims prevented him from getting  cheaper cover elsewhere sooner.
Mr T has asked where the compensation is for the delays on AXAs  part in resolving the 
claims. But a complaint  about these delays  and the outstanding work on Mr Ts property has 
been dealt with as a separate  complaint.  I have  only considered this in relation to Mr Ts 
complaint that he wasnt able to get an alternative  policy because  of the delays. And as Ive 
explained, Im not upholding  this complaint so I wont be awarding any compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
Mr T is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home insurance  with AXA Insurance
UK Plc (AXA)  between  2008 and 2011.
background
Mr T took out his home  insurance policy with AXA in 2006 for a cost of £632.47. The
premium increased  and in 2008 was £709.71. In 2009 it increased to £1,022.69 and in 2010
increased again to £1,205.99. The policy lapsed from renewal in 2011.
Mr T feels that he was charged  excessive  and unreasonable premiums between 2008  and
Ref: DRN034406242011. He also says in 2011 he was able to get cover with a different insurer for substantially
less (approximately £200 - £300).
Mr T made  a claim in June  2006 for storm damage to a chimney. There  were  also further
claims in July 2006 for water damage to internal decoration and a leak from the bathroom.
The storm  damage claim was closed by AXA in September  2008 (and then reopened on 22
August 2011) and the escape of water claim  closed  later in 2008.
Mr T is unhappy he had to keep his insurance with AXA while his claims were ongoing as he
says no other insurer would take him on. He says he overpaid  approximately £1,200 in
premiums.
Mr T is also unhappy  more generally with how AXA handled an ongoing  buildings insurance
claim, but this has been looked at as a separate complaint by our service.
AXA says the premiums were applied correctly based on their assessment of the risk
involved at the time, as well as any general  premium increases.
Our adjudicator thought the premiums had been priced  fairly and didnt think Mr T had lost
out. Mr T disagreed. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been a large volume of correspondence sent to us by both Mr T and AXA, and
while I wont comment on every point made, I want to assure  both parties  that Ive thought
carefully about all the evidence and testimony submitted.
I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should have cost. I would  be, in
effect determining or telling  a business how it should operate  and thats  not my role. But I
can look at whether AXA has treated Mr T fairly throughout the period he held his insurance
policy. If I find that AXA hasnt  treated  Mr T fairly,  I will look to see what  compensation  would
be fair. Based on what  Ive seen I think AXA has treated  Mr T fairly. Ill explain why.
In this case, there seem  to be several risk related reasons why the cost of Mr Ts insurance
changed over the time he had it with AXA.  Not only had he made the claims Ive referred to
above, there  were  two other claims  for theft (in 2007) and subsidence (in 2008).  This would
have meant  he lost his no claims  discount,  and AXA would also have taken this and his
previous claims  into account when assessing how much  to charge Mr T for his insurance.
AXA has shown the terms of the policy should have changed  at renewal in 2008 and the
premium should have  been  affected by the escape of water and storm claims. But because
of a system issue, this didnt happen. The changes to the terms and premiums were
implemented at renewal  in 2009 instead, which likely explains why the premium increase  at
this time was significant.
I also note the sum insured of the buildings  cover  was amended in December  2007  it was
increased from £181,300 to £230,000.  As the level of cover AXA was providing increased,
the premium would also go up. This goes some way to explaining why the premium at
renewal in 2008 was more  than it had been the previous year.
Given the time thats passed, AXA cant give us a breakdown to show exactly  why the
premium changed the way it did between 2008 and 2011. But based on the information it
has been able to provide,  Im satisfied the increases in premium between 2008 and 2011 are
likely due to risk related  reasons and the premium it offered to Mr T at each renewal was
correct. Ive not seen anything  to show the premium it offered to Mr T was unfair or that he
Ref: DRN03440625was being treated any differently to other customers who were in similar situations.
Mr T has raised concerns about the premium being affected because the claims were
ongoing for a number of years. And hes said AXA could charge what  it wanted for the cover
because it knew he couldnt go elsewhere for insurance  while he still had open claims. But
AXA has shown that the claims made in 2006 were  all closed on its records in 2008.
So, while I appreciate Mr Ts position was that the claims were ongoing,  because his
property still needed  work done, this wasnt AXAs position. This means  the time taken to
resolve the claims is unlikely to have affected  the premium. AXA is also unlikely to have
been taking advantage of Mr T not being able to get alternative  cover, because as far as it
was concerned, this wouldnt  have  been  an issue.
Mr T says he was prevented  from exercising  his rights to change insurer  because  of the
ongoing claims. And the delays in resolving  the claims  were due to AXAs contractors doing such a 
poor job. He says that when he declared  the ongoing claims, other insurers wouldnt
offer him any cover.
Its clear that while AXA might have closed the claims  on its records,  they were still ongoing
for Mr T. He was still in contact with the loss adjuster and work was still being carried out on
his property.  So if he was asked  whether  he had any ongoing claims when getting quotes or
applying for alternative  cover, hes likely to have said he did. It also seems that AXA has now
accepted that Mr Ts claims  werent  handled as well as they should  have been. Based  on
this, its likely they were  ongoing for longer  than they should  have been.
But what is less clear is whether the ongoing  claim was the only reason  Mr T couldnt  get
an alternative policy.
Mr T has pointed to the fact that AXA initially didnt offer him cover at renewal in 2007 as
evidence that even it didnt  want to insure his property due to an ongoing claim. But AXAs
notes from the time show the reason it didnt  offer him cover  wasnt anything  to do with the
ongoing claim, but because it had found  out Mr T had a lodger.  Although it did agree to offer
Mr T cover in the end.
While Mr T has said hes tried to get alternative cover since 2007 and it was the ongoing
claim that prevented  him from doing so, hes not provided any evidence to support this. In
my experience, an ongoing  claim doesnt automatically  mean  no other insurer  would be
prepared to offer cover. I dont doubt Mr T might have had trouble  getting  alternative cover,
but other things could  have contributed to this. For example, the number of claims hed
made in the previous years or the fact he had a lodger.
Mr T was apparently able to get a policy from a different insurer in 2011, when he still
appears to have been  having work done on his property and be in contact with the loss
adjuster. So presumably he once again disclosed the ongoing claim  at this point and was
able to get an alternative  policy.  This could  suggest it wasnt  just the ongoing claim that was
stopping Mr T getting a policy from a different insurer.
Without any evidence to support what Mr T has said, Im unable to say its more  likely  than
not that any delays AXA might have caused in resolving Mr Ts claims, prevented  him being
able to get cheaper cover  elsewhere.
Ref: DRN0344062