K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains about the incorrect valuations  she received from Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  (Legal  and General) for her pension plans. She wants to know 
why  at one point in 2016  Legal and General valued her plans at over £70,000 whereas 
now the value  is less than £50,000. The only explanation shes  been given is that Legal and 
General incorrectly applied some charges to the plan from inception.  
She says that now two of her plans have  no value. She wants  an explanation for what  has 
happened and to be compensated for any losses that have occurred as a result  of any errors 
that Legal and General may have made. 
background
Ms W took out a personal pension with Legal  and General in December 1989.The  pension  
was split into five cluster policies to facilitate phased retirement  dates and to allow Ms W to 
contract out of SERPS. Investment was across a number  of funds but mainly the with-profits  
fund. 
In 2016 Ms W was in discussion with her adviser  about her retirement options. She says she 
was provided with significantly different valuations of her pensions   ranging from £55,000 
on one occasion,  and around £70,000  on another. So her adviser queried the valuations with 
Legal and General. 
In December 2016 Ms W was advised  that Legal  and General  had made an error with its 
monthly charge  on one of her plans and had corrected the charge going  forward.  But 
Ms Ws adviser  said the figures continued to vary and wanted  an explanation of what had 
happened and why the valuations were so different.  
As no reasonable explanation was received  Ms W complained to Legal and General in 
September 2017  as she was unsure of the total value of her pension. She also wanted  to 
know why she had been provided with incorrect information. Legal and General upheld  
Ms Ws complaint. It explained  that the incorrect valuations had previously  been  given to 
Ms W due to corrective work that was being carried out around plan charge reversals.
It said the work had now been completed  and it provided Ms W with what  it said were  the 
correct pension valuations  of around £49,000  in total. In recognition of the poor service  it 
provided Ms W  and her financial  adviser  Legal  and General sent her a cheque for £200. 
But Ms W was still unsure why Legal and General had provided different pension  valuations, 
so she brought  her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld. 
He explained  that, looking at pension  valuations hed seen from 2013 onwards, he was 
satisfied that Ms Ws pensions were valued at around £49,000  as Legal and General had 
confirmed in its final response letter.
 
But he said Legal  and General had provided Ms W with incorrect  pension  valuations on two 
separate occasions and this would have caused her distress and inconvenience in not 
having accurate  information with which to make  decisions about  her retirement. So he felt 
that the £200 Legal and General had paid Ms W was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN09381852Ms W didnt  agree. She questioned  why Legal and General had provided her with a total 
pension valuation of around £70,000  which was wrong by almost £20,000, and why two 
policies had negative  values. The adjudicator  acknowledged that she was provided with 
incorrect information, but didnt believe shed suffered  a financial loss. He also didnt agree 
that the two policies she referred to had negative valuations and sent Ms W those fund 
values to confirm  what the plans were  worth.
But, as no resolution  could be found,  Ms W asked for an ombudsman  to look at the case  so 
its been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find Im in agreement 
with the adjudicators conclusions and for broadly  the same reasons. I know this isnt the 
outcome Ms W would have liked  and I have some sympathy for the position shes in, 
having clearly been  provided with some inaccurate information. So Ill explain my reasoning.
Theres no dispute here that Legal and General did provide Ms W and her adviser with 
incorrect valuations for her pension plans. Legal and General has acknowledged  that and 
paid compensation for its error. So what Im considering here is whether  the level of 
compensation it paid was fair and reasonable and also whether the valuations are now 
correct in so far as its possible  to provide an explanation to Ms W. 
Are the valuations now correct and why were previous values incorrect?
In March 2018 Legal and General  sent Ms Ws adviser values for three of her plans.  It 
explained how the plan values had steadily increased from 2013 to 2018  and confirmed 
were still correcting policies X and Y. To explain,  the system  value  currently  shows  £0.00 
but were now aware a charge cap should  have been applied. 
The total plan values for the previous four years were approximately:
2015-£40,761
2016-£43,442
2017-£48,100
2018-£49,493 
Ive also seen the annual pension statement that Ms W was sent in November 2017 and 
2018 which noted total plan values of £49,320  and £51,108 respectively. So Im satisfied that 
the recent valuations Ms W has been provided  with are correct, based  on that evidence and 
when considered alongside  the previous years valuations.  
I note two plans  werent  included  in those totals  but subsequently they have only been  
shown to be worth around £200,  so they wouldnt have  affected the overall  valuations  by 
very much.  
But, on the other hand, Ive also seen the valuations that were  sent to Ms W in July 2016, as 
a result of her request, which showed  a total of over £76,000. So its clear  these valuations 
were significantly  different to all the other  valuations that have  been  provided for Ms Ws 
pension. It would seem that the problem in July 2016 arose because of three plans that were 
combined in value and were  significantly  higher than the information  Legal and General 
Ref: DRN09381853subsequently provided in March 2018.  Ms Ws adviser has said there  were  other  valuations  
he saw online which were  equally incorrect  and Ive no reason to dispute that.  
So its clear that during  2016 some incorrect information was provided,  some of it quite 
significantly incorrect. Legal and General  was aware that there  was a problem with Ms Ws 
plan values (and a number  of other  customers too) and were trying to resolve it as it 
explained in December 2016.  It noted  that one of Ms Ws policies had incorrect charges 
applied and had to be manually re calculated. It has said that the incorrect  charges didnt 
affect the valuations by that much. But in any case it said it shouldnt have provided  any 
illustrations or valuations around  that time. 
Its unfortunate that the problem Legal  and General had with its systems caused so much 
difference in Ms Ws pension plan valuations. And that it still wasnt  resolved six months after 
she first complained and remained unable to make any decisions  about her retirement. 
Ms Ws adviser  says Legal and General  has never been able to properly explain why the 
valuation of one policy was so different and why the other policies werent  affected  by the 
charges as well. 
I know Ms W thinks there must be a specific reason  for why Legal  and General quoted  such  
an incorrect valuation but I cant safely say its done anything wrong over that matter. What  I 
would expect Legal and General to have done  is to investigate the matter and try to give 
Ms W an answer.  And I think it has  but it cannot  pinpoint the exact reason for the incorrect 
valuation. I appreciate Ms Ws adviser doesnt  accept this explanation is specific  enough, but 
Im satisfied its not possible to be any more  specific,  and Legal and General has confirmed 
there are various reasons   including the overcharging factor  for why the valuation  was 
incorrect around that time. It has said that When corrective work is happening  the values 
will not be accurate.   
Ms Ws adviser  also cant understand why two of the plans had negative values which  he 
didnt think was possible. And I can understand why he thought that based  on some  of the 
evidence he submitted from online valuations. But Im aware that the adjudicator has 
provided Ms W with the current  values  of those plans  which  arent negative, So Im 
satisfied that any errors  that occurred in valuing those plans has also been amended and 
that Ms W now has the correct valuation  for that plan within  the overall  figures that shes 
been provided with.
Level of compensation 
Ive gone on to consider the impact  that these valuation errors had on Ms W and whether 
Legal and Generals payment of compensation was appropriate. I can see how this matter 
has caused disruption to Ms Ws retirement  planning  as she was in discussion with her 
adviser at the time but was unable to make  any firm plans.
This was because they were both unsure of the level of income and tax free cash she might 
be able to receive. Ive taken into account  that at one point this discrepancy was more  than 
£25,000, so I think  that would  have  affected  Ms Ws decision. 
Ive also seen that Legal and General  was still unable  to confirm the value of the two 
outstanding policies in March 2018  some six months  after the complaint was first raised. 
Although the value  of these policies was quite  small when  considering  the overall pension 
value, Ms W and her adviser wouldnt  have  known this, especially as the adviser  noted  
negative values for those two plans. But Legal  and General  did acknowledge it had made  
Ref: DRN09381854errors and offered an explanation for what happened. Its also tried to provide accurate 
figures for the unaffected plans where possible.  
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen I think Legal  and Generals offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think its broadly in line with a figure I 
might have recommended for this level of distress  and inconvenience  had Legal and 
General not already tried to resolve  the matter.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint in so much as I think  the payment  Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  has made  to Ms W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0938185