K822xcomplaint 
Miss N complains about TSB Bank  Plc in relation to issues with a standing order  which 
meant the payments werent credited  to her mortgage account.  Shes unhappy her mortgage  
account went into arrears and about the impact to her credit file based on the information 
thats been recorded. 
background 
Miss Ns complaint relates  to issues shes experienced with the standing  order payments 
made towards her mortgage account,  which  happened over the course of several months. 
For ease of reference, Ive set out a basic timeline  of events in the table below:
Date What happened 
March 2016 A standing  order was set up for £500 to make a payment towards 
Miss Ns TSB mortgage account. 
The £500  was for the monthly mortgage repayment  plus an 
overpayment. 
2 January 2018, 30 
January 2018,  3 April 
2018 and 30 April 2018TSB said standing order payments to Miss Ns mortgage account were  
made  with £500 being credited each time on these dates.  
April 2018 New mortgage sort code and account  details became valid. 
TSB says its customers were contacted to tell them  of the change  of 
account details  earlier in the year.
April 2018 Payments to the original  account details were transferred  to the new 
account until April 2018, when the new account  details became  valid. 
After this, payments  were  returned  to the customers account.
Prior to this, as Miss N had been  making overpayments  to her account, 
her mortgage account was ahead by almost four months repayments. 
April 2018 Miss N started a new job in April 2018,  around the time the original  
standing order payments started  to be returned to her account. 
May 2018, June  2018, 
July 2018 and August 
2018The standing order payments to the original mortgage account details 
were sent and after going into a suspense account  were returned to 
Miss Ns account. No payments were credited to the mortgage account  
during these months. 
August 2018 Miss N says she noticed £500 come into her account. She contacted 
TSB to find out what this was for. Miss N says she was told TSBs 
mortgage sort code  and account details had changed in April 2018. She 
then became aware that every  month  since May 2018 the standing  order 
for £500 sent to her mortgage account  had been  returned to her. 
August 2018 At this point, she was contacted as she was now in arrears on her 
mortgage account. 
August 2018 Miss N says a new standing order was set up for the new account 
details.
25 September 2018 £500 payment  credited to Miss Ns mortgage account. 
October 2018 Miss N says TSB took the payment for both the original  and new 
standing order. So, the payment came  out of her account twice.  
Ref: DRN0607745225 October 2018 - £500 was credited to her mortgage account.
October 2018 One of the standing orders was cancelled by TSB. 
November 2018 No payment was credited to Miss Ns mortgage  account. The payment 
sent was returned.  
30 November 2018 Miss N says during a call with TSB on 30 November 2018,  the advisor 
amended the standing  order  to include the reference.
December 2018 No payment was credited to Miss Ns mortgage  account. The payment 
sent was returned.  
Miss N is unhappy TSB has recorded  missed payments on her credit file for November and 
December 2018.  Miss N has referred to numerous calls with TSB in which  shes stressed it 
was TSB who made changes to the standing  orders and so feels  any loss is the result of the 
bank. 
To resolve  this complaint  Miss N would like TSB to credit her mortgage  account with the four 
months missed payments, which she feels would have been  credited to her mortgage  
account had it not been  for TSBs error with the standing order.  She would also like TSB to 
correct the late payment  information on her credit  file. 
Our investigator didnt  feel TSB had acted fairly  and reasonably  in this particular case. She 
felt TSB should have  cancelled the original  standing order  sooner than it did. While TSB has 
said it would  be for the customer  to cancel any standing  orders, our investigator  felt TSB 
were aware in August 2018 that the original standing  order  wasnt  working  and wasnt  set up 
with the new account details. Because  of this, the standing order payments from August, 
September and October continued to go to the original account details, where it entered a 
suspense account  until it was returned back to Miss N. The investigator felt had the standing  
order been cancelled  in August 2018, then the problem with the September  and October 
payments could have  been prevented. She also felt this would have  meant Miss N wouldnt 
have needed to call TSB in October  2018  to get the payment returned. 
To reflect this, the investigator recommended TSB pay Miss N £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and to reimburse  her the cost of the telephone calls she made on 26, 
28 and 30 October 2018. 
Our investigator also considered the further problems with the standing order payments not 
crediting Miss Ns mortgage account  in November  and December 2018. She explained she 
could see a TSB advisor in a call on 30 November had changed the standing order to 
include the reference. So, she felt the returned  payment in December 2018 was an error on 
TSBs part. Because of this, she recommended TSB pay Miss N a further £50 compensation 
and amend her credit  file, so the late payment marker wasnt recorded  for December 2018. 
She also recommended TSB refund Miss N the call charges for the call she made in 
January 2019  as it was in relation to this. 
Our investigator explained shed seen no information to show  TSB amended  the standing  
order before  this time, and so while she couldnt  say for sure what  had happened, she didnt 
feel she could hold TSB responsible for the November payment not going  through.    
TSB responded and accepted the recommendations made by our investigator. Miss N 
replied to say she strongly disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans  review.  In brief Miss N 
said:
Ref: DRN06077453TSB should have  contacted her as soon as the first standing  order  payment was 
returned and not just when her mortgage account went into arrears. In support of 
this Miss Ns given us a letter she received from TSB in relation to a returned  
standing order for a much lower  amount.  
She reiterates the standing orders  were amended by TSB and so feels the ongoing 
issues are errors  on TSBs part and that it should credit her mortgage account with 
the payments  that should have  gone to her mortgage account for the missed 
months. 
Shes also unhappy with the amount and length  of calls she had to make to TSB and 
the distress this has caused her.  
I think its important to note that Miss N has also made comments  in relation to issues  with 
TSBs online system and her not having  online access to her accounts. While I appreciate 
Miss N feels that had there not been  such IT issues she would have been in a better  position  
to keep track  of her accounts,  I have  not specifically commented on this part of Miss Ns 
complaint. This is because I can see this part has been considered under a different  
complaint at our service.
When this complaint was referred to me, I contacted both parties to speak about my initial 
thoughts. I put these  to both Miss N and TSB to see if the complaint could be resolved.  After 
getting in touch with TSB I explained to Miss N that in addition  to the recommendations it 
had previously agreed to following our investigators review of the complaint, it had also 
agreed to:
Remove the late marker from November 2018  from Miss Ns credit file.
Pay Miss N a further £50 to reflect  Novembers  payment not being credited to her 
mortgage account successfully.
Reimburse Miss N two months mortgage payments directly back  to her mortgage 
account.
In addition to reimbursing the call costs made on 26, 28, 30 October 2018 and 
2 January 2019, it also confirmed it had agreed to refund  £13.30  for calls Miss N 
made when complaining. 
Miss N replied letting me know  she agreed with the recommendation to remove  the late 
markers from November and December 2018 from her credit  file. But said she didnt agree 
with the other recommendations for the following  reasons:
The call costs had been calculated incorrectly and the costs shed incurred were 
much more.  She also believes there are more calls made which she should  be 
reimbursed for. 
She feels she should be refunded for the total amount of mortgage payments  which  
were not credited to her mortgage account.  
Shes referred to the letter she received from TSB in relation to a returned standing  
order payment for a much smaller amount. She adds she cannot understand how 
she didnt receive a letter after the first standing order was returned  from her 
mortgage account.  
my findings 
Ref: DRN06077454Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im persuaded this 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. I will now explain  my reasons why.  
At the outset Id like to explain  that in this complaint  I appreciate there are a number of 
issues that have  been raised. While  I may not specifically comment  on each and every one 
this does not mean that I have not considered all of the information that has been  given to 
me by Miss N or TSB. Simply I have  commented on the aspects that I feel are key to this 
complaint. 
I also have to reach my decision  on some  aspects of this complaint, where there  is limited  
information available and where  it is one partys view against the other,  on what I feel is 
more likely than not to have happened  in all of the circumstances  of the complaint. 
Standing orders
TSB has been unable  to provide us with a copy of the letter  it says was sent to its customers  
letting them know the mortgage account details were changing. Miss N says she never 
received this letter. While I accept given the time thats passed TSB may not be able to 
provide us with a copy of the actual  letter  that was sent to its customers, its been unable  to 
confirm specifically when  this communication was sent  referring to the letter being sent 
prior to April 2018 or earlier in the year. So, it is unclear as to when this was sent and how 
much notice its customers received.  
But when considering this aspect, I have  to keep in mind all of the circumstances. 
I am aware  Miss N had a change in circumstances around the time the original  standing  
order payments started to be returned  to her account. Shes said she started a new job in 
April 2018 and was receiving a higher wage. Shes also said she didnt check  her account 
regularly - she checked her balance  every once in a while. 
I have thought about what Miss N has said about  her change in salary  and her thinking her 
money was going  further. But after reviewing some of Miss Ns current  account statements 
from around this time, while I can see her salary prior to April 2018 fluctuated, the 
statements indicate her salary was higher before her new role in April 2018.  So, Im not 
persuaded Miss Ns new job role would have led her to believe she had more money 
available. 
 
Miss N feels TSB should have contacted  her after the first returned payment. But TSB has 
said a customer would  only be contacted if the account went into arrears. And as shown 
above, I can see Miss Ns account  was in credit in April 2018, due to the overpayments  
made. 
I understand Miss Ns feelings about  this and that she has given us a copy of a letter she 
received from TSB for a standing order of a smaller amount. TSB says from a banking 
perspective a bank would be obliged to inform its customer of a returned  standing order  but 
that for mortgage  accounts letters would not have been sent when  a standing order  is not 
credited. The role of this service is not to tell a business how it should operate  and so I am 
unable to comment on TSBs process  in relation to this. I also have to keep in mind that I do 
think it would  have  been reasonable for Miss N to have noticed she wasnt  paying enough 
around the time. 
Ref: DRN06077455That said,  it is important to consider this point  in relation to the particular circumstances in 
this case. Miss N made her mortgage payments  by standing order   this was for the amount 
due each month and a slight  overpayment. So, leading up to this matter Miss N had built 
herself a cushion  due to the overpayments  putting her in front with her mortgage account. 
Because of this, I can understand  Miss Ns upset that her cushion  has now been used up. 
And in the absence  of TSB being able to tell us when communication  was sent to its 
customers, its unclear  as to how much notice Miss N would have received.
So, Im persuaded  that had Miss N received information that brought this issue to her 
attention sooner she could have looked  to mitigate  this matter. Taking everything Ive said 
above into account, I find a refund of two months  missed mortgage payments to be fair and 
reasonable in this case, which TSB has agreed to. Im aware Miss N feels  she should be 
refunded for the four months missed  payments, but as Ive said above, I do think it would 
have been reasonable  for Miss N to have noticed  the £500  payment going back into her 
account sooner  than she did.
 
From what  Ive seen, payments were received to the mortgage account  in September  and 
October 2018. Im aware that two payments were taken from Miss Ns account in October 
(the new standing order and the original one). TSB say this was because  the original  
standing order hadnt been cancelled.
Miss N questioned how the original standing order payment was taken in October  2018  
when it hadnt  been successful since April 2018. I can see Miss N promptly contacted  TSB 
about the two payments in October  and requested a refund for one of the payments. 
I believe this is most  likely because Miss N was monitoring  this more closely since  becoming 
aware of the issue. But had Miss N not contacted TSB so promptly, Im satisfied the payment 
would have been returned to her account,  as they had done  with all previous payments that 
had gone to the original  account  details. 
I understand that its not the case the original standing order was successful  in crediting the 
mortgage account in October, when  it had not been  in the previous months  but that the 
original standing order payment continued  to be taken from April to October 2018 (alongside  
the new standing  order between September and October), as it had not been cancelled. 
During this time, the money  went to a suspense account and it was then returned to Miss Ns 
account. 
Because of this, Ive not seen anything that shows the original  standing  order  was successful 
in October 2018  when  it was sent to the original account details.     
I do agree  with our investigators position that as TSB were aware from August 2018 the 
original standing order was set up for the old account details, it is reasonable it would have 
cancelled this sooner-  preventing the issue with the payments in September  and October  
where the standing  orders  were  taken for both the original and new account details. 
Based on this, I agree with the recommendation that TSB should pay Miss N £50 
compensation to reflect  this and to reimburse the cost of the calls she made on 26, 28 and 
30 October 2018. 
Miss N said she had to make numerous  phone calls and that she was on these calls for a 
long time costing her a lot. TSB has been unable to provide us with a copy of the telephone 
calls between it and Miss N. But has given  us notes of the calls. While it is disappointing the 
call recordings  are not available, I have considered what  Miss N has told us and the notes  
provided. I can see Miss N made  several  calls to TSB  but the notes provided indicate 
Ref: DRN06077456these were not all in relation to the mortgage standing order  and were about Miss Ns other 
accounts and services, such as Miss N wanting  to change other payment dates. This means 
Im unable to recommend  Miss N be reimbursed for all of the calls she made. 
Late payment markers 
I will now turn to the late payment markers  TSB has placed on Miss Ns credit file for 
November and December  2018. Having taken  everything Ive seen and been told into 
account, I again agree with the recommendation made by our investigator in relation to the 
December payment. As TSBs agent  amended the reference on the standing  order  in the call 
on 30 November, Im persuaded,  on balance, the error with Decembers payment not being 
credited to the mortgage account  is on TSBs  part. Because of this, I agree TSB should  
remove the late marker placed on Miss Ns credit file for the month of December. I also 
agree it should  pay Miss N a further £50 compensation to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience this caused and also reimburse her the cost of the call she had to make to 
TSB in January  2019  in relation to this. 
Miss N has told us TSB amended the standing orders and that the issue with the November 
payment crediting her mortgage account is also down to TSB. TSB says it wouldnt  have  
amended the standing  orders.  Having  looked  at Miss Ns account statements for November 
2018, I can see there was a standing order with a reference number and another  standing 
order which simply said, Mortgage Mortgage. Its not clear what  exactly  happened with the 
standing order in November, and in cases where  there is limited  information or conflicting 
versions of events, I will need to reach my decision on what I think is more  likely than not to 
have happened. 
Having done so, as Ive already explained to Miss N and TSB, Im persuaded that the 
problem with the standing order payment in November 2018,  was due to involvement from 
TSB. This is because, on balance, I think the issue with the November  payment  was either 
the result  of one of the standing orders being  cancelled in October by TSB or due to TSB 
assisting in amending the standing order. This means I find the late payment marker for 
November 2018  should be removed from Miss Ns credit file and that a further £50 
compensation be paid to reflect this. 
Miss N has also raised unhappiness with not receiving mortgage statements. She feels  what 
with the on-going IT issues with TSB, which meant  she was unable to view her accounts, at 
the very least she should have received information  that brought the issue to her attention  
sooner. Mortgage  statements are usually sent annually and from the information  Ive been 
given, I can see a mortgage statement was sent to Miss N in January 2019.  This would 
suggest mortgage statements were sent to Miss N annually in January. So, while I can 
understand Miss Ns personal views about  this, it doesnt appear TSB was due to provide 
Miss N with a detailed breakdown of her mortgage  account around the time the problems 
with the standing order started. 
Overall, its clear from what Ive said there  are times  in this case  where  TSB could have fairly 
done more. Im persuaded the recommendations set out in this decision reflect what I think  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
putting things right 
TSB Bank Plc should:
Ref: DRN06077457Reimburse Miss N two months of £500  mortgage payments directly back  to her 
mortgage account.
Remove the late markers from November and December 2018 from Miss Ns credit 
file.
If it hasnt  already, pay Miss N £150  compensation  in total - £50 to reflect  the 
inconvenience caused by not cancelling the original  standing order sooner and £100 
in recognition of the November and December 2018 payments not crediting the 
mortgage account successfully. 
If it hasnt  already, reimburse  Miss N the cost of the calls made on 26, 28 and 
30 October 2018 and 2 January 2019. Following receipt of Miss Ns call costs this is 
£66.72. Plus £13.30 for calls Miss N made  when complaining   taking the total call 
costs to be reimbursed to £80.02. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and direct TSB Bank Plc to put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2020.
Staci Rowland  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0607745