K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy about a claim he made  under a tools in transit insurance policy with 
Great Lakes Insurance SE, because it didnt cover all the items stolen when his van was 
broken into. 
background
In the spring of 2019 Mr S van was broken into whilst outside his home  and tools  he used 
for his trade were stolen. He made a claim on his insurance policy.  
Great Lakes asked for further information  about both the loss and the circumstances of the 
loss as follows:
List of tools claimed using the attached document
Proof of ownership  of all tools claimed for
Pictures of where the vehicle was parked at the time of incident
Pictures of the damage on the vehicle
Overall picture of the vehicle, including the registration plate
Copy of the Police report (picture of the card)
Copy of the V5C (logbook) for the vehicle; the front and inside pages
Mr S explained that he was only able to provide proof of purchase for tools  he had recently 
purchased, not those  he had accumulated over the years. 
Great Lakes responded and suggested alternative  forms  of evidence it would accept as 
proof of ownership  manuals, user guides,  service  receipts or photos. It also asked for 
details of any tools that were in the van, but had not been stolen. It repeated  its request for 
photos of the vehicle  and its location  at the time of loss.
Mr S provided three invoices and Great Lakes again wrote  to him explaining why it wanted  
the information it did. It asked him to fill out the spreadsheet with details of the tools  and, as 
best he could,  give an approximate cost and date of purchase.  He was also asked to provide 
any further proof of ownership he had. It again repeated its request for photos of the vehicle 
showing the registration plate and where  it had been  parked at the time of the theft.
Mr S gave Great Lakes  a completed  spreadsheet and it considered  the claim. As he had 
only provided evidence  of ownership for two of the items claimed  for it declined  the claim. It 
did so on the basis is the following policy condition:
3. You must provide  us with any receipts,  documents or proof of purchase,  that is 
reasonable for us to request or we may refuse  to consider your claim.
Mr S was unhappy with the decision.  Great Lakes repeated  its reason for declining  the claim 
 proof  of ownership  hadnt been provided  for the majority  of items claimed for. However, it 
decided to pay out on the two items  invoices  had been provided for, less the excess  and an 
amount for depreciation. 
Still unhappy with the outcome to his claim, Mr S asked this service to consider his 
complaint. After doing so, Mr S found some further invoices for tools/equipment  hed bought  
and sent them to us. We forwarded them to Great Lakes  for consideration. It said that one 
Ref: DRN04454552was for parts  rather than tools and other items  werent  on the list of tools claimed  for. It didnt 
change its stance on the claim.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  Mr S 
didnt accept the investigators view as he considered  he had provided the insurer with 
profound, and legitimate, evidence of purchases  from my van log book. As agreement  
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S policy,  like most of its nature, requires him to provide evidence of the existence and 
value of the items stolen. However, we do expect an insurer to behave reasonably if the 
majority of the stolen  items are evidenced  and for it to accept evidence other than in the form 
of receipts. Examples of typical alternative forms of evidence are photographs, boxes or 
manuals. Great Lakes seems to have taken this approach. 
Mr S was only able to provide receipts for two of the items on the claim list. He also provided 
a note book which included details of spending. These notes appear to be predominantly 
details of spending on his vehicle - fuel costs, MOT, repairs/parts  such  as windscreen  
wipers. However, there were some other purchases  recorded, but there was little information 
about the items and not many were detailed. I am not persuaded Great  Lakes was 
unreasonable in not settling further items  based  on this document.
Given that few of the items were  evidenced in relation  to their existence and value, overall, 
I dont think Great Lakes  was wrong in only partially  settling Mr Ss claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
13 September 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0445455