K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of C, a limited company hes a director of, that Lloyds Bank  PLC 
wont refund  £8,100 which was stolen from Cs bank due to a third party  scam.  
Lloyds Bank  PLC says theyre not liable for the loss because C authorised the payment and 
it could not reasonably have intervened, or done more  to try to recoup the money from the 
receiving bank. 
Background
Both Mr H, and his wife Mrs H, are directors of C. But, for ease of reference Ill refer to Mr H 
as carrying out actions on behalf  of C. Both Lloyds  and Mr H accept that Mr H authorised the 
scam payment of £8,100.  And he was duped  by the scammers into transferring the funds to 
them. After  getting  some genuine  building  work  completed, the scammers deceived  Mr H 
into believing that he was corresponding with the builders when in fact he was speaking to 
the scammers. 
Mr H realised the payment hadnt  been made to the correct account just over a week later,  
when he spoke with the builders. He contacted Lloyds who immediately contacted  the 
receiving bank but unfortunately no funds remained. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary,  she thought 
that the transaction wasnt unusual or out of character and therefore she wouldnt have 
expected it to trigger a response from the bank.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion. In doing so he raised a number of further 
points, and in summary  said:
-He doesnt  accept that one payment to a new payee shouldnt trigger action from the 
bank. And all the previous similar sized payments which  had been  made  during the 
previous 12 months were  to existing payees. 
-In other  countries  this type of scam  had been prevented.
-If Lloyds knew about this scam, didnt they have  a responsibility to notify  their 
customers?
As Mr H didnt  accept our investigators outcome its been passed  to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr H was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. C used their security credentials to request the payment. So, although  
they didnt intend the money to go to the scammers,  under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009, and the terms and conditions of her account, C is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. 
I also need to take into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes and 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  In summary 
Ref: DRN02347572this says that Lloyds  have  a responsibility to monitor  accounts and payments made to, 
amongst other things,  prevent  fraud  and scams. And they need to have  systems  in place to 
look out for unusual transactions  or other signs that might indicate its customers are at risk 
of fraud.
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr H but Im not satisfied that Lloyds  should  have 
contacted C and queried the transaction. I say this because I dont think  that Cs transaction  
was unusual. And therefore  I dont think it should  have triggered  Lloyds  fraud detection 
systems. Its clear that Cs payment  was made  to a new payee, but I wouldnt expect a new 
payee on its own to trigger Lloyds fraud  detection measures. Ive gone on to consider 
whether there were any of the other  signs which might indicate fraud was present at the 
time, and Im afraid I dont find this is the case. 
Looking at the 12 months preceding  the transaction, I can see Cs account regularly had 
spending via a variety  of means including faster payments, and of a similar  size to the scam 
payment. And the spending  over the same  period  of time wasnt vastly different to that of 
preceding months  when  the scam payment was made. Therefore, when considering Cs 
previous account  activity,  Im not satisfied there  was a sudden increase in spending, nor was 
it a payment for a larger amount than usual, or a sudden change  to the normal  operation of 
Cs account. Ive also considered the balance of Cs account at the time, and whether the 
scam payment took Cs account  down  to a low balance  at which point I might have 
expected Lloyds to act. But this wasnt the case, after the scam  payment was made, Cs 
account had over £60,000 remaining.  For these  reasons I wouldnt have expected Lloyds 
fraud detection measures  to be triggered,  or the bank to contact  Mr H about the transaction. 
Did Lloyds do enough to try to recover the stolen funds?
Ive gone on to consider whether Lloyds also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to 
recover the stolen  funds from the payee bank, before they were irretrievably removed by the 
scammers. Ive seen evidence from Lloyds that they made contact with the receiving bank 
immediately after receiving contact  from Mr H. And Im satisfied that the bank did make 
efforts to recover the funds, but theyd  unfortunately been removed by this point  by the 
scammers. 
Mr Hs view response
Mr H responded to our investigators view with a number of points including; that he thinks a 
new payee on its own should be enough  to trigger  the bank to take action, fraud of this type 
had been prevented in other  countries at this time,  and therefore Lloyds should have been 
proactive in notifying their customers. 
Ive considered Mr Hs points here. Firstly,  whether a new payee on its own should be 
enough to trigger  the banks fraud detection measures.  But Im afraid I dont  agree  with his 
argument here. Its true that banks do have a responsibility to detect and prevent fraud and 
included in this role is transaction monitoring. But the best practice standards make  it clear 
that banks are expected to look out for signs of unusual  activity. And Im not satisfied that on 
its own the creation  of a new payee is enough  to indicate unusual  activity and warrant  
intervention from a bank.  
I can see why Mr H has raised his second point. And I understand why hes frustrated by the 
thought this scam was known to Lloyds  and other  countries  had put in place measures to 
prevent fraud of this nature. Im not aware whether this is the case or not  but Ive seen the 
Ref: DRN02347573research Mr H carried out. However,  Im afraid this doesnt change my thoughts  on whether 
Lloyds have a responsibility to refund Cs money.  I say this because  I can only be guided  by 
the regulations  and good industry practice Lloyds were expected to follow.  Its not my role to 
comment on the sufficiency of the regulations  or good industry practice,  but instead to 
determine if I think Lloyds  followed  them.  And as I already  explained Im satisfied they did. 
I realise this will very disappointing  to Mr H, but I wont  be asking Lloyds do anything  further 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Cs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0234757