K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited handled his travel  insurance claim. 
background 
Mr G has a travel insurance policy as part of his packaged bank account. 
In January 2019, Mr G travelled to Doha,  where  he unfortunately fractured his tooth. On     
15 January 2016,  he talked  to UKI and he was advised he was covered for up to £500 of 
emergency pain relief treatment. He was also asked to request a receipt for his treatment  
and to make  a claim once  he returned  home.  Mr G was unhappy with this as he believed 
UKI should pay for his treatment or process  the refund straight away.  The adviser tried to 
help with this request,  but the call ended  after Mr G requested  to speak to a manager.  The 
clinic also had a conversation with UKI on the same  day and they were provided with the 
same information. 
On 16 January 2019, Mr G underwent root canal treatment and paid for it directly. He also 
asked the clinic to speak to UKI to get a guarantee of payment for the second  part of his 
treatment, which the clinic  said included  a porcelain crown or implant. During this call, UKI 
repeated that Mr G was only covered for pain relief treatment and he would  need  to request 
a refund after hed had the treatment. The clinic said they would be prepared to work with 
UKI, but the only treatment that related to pain relief was antibiotics and completion of the 
root canal treatment.  In response, UKI confirmed  that Mr G would  need  to pay for the 
treatment directly.
On 18 January 2019, Mr G talked  to UKIs  complaint  team and they agreed to send the clinic 
a guarantee of payment,  provided the clinic  was prepared to work with them.  They also 
asked Mr G to send  them a medical  report and said they were sorry he didnt receive a call 
back from a manager  as requested.
On 21 January 2019, Mr G was informed that UKI couldnt send a guarantee  of payment to 
the clinic  as they were  refusing to accept  it. This information was incorrect as it was actually 
UKIs agent that wasnt able to work with the clinic.  This issue was resolved  by UKI using 
their direct billing address rather than their agents.
Two guarantees of payment were subsequently sent to the clinic on the 25 January 2019 
and 26 January 2019. The first guarantee said Mr G was covered for required treatment 
under the terms  of the policy and the second  highlighted the relevant policy terms. The 
covering email for the second guarantee also explained that Mr G wasnt covered for the 
cost of a crown or an implant. Mr G was also informed that a crown  wouldnt be covered and 
referred to the policy terms.
Following this, Mr G completed his treatment, including the placement  of a crown  at a 
different clinic which he paid for directly.  UKI then refunded the cost of his treatment 
excluding the cost of the crown and the policy excess.
Mr G has raised  a complaint as he believes his claim should be settled in full. Hes also 
requested substantial compensation for the customer  service  he received.  
In response to the complaint, UKI said theyd settled  the claim in line with the policy  terms, 
so they didnt think they needed to increase the settlement. However, they offered Mr G 
Ref: DRN07645932£100 compensation to say sorry for the poor customer service they provided. This included 
the delay in sending the guarantee of payment, providing incorrect information  about the 
refusal of the guarantee and not responding to Mr Gs request to speak to a manager.
Our investigator then considered the complaint. She concluded UKI had settled the claim 
reasonably as Mr G was only covered for treatment that related to emergency pain relief and 
this didnt include the cost of a crown. She also thought there had been some customer 
service failings. However, she concluded  that the £100 compensation UKI had already paid 
Mr G was fair. 
UKI accepted the opinion but Mr G didnt.  In summary, he said UKI originally agreed to cover  
the cost of all of his treatment, so they shouldnt  have  changed  their mind. He also said he 
believes UKI should pay him a lot more compensation  to say sorry for the way he was 
treated.
Ive therefore  considered  the complaint afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
how was UKI required  to consider the claim?
Under the relevant rules  and appropriate  industry  guidelines UKI was required to consider
Mr Gs claim promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt decline it unreasonably.
The policy wording says:
Emergency medical  expenses abroad  We will pay up to 10,000,000 per insured  
person towards  emergency medical, surgical  or hospital treatment required whilst 
you are on a journey  (dental limit 500 per insured person for relief  of immediate 
pain)
And there is no cover:
12. For treatment for dental work involving  the use of precious metals.
13. For treatment for dental work which  is not to relieve immediate  pain only
This means,  Mr G was only covered for dental treatment that related to emergency pain 
relief and didnt  involve precious metals.
The medical report says:
Mr G attended for our dental centre  on 16/1/2019 with fractured tooth and severe  
pain in lower quadrant.  Patient gives history  of taking several anti-inflammatory drugs 
Ref: DRN07645933to reduce pain since yesterday. Intraoral examination  and radiographic examination 
shows tooth no 35 has been broken  which was root canal  treated earlier. 
Now root filling is exposed  and tooth tender. Given the option of extraction and 
replacement with implant or re root canal treatment,  post and core and crown 
placement. 
This report suggests Mr G would need  to have a crown to complete his treatment but it 
doesnt automatically follow that it is covered  under his travel  insurance policy. Thats 
because the medical  evidence  doesnt  suggest this aspect of the dental treatment was for 
pain relief. In addition, as mentioned above, the clinic also informed UKI on 16 January 
2019, that the only treatment Mr G needed  for pain relief was the root canal  treatment and 
antibiotics. So, I dont  think UKI acted unreasonably  by concluding the crown  wasnt covered 
under the terms  of the policy.
Mr G has explained he was originally  told his full claim would be covered and it is for this 
reason the settlement should now be increased.  However, the evidence doesnt  support this 
conclusion. I say this because during each conversation Mr G had with UKI he was told he 
would only be covered for pain relief treatment. Mr G has highlighted the fact UKI sent the 
clinic two guarantees of payment. However,  both of these documents are factually  correct  
and neither of them  say Mr G would be covered for a crown. As mentioned above, Mr G had 
also previously been informed that he was only covered for emergency pain relief, so there 
shouldnt have been any confusion. And in any event, Mr G didnt complete his treatment 
until after the second guarantee had been sent. 
Mr G has said he feels UKI should have sent a guarantee of payment  straight  away instead 
of asking him to claim a refund.  I dont think it was unreasonable  for UKI to ask Mr G to pay 
and claim in the circumstances of this case.  Thats not uncommon in the travel insurance  
industry in relation to claims which are likely to cost less than £500  or involve outpatient 
treatment. UKI has also explained that it isnt their usual process to work with dentists as 
they dont usually accept guarantee of payments.  As such, I dont think  UKI acted 
unreasonably by suggesting  Mr G make  a claim for a refund following his treatment.   
should the compensation be increased?
I think the £100 compensation UKI has already  paid Mr G is fair, so Im not directing them  to 
increase it. 
The delay UKI caused  in relation to sending the guarantee of payment, caused  Mr G 
frustration, however, it didnt cause  his treatment to be delayed. This is because  hed already 
scheduled an appointment  for the week after the guarantee was received and I understand 
he decided to use a different  clinic  in any event.  Mr G was also incorrectly told the clinic  was 
refusing to accept  the guarantee of payment and denied a call back  from a manager.  
The consequences of the above werent long lasting, and I think  this trouble  and upset is 
fairly reflected in the £100 compensation that has already been paid.
Ref: DRN07645934my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 27 March 2020. 
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0764593