K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains via a personal  representative  - Mr D - that Southern Rock Insurance 
Company unfairly  cancelled his car insurance policy and didnt refund his premium.
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to Southern Rock  when talking  about  their agents or 
representatives. 
In late January 2019 Mr B took out a car insurance  with Southern  Rock.  The insurance 
policy required that a black  box be installed  in Mr Bs car within  14 days of the start of the 
policy. 
Mr B made an appointment for the black box to be installed near the end of the 14-day 
period. Prior to the fitting Mr B was involved in two incidents. The first was an accident in a 
car park where a third party claimed against  Mr Bs policy for damage and personal injury.  
The second  was that Mr B drove  through a puddle and the car suffered  water damage to the 
engine causing  it to fail. So, Mr B put his car into a garage to be fixed. 
The installation of the black box required the car to have a working  engine.  As Mr Bs engine 
wasnt working, he had to cancel the installation appointment. Mr D called Southern  Rock  to 
explain the situation. Southern Rock said the policy was likely to be cancelled  within  7 days if 
the box was not fitted, unless an extension was granted. 
On receiving the cancellation notice,  Mr D asked  for an extension to have the black box 
fitted, as the garage was waiting for parts for the car. He said he would  try to get the car 
fixed quicker. But when  he contacted  the black box fitters, they said the next installation  
appointment that they had available wasnt until the beginning of March 2019. Mr B could 
only use the specified company outlined in the terms of his policy to install the black  box. 
Southern Rock refused the extension  request,  as it would  have  meant the black box was not 
installed for 32 days in total.  Southern Rock said the policy  would need to be cancelled,  
unless the box was fitted within the cancellation  notice period.    
As Mr B was unable  to have the black box installed, the policy  was cancelled. The remaining 
premium wasnt  returned  to Mr B, as Southern  Rock  said a fault claim had been made 
against him. Mr B said he had to take his car off the road and pay for a garage to store the 
car in.
Mr D complained to Southern Rock on behalf  of Mr B that the policy had been  cancelled and 
premium not refunded.  In response, Southern Rock said that the policy was cancelled  in line 
with its terms,  as the black box was not fitted  within 14 days. And, they kept the premium as 
a fault claim had been made against the policy. So, they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B remained unhappy.  So Mr D brought the complaint to us on his behalf. I sent Mr B and 
Southern Rock my provisional decision on 5 February 2020. I explained that I thought 
Southern Rock hadnt acted fairly  in cancelling Mr Bs policy.  So, I said they should  
compensate Mr B for the loss of use of his car as well as storage cost and compensation for 
the upset caused. Ive copied my findings  from my provisional decision below.
Ref: DRN00987952my provisional findings
In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I intend  to uphold,  as I dont think 
Southern Rock treated Mr B fairly when they cancelled his policy.   
Mr B had made an appointment to have his black box fitted  within the initial  14-day period. 
However, due to the engine being  flooded Mr Bs car was unable  to have the black  box fitted  
at that appointment.
Mr D explained the reason  why the black box couldnt be fitted when he called 
Southern Rock. Mr D also tried to book  another appointment to have the black box fitted 
within cancellation notice  period. But, he was told that there were no appointments  available  
until 1 March 2019 any way. Mr B was bound by the terms of his policy  to solely  use one 
company to fit the black box. The car remained in the garage  during this time and was 
unable to be driven. Southern Rock were facing  little risk in allowing an extension  to have 
the black box fitted as the car couldnt be driven.  So, the risk of the car would have  been  
involved in any incidents was significantly reduced. Mr B may also have  been  able to get the 
car fixed earlier within the cancellation  period if thered  been  an appointment available  to fit 
the box.
So I think Southern  Rock were unreasonably  inflexible and cancelled  the cover under the 
terms of the policy. And that they acted  unfairly  by not considering Mr Bs unique 
circumstances. I think  it would have  been  reasonable  for them  to grant  the extension. 
So, I dont think Southern Rock should have cancelled  Mr Bs policy.
I appreciate that Mr B would like the premium refunded to him, but this was a cost that Mr B 
was always going  to incur to have his car insured  for the year.  Mr B made clear attempts to 
have the black  box fitted and so had Southern Rock granted the extension I believe Mr B 
would have had this done. I think it is more  likely  than not that Mr B wouldnt  have  cancelled  
the policy, but continued to use the remainder of his policy and been  able to drive his car. 
He may also still make  a claim for having his engine repaired.  
Once the policy was cancelled, Mr B said he had to register his car as off road  and put it in 
storage. This is because  Mr B said he had only just paid his last premium, as well as paying 
to repair  his car so was not in a financial position to immediately take out new cover. Even if 
he had, Mr D called the broker who said they were unable to provide any quotes for new 
policies for Mr B. He also didnt have use of any other car.
For these reasons, Mr B was unable to mitigate  the loss of use of his car until he was able to 
take out a new insurance policy in November 2019.  So, I have considered what  would be a 
fair approach in Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B said that he bought  the car to commute to and from work, as well as to drive it socially 
in the evenings and weekends. Mr D has said that Mr B was excited to drive having just 
passed his test. Therefore, I think it is more likely than not that Mr B would have used his car 
daily, including at weekends. Instead, Mr B had to rely on others  for lifts, walk or use his 
bicycle. So, I think he should  get £10 a day for loss of use in these circumstances.  Loss of 
use is a payment claimants  often receive  for the inconvenience and costs  associated with 
Ref: DRN00987953not having their car, so I think  it is the right way to consider appropriate compensation for 
Mr B in this particular case. 
In calculating the total number of days Mr B lost the use of his car, I have considered that 
Mr D explained at the time that he would try to get the car out of the garage  before the policy  
was cancelled. Had an appointment been available to have the black box fitted,  I think it is 
likely that Mr D would have tried to do this. The policy was cancelled  in February until the 
new insurance policy started in November  a total of 265 days.
Sothern Rock  have accepted that they could have been more flexible on getting  the black  
box fitted. So, I think Southern Rock should  pay Mr B £2,650 for the loss of use of his car in 
this period, as this loss of use flowed directly  from Southern Rocks unreasonable decision to 
cancel his policy. 
I have also seen evidence  that Mr B was unable to keep the car on a private driveway  or 
garage having notified it as off road. So, I accept he had to rent a garage at a cost of £10.68 
a week. Mr B kept the car in the garage  for a total of 32 weeks until he was able to take out 
the new insurance policy. This is a direct cost that Mr B incurred due to the insurance policy  
being cancelled,  and not being allowed to keep the car on the road. Therefore, Southern  
Rock should reimburse or pay these storage costs up to a total of £341.76  
Southern Rock have said that they cancelled the policy, as if it had been done by Mr B 
himself. So, no adverse reporting  was made  to the central database.  So I dont think  Mr B 
needs to be compensated for the effect  the cancellation had on his future premiums. 
Finally, Ive considered  the general  distress  and inconvenience Mr B experienced as a result  
of Southern Rocks  unreasonable  approach. I can see that Mr B experienced a great deal of 
distress as a result  of Southern Rocks actions. He had the disappointment  of having his 
policy cancelled and being unable to drive   something which  he was excited to do. And the 
hassle and embarrassment of having  to ask others for lifts. Plus, he had to travel by bicycle, 
when this takes a lot longer for most journeys.  And, this continued over a period of nearly 
nine months. He also had to find storage  for the vehicle as well as finding another  insurer. 
But most of this is reflected in the award  for loss of use, which is really for the inconvenience 
and impact of not having his car. So, I think its only appropriate for me to award a small 
amount for the distress  surrounding the issue and complaint.  And this has to reflect the fact 
that  in the main Mr D handled the matter for Mr B. And I think £100 in compensation is 
appropriate.
the response to my provisional  decision
Both Mr B and Southern Rock accepted my provisional decision, so the case has been  
passed back to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision.  That means I have 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.
Ref: DRN00987954my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I uphold the 
complaint. I direct Southern Rock Insurance Company to pay Mr B;
1.£2,650 for loss of use of his car.
2.£341.76 for the storage costs  of his car.
3.£100 compensation for the upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0098795