K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) didnt  pay her home insurance claim, 
and that it voided her policy.
background
Mrs A has a home  insurance  policy which is underwritten by Lloyds. Under her policy,  Mrs A 
had £30,000 cover for her valuables. Unfortunately in January 2017 Mrs As home was 
burgled and her jewellery was stolen. Mrs A reported  it to the police and made a claim under  
her policy.
Lloyds didnt assess Mrs As claim because she was claiming for between  £60,000  and 
£70,000 worth of jewellery. It explained that she had misrepresented the value of her 
jewellery when  she renewed the policy a month earlier and it wouldnt have provided 
insurance without  her having  an alarm  fitted. So it voided her policy and refunded  her 
premiums. Mrs A complained.
Our investigator asked  Lloyds to get a loss adjuster to assess the value of Mrs As jewellery 
as we couldnt see that it had done  this. Once  it had done this it showed that Mrs As 
jewellery was underinsured.  And, Lloyds provided evidence  that Mrs A had said when she 
reported the claim that she had £60,000 to £70,000 worth of jewellery  stolen. Mrs A had said 
that she wasnt aware of the value of the jewellery  until she had done research some  time 
later.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that Mrs A had put the £60,000  -
£70,000 figure forward at the time she first contacted the insurer  to register the claim and 
prior to any of her conversations  with a loss adjuster. And so he concluded that when she 
had renewed her policy in December 2016  she had been careless as to how valuable  her 
jewellery was. As Lloyds  wouldnt have provided  insurance to Mrs A without having an alarm  
fitted it hadnt acted  unfairly in voiding her policy and refunding  her premiums  because  Mrs 
A wouldnt have satisfied the insurance conditions as she didnt have an alarm.
Mrs A disagreed. She said when she renewed  she didnt realise  the jewellery was worth  
more than £30,000 which is what she was covered for. She also felt that her receipts show  
that the jewellery was worth less, and that she wouldve  installed  an alarm had she known.  
So shes  asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
was Mrs A underinsured?
When Mrs A reported the burglary to the police  and to Lloyds she said that she had around 
£60,000 - £70,000  of jewellery stolen. I understand that she felt when she renewed  the 
policy that her jewellery was worth less than this, but it was only three weeks  before  her 
burglary that she renewed her policy. And it was clear at renewal that she was only covered 
for £30,000 worth of valuables. I think its likely when  she renewed that she shouldve been 
aware her jewellery was worth more. I dont  think any of this was deliberate,  but I do think  
Ref: DRN05787432that Mrs A failed to take reasonable care in giving a value when she renewed her policy. 
This led her to being underinsured.
Mrs A has since said that she believes her jewellery  wasnt worth  over £30,000  which was 
the amount she was covered for. However,  Ive seen the itemised  list of valuables that Mrs A 
claimed for, and Ive seen the loss adjusters report. Whilst many of the items  havent been 
able to be substantiated at this stage the loss adjuster has said that its likely  the claimed 
amount for the valuables would be in line with the recommended  retail  price  as it 
corresponds with other items. From looking at the evidence, I think  its likely the value of the 
claim for valuables is in excess of £60,000   which means Mrs A was underinsured.
would Lloyds have  provided insurance?
Lloyds have demonstrated that they would not have insured Mrs A on the same terms had it 
been aware of how much  cover she needed for valuable items  within  her home. It has 
demonstrated that its underwriting criteria requires her to have an alarm installed on her 
home. If Mrs A had this alarm then it would  have provided cover.  However Mrs A didnt have 
an alarm  installed, and so it wouldnt have provided  insurance.
I understand that Mrs A feels that Lloyds should have told her about the alarm condition, and 
that she would have had one installed. However when she renewed her insurance, she gave  
an incorrect figure which meant it wouldnt have need to inform her of this. So Mrs A didnt 
meet the additional conditions needed  to insure  her valuables.
Have Lloyds acted fairly?
Lloyds has voided  Mrs As policy and refunded her premiums. This is in line with the relevant 
law that applies when  a consumer has given incorrect information when applying  for 
insurance. Lloyds  has demonstrated that it wouldve only insured Mrs A if she had an alarm  
fitted. As she didnt  meet this condition, it wouldnt have  offered her insurance. So it has 
acted fairly  in voiding the policy and refunding  her premiums.
I understand Mrs As strength of feeling  that she didnt  give misleading information   and I 
agree that she wasnt deliberately misleading.  But I do think she failed to take reasonable 
care not to misrepresent the value of her jewellery  when she renewed her policy. As such, I 
think Lloyds has acted  reasonably in voiding her policy and refunding  the premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2018.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0578743