K821x#15complaint
Mr F and Mrs S have complained about the way that Shawbrook Bank Limited 
(Shawbrook) has dealt  with a claim they made under section  75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In late 2013 Mr F and Mrs S entered into an agreement with a company called PV Solar UK 
Limited (PV Solar)  for the supply  and installation of a solar panel system. The cost of the 
system was £10,170.
Mr F and Mrs S paid deposit  of £100 but the balance of the cost was paid for by a fixed-term  
loan arranged by PV Solar with Shawbrook.  The loan was to be repaid monthly over a term 
of 15 years with interest.
PV Solar had cold-called Mrs S and explained  the benefits  of having solar panels.   Mr F and 
Mrs S say that the salesman  told them  the financial benefits generated by the system would 
cover the cost of the loan, and so make the system  self-funding over its 15-year term.  
Those benefits come in the form of energy  bill savings and Feed-in Tariff (FiT) payments 
from selling  excess energy back to the grid.
But Mr F and Mrs S say the system hasnt performed as they were led to believe.   Under 
s.75 a finance provider  can be held responsible  for misrepresentations and breaches of 
contract to the same extent as the supplier of goods  or services.  So, Mr F and Mrs S made  
a claim to Shawbrook as they feel the system was misrepresented to them.
Initially Shawbrook rejected the claim.  It said that the system has performed in line with the 
estimations given when the system  was installed,  and so there  was no misrepresentation.  
But Shawbrook did offer £200  for delay in dealing with the claim.
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, the solicitor representing  Mr F and Mrs S referred  
their complaint to this Service.   One  of our investigators started looking into the complaint 
and Shawbrook reviewed  its position.
Shawbrook agreed  to make the solar panels  self-funding and calculated  that the likely 
financial benefits generated  by the system would be £11,842.31.   So, it offered Mr F and Mrs 
S compensation of £2,000  in addition to the £200  for distress  and inconvenience.
The investigator noted that Mr F and Mrs S had paid off their loan with Shawbrook after just 
three, monthly payments, and refinanced the debt with another  bank.  She set out how 
Shawbrook should  calculate any loss and overpayments for the original loan and the new 
loan.
The solicitor  representing  Mr F and Mrs S said they agreed with the investigators  view in 
principle, but wanted to know what  sum the calculations  would produce.   The solicitor  said 
the total cost of the system including loan interest was £11,543.50.  when factoring in the 
cost of refinancing  the loan with another bank.
Shawbrook didnt respond to the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed 
for an ombudsmans  decision.   In preparation  of my review, another  investigator  checked 
over the complaint file and contacted Mr F and Mrs S representative.  She explained  that 
Ref: DRN06503922having reviewed  the calculations  (which  she set out), Shawbrooks offer of £2,000 
compensated Mr F and Mrs S fairly.
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Im satisfied 
Shawbrooks offer of £2,000 (in addition to the £200 for distress and inconvenience) is fair in 
the circumstances.
For there to be a valid s.75 claim,  there must  be an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship.  Im  satisfied  that exists here and Shawbrook has accepted responsibility, so I 
wont expand further.  
Shawbrook calculated that over the 15-year term of the original  loan term the solar panel  
system would generate  £11,842.31 in financial benefits.  It based that calculation upon  the 
systems historic performance and future  estimations  using the recommendations of an 
industry expert.  Im satisfied this is a reasonable approach.
I understand that when Mr F and Mrs S purchased  the solar panels,  the original loan with 
Shawbrook would have  cost them £19,649.80 with interest if they had repaid it over the full 
15-year term. However,  I note that after just three  months  of making loan payments,  Mr F 
and Mrs S refinanced  the debt over a shorter term with another finance provider.  
I dont think its fair to ask Shawbrook to compensate Mr F and Mrs S for what  the loan 
would have cost them had they not re-financed. But my intention is to ensure the system  
hasnt cost Mr F and Mrs S more  than the financial benefits theyll  receive over a 15-year  
period.  
I realise that by re-financing over a shorter loan term Mr F and Mrs S have reduced  the 
interest payable, and the overall cost is less.  So, I agree that Shawbrook should ensure the 
compensation it pays reflects both the original loan and the new loan when considering the 
cost.
The investigator recently set out a breakdown of the how the costs for both loans are 
calculated to Mr F and Mrs S solicitor   and so I wont  repeat it here.  But as the second 
loan had a term of only 5 years, it has now been repaid in full and the actual costs are now 
known.
Mr F and Mrs S confirmed the total amount theyve paid towards the loans to pay for the 
solar panels  and service  the loan interest is £11,543.50.  The  investigators breakdown 
showed that because the second loan incurred  significantly less interest  than the original 
loan, the 15-year benefits exceed what Mr F and Mrs S have paid for the system.  Using  that 
calculation, it was only the initial few payments made to Shawbrook  for the loan at outset 
that were overpaid  compared to the benefits.  I realise that Mr F and Mrs S wont  receive all 
the benefits that form part of the calculations until 15 years have passed  and Ive 
considered that in making my decision.
Overall, Im satisfied the offer made by Shawbrook of £2,000 is reasonable and 
compensates Mr F and Mrs S fairly.
Ref: DRN06503923Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience Mr F and Mrs S have experienced as a 
result of Shawbrook not addressing their concerns earlier.   Im aware its offered £200 to 
reflect that  and thats in line with what I would have recommended.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr F and Mrs S complaint against Shawbrook Bank 
Limited.
To put things right, Im satisfied the offer Shawbrook has made (as set out above) is fair and 
reasonable  and I leave  it to Mr F and Mrs S to decide whether to accept it or not.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0650392