K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited (Advantage)  didnt offer a 
fair market value for a vehicle when he made a motor insurance claim. Mr P is also unhappy 
with how reached  its valuation.
In my decision Ill refer to the business as Advantage  rather than Hastings, as Advantage are 
the underwriters of the policy  and Hastings the brokers.  
background
Mr P made a claim after his car was stolen.  Advantage said theyd usually  reach a valuation 
by considering a number  of relevant motor trade  guides, but in this case only one guide  gave 
a valuation. Based on this, Advantage initially offered Mr P £13,666. 
Mr P provided evidence of the value of similar  vehicles  to his. This included  adverts and 
valuations from independent garages. Advantage then increased  their offer to £17,500 and 
offered Mr P £50 for the service hed received from them. Mr P also rejected this valuation  
as he thinks £18,640  is a more appropriate  amount.  
Mr P also complained that he hadnt  received the correct settlement for personal items that 
had been stolen. B accepted the wording of the renewal document wasnt  clear  and that it 
hadnt given him the correct amount for his belongings. They corrected the amount  they paid 
for his belongings and paid him a total of £150 compensation. 
Mr P then referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator, in summary, found that 
Advantage offer of £17,500 was fair as it was in the middle of three independent valuations 
that Mr P had obtained. Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings and said that his 
vehicle was actually  appreciating in value due to demand and relatively low supply - so the 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the other  issues  Mr P complained about seem  to have been  resolved, Im going to focus 
on Advantages valuation of the car. I note the most recent renewal document  from a few 
months before the car was stolen listed the estimated value of Mr Ps vehicle as £16,250.  
Our service doesnt usually value cars.  Instead we look at whether an insurer has reached a 
valuation fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy. 
In summary,  Mr Ps policy  stated that itd pay the market value of the car prior to the loss. 
Market value is described by the policy as:
The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of a similar  make, model, age and condition. Publications may be used 
which refer to vehicle  values such as. to assess the market value , with an allowance 
being made for the mileage, condition and circumstances  of purchase by you.
Ref: DRN05841802Our service generally thinks  that the fairest  approach when for an insurer to take when 
making a valuation is to consider relevant motor trade guides. These are based  on extensive 
national research of likely  selling  prices rather than advertised prices. And they can provide 
valuations based  on the make, model, age, condition and specification  of a car. So we 
generally find them more  reliable than adverts which dont take account  of any negotiation  
from the advertised price.
However, in this specific case,  because of the age and model of Mr Ps vehicle, the motor 
trade guides havent been too useful as a reliable  guide for the valuation. Our investigator  
considered the motor  trade valuation services,  but Advantages offer was higher than two of 
the valuations  and lower than the other. 
Mr P has provided adverts showing  prices  for similar  vehicles to his own.  These  are a 
mixture of private sellers  and motor traders. But Ive kept in mind that these types  of adverts 
are often used as a starting point for price negotiations - so the advertised prices  arent  
necessarily reflective of the actual vehicle value.
Advantage provided examples of adverts  too. But Im in agreement with Mr P that these 
arent the same model of vehicle  that hes claiming  for. So I dont place much  weight  on 
them.
Im most persuaded by three independent  garage valuations Mr Ps provided, as they have 
knowledge of similar cars. The garages gave valuations of £16,995,  £17,000 and £18,000. 
Out of the three, Advantages improved is higher than two of them.  In particular the garage 
that had been looking after the vehicle for some  years prior to the claim valued it at 
approximately £17,000. 
Mr P has expressed concerns about how Advantage reached  their valuation. I agree they 
initially undervalued  the car but Im pleased to see they revised their valuation  after 
considering more information.  Advantage  has also paid Mr P £50 for the poor service  in 
relation to this - which  I think  is fair and reasonable. Based on all the evidence  Ive seen, 
I think that Advantages offer to settle the claim is fair, reasonable and in line with the policy  
terms. 
I appreciate that this wont be the answer that Mr P wanted, but I thank him for the effort  hes 
gone to providing  examples of the price of similar models to the one hes claiming  for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0584180