K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc (Clydesdale) sold him a life assurance policy  to 
repay his mortgage  when  he already had an existing policy in place.
background
In October  2007, Mr G arranged a new mortgage  with Clydesdale  for £250,000  over a term 
of 15 years.  At the same  time, Mr G was also sold a decreasing life assurance policy - with 
the sum assured reducing in line with the mortgage  balance over the 15 year term. 
In September  2012, Mr G was referred to an adviser  by Clydesdales  business banking  
partner - to look at life assurance cover for his business loans. The adviser completed a 
review of Mr Gs circumstances before  arranging  the business  loan life assurance. However, 
when undertaking the review they discussed that Mr G had two mortgages - one residential, 
and one investment,  without any protection in place to cover  them.  As both mortgages  had 
11 years  outstanding, the adviser recommended one decreasing life assurance policy for 
£307,803 to cover both amounts over the 11 year term.
In October  2017 Mr G noticed that he had life assurance cover for his residential mortgage 
twice - so he contacted  Clydesdale to see what he should do next as he only needed one 
policy. In January 2018, when Mr G hadnt received a satisfactory response from them he 
made a complaint. He said he felt hed been mis-sold the new life assurance policy for the 
£307,803, as he already had life assurance  for his residential mortgage  in place from 2007.   
Clydesdale didnt uphold  the complaint. They said Mr G had told the adviser that he didnt 
have any existing cover  in place - and the adviser could only make  recommendations using 
the information Mr G had given him. They said the adviser had noted Mr G had wanted 
cover for both mortgages if he should  die. And as both the mortgages had 11 years  left to 
pay hed recommended one policy  to cover both the outstanding balances  of £307,803 
over an 11 year term. 
Clydesdale also said that if Mr G hadnt wanted  the policy he wouldve had 30 days from the 
date it started to cancel  it without incurring any costs. Mr G didnt agree - so he asked this 
service to look into his complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Clydesdale had done anything wrong. He thought that the 
meeting notes from 2012 were clear that Mr G didnt have any existing  cover. He also 
thought that Mr G had been given the opportunity  to review these and correct any errors 
before taking out the policy. He felt that the adviser wouldnt have been aware of Mr Gs 
existing policy and his recommendation  had been made based on what Mr G had said.  So 
he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.   
Mr G didnt agree as he felt that the adviser was aware of his existing cover.  As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed to me to decide. I issued two 
provisional decisions saying why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I said in my first 
provisional decision that:
Ref: DRN00684762mis-sale of the policies
Mr G has said that feels  he was mis-sold a policy for £307,803 instead of the 
£124,922 he needed. He told us he feels the adviser was aware  - or shouldve  been 
aware - that he already  had an existing life assurance policy  in place for his 
residential mortgage. And I agree.  Ive seen evidence from Clydesdale that the 
adviser noted you have  admitted that you have two mortgages at present, one on 
your main  residence and one on an investment  property, and have  no life cover  in 
place for this. 
However, as Mr G took out the first policy through Clydesdale directly in the same 
branch, I think its reasonable for him to think the adviser would already be aware  of 
his existing cover  or have requested details from his business manager of any 
previous advice hed been given. Ive also noted that the adviser  was aware  of the 
details of the business loans and mortgaged properties held with Clydesdale, so Im 
not persuaded they wouldnt also have been able to be aware of any protection  
policies hed been advised  to put in place.  
Clydesdale have mentioned that Mr G had several opportunities to check the 
advisers information was accurate - including a follow up letter confirming the date of 
the meeting and the advisers recommendations. They felt that Mr G was given 
sufficient opportunity to check  the information  the adviser had recorded about him 
was correct - before  hed paid any premiums or incurred any costs. But I dont agree. 
Mr G was receiving  advice  from the same business that originally sold him his term 
assurance policy. I think it was reasonable, on this occasion, for him to believe  it 
would be able to tell him what he needed. 
difference in life assurance amounts
Mr G also said he was concerned that the life assurance amount and term differed 
from his actual mortgages. But at the point in time the policy was produced, it 
wouldve reflected  the current  mortgage  balance  when Mr Gs policy  actually 
started it wouldnt  have changed  to reflect any payments that might have been made. 
 
Ive also seen that the documentation Mr G was given states that both mortgages 
were on a repayment basis. However,  Mr G said his investment mortgage  was on an 
interest-only basis - which  has been confirmed by Clydesdale.  So I dont think the 
advisers recommendation  was suitable  for Mr Gs needs at the time. 
cancellation rights
Its not in dispute  that Mr G had the opportunity to cancel the policy, like all insurance 
policies. But the cover Mr G needed was a level term assurance to cover the interest 
only mortgage on the investment property. However,  as the premiums on this type of 
policy are normally more  expensive, its unclear  if Mr G wouldve chosen to accept  
the policy at the time. And as it wouldnt be right to assume Mr G wouldve taken it 
out, the fairest way to resolve the complaint  is for Clydesdale to refund Mr G the 
premiums that hes paid.  
After considering additional points  from both Mr G and Clydesdale I issued a second 
provisional decision in which  I said:
Ref: DRN00684763 
Mr G argues that Clydesdale should cover his current  life assurance shortfall of 
roughly £14,000  as this had been caused by the incorrect advice he was given by 
them  and I agree. I acknowledge that Clydesdale feel that Mr G has caused  this 
shortfall by cancelling one of the policies, however he wouldnt have needed to do 
this had their recommendation been correct  at the outset.  
Clydesdale agreed  in part with my first provisional decision. They said that they didnt 
have the ability to arrange life assurance  cover  for Mr G but they had obtained some 
generic quotes  using  the outstanding balances and terms.  They felt that based on 
these quotes,  the difference  in premiums meant that Mr G would have to pay an 
extra £290  roughly. They said they were willing to increase this to £400 which they 
felt was fair to resolve the complaint. But I dont  agree. Mr G has said that he suffers 
from health issues which might affect  his premiums. So I think  that regardless of how 
Mr G gets life cover for the shortfall,  Clydesdale needs to ensure that he is covered. 
This is because he would have been covered had Clydesdale provided suitable 
advice at the outset.
I think Clydesdale should cover Mr Gs life for the shortfall of around  £14,000 for the 
remainder of the mortgage term. If Clydesdale is able to find a specific  policy that 
may be more cost effective for it, to provide this cover then Im happy  to consider this 
prior to issuing my final decision. But Mr G needs  to be put back  in the position he 
wouldve been in had he received suitable  advice - therefore this shortfall  needs  to be 
covered. Similarly, if Mr G finds and takes out suitable cover in the meantime, then Ill 
be asking Clydesdale  to cover this cost. 
I said in my provisional decision that I thought  Clydesdale should refund the 
premiums from the £307,803 policy,  as that was the one that had been  
recommended incorrectly   and I still feel this is the case. However,  as Mr G 
cancelled the original £250,000 policy in 2017,  he should only be refunded the 
premiums to the date of this cancellation  because from this date the duplication  of 
cover ended. 
I recognise that Mr G has been  caused  distress because hes had the worry of being 
under insured by roughly  £14,000  and the fear his family may have to cover this. He 
also now has the inconvenience of looking for an insurer to cover this shortfall  
which may also take more  time as hes told us he has ongoing health conditions.  So I 
feel that Clydesdale should pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused from being given the incorrect advice at the outset.   
I invited Mr G and Clydesdale to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Clydesdale accepted  my provisional 
decision in part. They agreed to refund Mr G the £307,803 policy  premiums,  and they also 
agreed to cover the cost of premiums  for a replacement policy  for each mortgage.  But they 
didnt agree they should have to cover any shortfall whilst this was being arranged. 
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision and said hed approach  another  insurer  to try and get 
suitable cover. However, Mr G has now provided  evidence to show hes unable  to get 
replacement cover. 
Ref: DRN00684764my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  for the same reasons.
Clydesdale havent  given me any information  thats  materially different to what Id already 
seen. But Ive carefully considered their points and the update from Mr G about replacement  
cover.
Clydesdale felt that because Mr G cancelled one of the policies he caused  himself to 
become under-insured so they shouldnt be held responsible for this. But I dont agree. Mr G 
was advised by Clydesdale to take out a new policy on the recommendation it would be 
sufficient to cover both his mortgages. And I think that it was reasonable for him to rely on 
this advice for the reasons Ive mentioned above.  Mr G said he only cancelled one of the 
policies as he believed  he was over-insured  and I have no reason to doubt this was the 
case. 
Since my provisional decision was issued, its been  confirmed that the shortfall  isnt exactly  
£14,000 but will continue  to increase in value by the same amount that Mr Gs decreasing 
term policy reduces. I recognise Clydesdales reluctance to cover any shortfall  in life cover 
should something happen to Mr G. However, Mr G was put in this position  because he 
received unsuitable advice from Clydesdale.  So I think they should be responsible  for putting 
him in the correct  position he wouldve been had that not happened. As Mr G is unable  to 
obtain alternative insurance,  Clydesdale will need to cover any shortfall until the end of both 
Mr Gs mortgage terms which are currently  three  and a half years approximately.
putting things  right
Im pleased to see that Clydesdale  have  already paid Mr G the difference  in premiums  I 
proposed in my provisional decision.  However, as Ive reached the same conclusion as I did 
in my provisional decision,  Clydesdale Bank  Plc must now do the following:
Cover Mr Gs full life assurance shortfall  for the remainder of his mortgage terms  
approximately three and a half years; to do this Clydesdale must provide a written 
undertaking that in the event  of a successful claim it will pay Mr Gs estate an amount 
equivalent to the mortgage balances that remain outstanding once the claim amounts 
have been applied.
Pay Mr G £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN00684765my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale  Bank Plc must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0068476