K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about the total loss settlement esure Insurance Limited paid for her 
car when  she made a claim  under her car insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs P made a claim to her insurer and in October 2018, it paid her a total loss settlement for 
her car. 
Mrs P didnt think the valuation esure paid was enough. She believed it hadnt considered 
the second hand value  of extras included in the model of her car. 
esure said its engineer  had reached a valuation  for Mrs Ps car reasonably and in line with 
the policy. 
In October  2018 Mrs P asked us to look at her complaint. In November 2018  Mrs P said she 
wanted to buy her car back from esure  and for it to repair it. 
Our investigator checked the motor trade guides   and included all of the extras  Mrs P said 
her car had  but this didnt  make  a difference. Mrs Ps was car was over eleven years  old 
and so the motor  trade guides  didnt  provide  a value for the extras.  The investigator saw that 
Mrs P didnt ask esure about the salvage of her car until six weeks after it had settled her 
claim. By then Mrs Ps car had been  collected  by a salvage agent.
So the investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ps complaint  should  be upheld.  
Mrs P didnt agree. She believes esure has provided photos of wheels  that belong  to a 
different car. And she says she cant buy a similar car on the open market  for the settlement  
esure has paid her. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
We dont decide  a market value for a car. We look at whether an insurer has reached its 
valuation reasonably  and in line with the policy. 
Mrs Ps policy with esure says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market  value 
of her car at the time of loss. It says it uses the main motor trade guides to reach a valuation 
for the same make, model, age, mileage  and condition  as Mrs Ps car. 
We find the main motor trade guides more reliable  than adverts as they can vary widely  and 
tend to be a starting  point  to negotiate a price downward. The trade guides are based on 
likely selling prices.
Mrs P and esure disagree as to what extras were attached  to her car. esure says some  of 
the extras Mrs P mentioned were on her car  but not all. 
Ref: DRN00814372I know how strongly Mrs P feels about  this particular point.  Shes provided documents which  
she says show the full specification of her car. 
Our investigator checked the motor trade guides  and included all of the extras Mrs P 
mentioned. But  even if there was no dispute  none of the guides gave a second  hand 
value for the extras. 
So even though Mrs P believes esure hasnt taken into account the extras  attached to her 
car, when  weve  checked to see if it would make a difference, weve  found  that it didnt. And 
while I understand Mrs P says she cant find a similar car on the open market for the 
settlement esure paid her, there  isnt enough to persuade me that the valuation esure paid 
Mrs P should be more. 
The main  motor trade guides provided  valuations that ranged between £1,870 and £2,250.  
As esures  valuation for Mrs Ps car was £2,050, this was the average of the guides.  
I realise Mrs P will be very disappointed with my decision. But based  on what Ive seen, I 
think esure decided  a market value for Mrs Ps car in a fair and reasonable way. So Im not 
asking it to do anymore.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0081437