K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited (Lloyds) has 
declined their insurance claim for storm damage  to their roof.
background
Mr and Mrs S contacted Lloyds after they noticed  water damage to their home  which they 
believed came in through  the roof. As a high level of rainfall had been recorded the night 
before, Lloyds sent out a surveyor  to inspect the damage. 
The surveyor noted that the felt on the flat roof was tired and worn in various  parts. And he 
said there were cracks and bubbling  to the surface which is consistent with wear  and tear 
failure and this allowed the water  to penetrate. 
Lloyds initially declined  the claim in full on the basis the damage was caused  by wear and 
tear. But it subsequently  agreed to consider the claim  for the internal damage as it said this 
was caused by a single  event of storm. It offered £25 in compensation for refusing this part 
of the claim incorrectly. Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs S brought  a complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the matter but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She said that whilst  there were storm conditions, the photos  taken  by the surveyor didnt 
show damage to the roof which is typical of storm damage.  She found that there appeared to 
be a significant  amount  of wear and tear to Mr and Mrs Ss roof and so thought  it was likely 
the roof had reached the natural  end of its use. She also found  Lloyds offer of compensation 
for initially refusing  the claim for internal  damage reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigator. They said that the internal damage would not 
have happened  unless the roof had been  damaged at the same  time. So, they felt the roof 
damage should also be accepted as storm damage  as there hadnt been  any leaks prior to 
this event. As no agreement could  be made,  the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I need to decide is whether Lloyds is entitled to decline Mr and Mrs Ss claim 
under the policy  and that its decision to do so is fair and reasonable.
When considering  a storm complaint, this service generally takes  into consideration the 
following questions:
has it been proven  on balance,  there were storm conditions on or around the date the 
problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with damage caused by storms?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
Ref: DRN01399332If the answer  to all these  questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed.  But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no then the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
Lloyds looked  into the weather conditions at the time of the damage  and concluded that 
there was a storm, due to the heavy rainfall. As neither party is disputing this point,  Im 
satisfied that there were  storm  conditions at the time of the incident.
Mr and Mrs Ss property  has a flat felt roof. The surveyor took photos of the roof using a 
camera on an extended pole. He noted that the photos show  damage which is consistent 
with wear and tear issues and age, rather than what would be caused by a storm. Whilst not 
of the best quality, the pictures do show bubbling and wrinkling to the surface  of the felt. And 
I can see what appears to be additional  felt patches which suggests there may have been 
previous repairs at some point. Im also aware that Mr S told Lloyds that it is likely to have 
been at least ten years  since  the roof was replaced.
Ive thought about this carefully,  but Im not satisfied that these photos show  damage which 
would usually be caused by a storm. When we think of storm damage,  we would normally  
expect to see evidence  of the felt lifting or some  other form of movement. And a well-
maintained roof wouldnt normally be affected  by heavy rainfall.  Generally,  this service 
places more weight  on the opinion of experts, and I havent seen or been told anything which 
leads me to doubt the conclusions of the surveyor. 
Therefore, Im persuaded that the damage  to the roof wasnt caused by the storm but rather 
it merely highlighted an existing wear and tear problem that had developed over time. So, for 
that reason Im satisfied Lloyds fairly declined the claim for the external damage.
Lloyds has, however, agreed to consider the internal damage to the property.  Mr and Mrs S 
say the internal damage wouldnt have happened  unless  the roof was damaged at the same 
time - so they think the whole  claim should  be considered. I do appreciate their comments  on 
this matter but Im afraid I dont agree. The cause of the internal  damage was water entering  
the property following storm  conditions  in this case heavy rainfall   which  was a one-off 
storm event. However, as I mentioned previously, the evidence  provided indicates the 
damage to the roof was already in existence before the heavy rainfall  and it was this pre-
existing damage  that allowed the water to penetrate the building. Therefore, Im not satisfied 
that the damage to the roof was caused by the storm. So, Lloyds doesnt have to consider 
this aspect of the claim.
Im aware that Lloyds  initially  declined the claim in its entirety but, following the complaint, it 
agreed to consider the claim for the internal damage  only.  In recognition of this error it 
offered £25 in compensation.  From  reviewing the information, it appears the time frame 
between refusing the whole claim to agreeing to consider the internal damage  was relatively 
short. So, I find that this offer is reasonable.
Ref: DRN01399333my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but for the reasons Ive stated above,  I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0139933