K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs J bought the policy in 2004 at the same as taking out a credit card. She applied for the 
credit card and PPI policy in branch. 
At the time,  Mrs J was employed  as a typist. She has told us she was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  her credit card should she be unable to 
work. Mrs J has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, critical illness, carer cover, accident, sickness, and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Js 
credit card balance in the event of a successful  claim  for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. And for claims  under the life, critical illness  or carer  cover sections, it would 
repay the outstanding balance on the credit  card. At the time, it cost 78p per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding  balance.  The premium  would continue to have to be paid during  a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in February 
2008.
Mrs Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Js representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs J wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Js 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs J about  the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs J and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mrs J received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN00071292Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in February  2008. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN00071293The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Js 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out in DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Js complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs J sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs J suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs J and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs J know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ref: DRN00071294Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form which was completed during the meeting 
Mrs J had in branch and a printed  cross has been  placed in the box next to the credit  card 
repayment insurance  the name  used  by Halifax for PPI. Whilst the cross  has been printed 
on the form,  I think its likely this answer would have reflected the conversation  she had with 
Halifax in the meeting.  Mrs J has signed and dated the form which  suggests  she agreed with 
everything that had been entered. Ive noted that another box for a different product  has 
been left blank which would indicate that Mrs J made a choice not to take out that product 
but decided to take out the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs J knew  the policy was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mrs J agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs J with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs J. It seems Mrs J cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mrs Js 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mrs J would have been caught  by the significant  exclusions and limitations  
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example,  there  is 
nothing to suggest Halifax considered whether Mrs J had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Halifax did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs J given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs J, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs J met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs J had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Js ability  to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs J.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs J. There was 
nothing about  Mrs Js employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult 
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim.
Ref: DRN00071295-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mrs Js 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs J sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs J was given  a very broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs J would have  been told this  at the very least  during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs J would have taken out the policy without  
any sense of what the policy was. The application  form she signed also described the policy  
as Credit Card Repayments  Cover,  which would have given her some idea of what the 
policy was for.
Im also satisfied Mrs J would have realised the policy wasnt  free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs J 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information was in a leaflet or policy summary 
Mrs J might have  been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision  on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs J Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs J. Im not persuaded that Halifax  gave Mrs J all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out in DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Js representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Js. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Js representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN00071296-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs J about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs J has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs J? To what extent did Mrs J suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs J. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs J suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs J would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Halifax took the steps it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs J, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs J has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs J would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs J says she would not have taken it out and believes  that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs J had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Js circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs J ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
Ref: DRN00071297But, I accept that Halifax didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs J 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs J thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions, injuries, illnesses, 
diseases, sickness or related conditions and associated symptoms that Mrs J knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy or had seen or 
arranged to see a doctor  during  the 12 months  prior to the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs J 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs J be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs J pause for thought   and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs J from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Js circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs J didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs J might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs J 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs J, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mrs J had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar job which in the insurers view her experience, education and training would 
allow her to do, it might have played  into her thinking about what  she would have done. And 
I accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs J was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
 
Ref: DRN00071298Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs J would  still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and she didnt have any means of meeting her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, she thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mrs Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs J would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs J 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs J in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs J compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs J thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs J, in the way it 
Ref: DRN00071299did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs J and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs J in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0007129