K821x#15complaint
Mr G says S.D. Taylor Limited trading  as Loans at Home (LAH) lent to him irresponsibly. 
He says the interest was too high and he couldnt afford to make the loan repayments. 
background
This complaint is about eight home collected  credit  loans  LAH provided to Mr G between  
July 2016 and January 2019. Ive included a table that shows  some of the information that 
LAH as provided about this lending. 
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm  
(weeks)date ended
1 27/07/2016 £300 20 08/02/2017
2 08/02/2017 £300 20 19/07/2017
3 28/06/2017 £250 25 09/05/2018
4 19/07/2017 £300 20 27/12/2017
5 06/12/2017 £400 40 09/01/2019
6 27/12/2017 £300 30 22/08/2018
7 02/05/2018 £250 17 09/01/2019
8 09/01/2019 £750 25 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that LAH wasnt wrong to have 
approved loans 1 to 4. But it shouldnt have approved loans 5 to 8. 
LAH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that:
the adjudication was cursory and confused home collected credit with short  term 
lending;
the lending  wasnt unsustainable, and Mr G had a good repayment history; 
there wasnt any evidence that Mr G was persistently reliant on home collected credit 
and relatively long term use of this product  is widespread.  Mr G did not have a great  
deal of other lending when he borrowed from LAH.
So, as no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
Ref: DRN08739532These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Mr G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement  about  these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing  relationship Mr G had with LAH.  So 
they are something  I will take into account  when considering the other loans  he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 5 to 8 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LAHs  lending 
history with Mr G, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which  LAH should  reasonably  
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so LAH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Gs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
at this point LAH ought to have realised Mr G was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr G had been indebted to LAH for around a year and half. So LAH 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr G was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that his 
indebtedness was unsustainable without further  borrowing;
Ref: DRN08739533Mr Gs first loan was for £300 and loan 5 was for £300. At this point LAH ought to 
have known that Mr G was likely borrowing to meet an ongoing need. And Mr G 
typically used the proceeds on the new loan to repay the remainder of the loan he 
had;
and Mr G wasnt making  any real inroads to the amount he owed LAH. Loan 8 was 
taken out over two and a half years after Mr Gs first. And it was for a larger amount.  
Mr G had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LAH over an 
extended period;
LAH says this pattern  of borrowing can be typical in this type of lending. But this 
doesnt mean its right. And I think this is a long time to use any form of high cost 
credit but particularly where  the consumer seems  unable to reduce  the outstanding 
balance at all. I think this shows Mr G was struggling financially even if he didnt have 
significant other lending. 
I think that Mr G lost out because LAH continued  to provide borrowing from loan 5 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which Mr G borrowed was likely  to have had negative 
implications on Mr Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 5 to 8 and LAH should put things right.
putting things right  what LAH needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 5 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 5 to 8 should be removed from 
Mr Gs credit file.
If Mr G still owes LAH any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan, instead of 
the above for this loan, LAH should remove all the interest and charges applied  to the 
outstanding balance. LAH should then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Mr G 
went to towards the principal. But importantly, LAH needs to make sure that Mr G doesnt 
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr G hasnt repaid  the principal he borrowed LAH can deduct this from the 
remainder of the compensation. If, Mr G has already paid enough to repay the principal  then 
any overpayment should be refunded  to him with 8% simple* interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if LAH no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr G.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must  give Mr G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN08739534my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Gs complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things  right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0873953