K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  has reported adverse  
information about him to CIFAS, the UKs fraud  alert service.
background
Halifax received a report from a different financial business stating that fraudulently  obtained 
funds of £773 had been paid into an account it operated  for Mr O. The money  was credited 
on 6 November 2017. A transfer of £780  was then made by mobile banking from that 
account to another one of Mr Os accounts with Halifax. There were two cash  withdrawals of 
£300 from this other account  one on 6 November 2017 at 21:02  and the other on 7 
November 2017  at 02:51. A transfer  of £100  was also made from the account to a credit 
card held in Mr Os name on 15 November 2017. 
Halifax spoke to Mr O about  the payments on 23 November 2017.  Mr O told Halifax that he 
still had the card used  to make the withdrawals.  And that he hadnt told anyone his PIN but 
that it was in the notes section on his phone which nobody should  be able to access. He 
said hed allowed someone  to use his account in the past. Halifax  considered  the payments 
had been made by him and told him it was going  to close the account  in 60 days. Halifax 
reported to CIFAS that Mr O had used fraudulently obtained funds. 
Mr O spoke to Halifax  about  this again  twice  on 24 August 2018 as the CIFAS marker was 
affecting his ability to get a job. It considered Mr O had given different information then about  
whether he had the card used to make  the withdrawals or not and where  his PIN was stored. 
Halifax still maintained  that the CIFAS  marker was correct. But it later agreed that in error it 
hadnt closed  his account and it refunded  all the subsequent charges and paid Mr O £112 in 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint about the CIFAS marker be upheld. He 
said that:
-Halifax had shown  that the only device  used to access Mr Os account through  
mobile banking  had been registered  to the account on 13 July 2017.  
-To register  it wouldve  required  a text to be sent to the number Halifax held for Mr O. 
This was the number  hed used to call it on in August  2018  about his complaint and 
the one this service  had for him.
-His account had been accessed  by mobile banking in October  2017  using  a 
fingerprint and Mr O hadnt queried  the related payments then made. On 6 November 
2017 his account was also accessed online by using  a fingerprint. 
-Mr O hadnt been  able to provide any evidence to show  hed lost his phone as he 
claimed or that hed transferred his old number to a new phone.
-Mr O now said that it was years since he allowed an international student to use his 
account and that person was no longer in this country. 
-Two balance enquiries were  made  about five minutes before the first cash 
withdrawal. That withdrawal was then made at a different cash machine about 0.6 
miles away. So it was possible that someone  had seen Mr O using his card and PIN 
and taken his card. However, the card had also been used to make  a payment to a 
retailer just before the second cash withdrawal. He hadnt  disputed that and there 
was no explanation of how his card was returned  to him. His credit card had also 
been used on 7 November 2017 at a location less than 1.5 miles from the cash  
machines used that day.
Ref: DRN03213272-Mr O said that he still had his debit card when he spoke to Halifax about these 
payments on 23 November 2017.
-He was satisfied  that Mr O had most likely consented to the payments and that they 
were authorised by him.
-He considered that the CIFAS marker was fairly  registered as fraudulent funds  had 
been received  into Mr Os account  and then used by him. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said he wasnt a high risk customer and the CIFAS marker had a great 
impact on his ability to find employment. He didnt  accept that hed given inconsistent 
information about what happened. In his view,  Halifax in sending him a cheque,  had 
admitted negligence on its behalf. Mr O said he had done everything he could to get 
evidence that he had changed  his phone and moved  his number across. He did not think 
that this service had been fair and unbiased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2009. And to think about 
whether Mr O authorised  the payments from his account. Thats  more  than the payments 
being authenticated but would require him to consent to them.  If he didnt  authorise  them  
then generally  Halifax  wouldnt  be able to hold him responsible for them. I also need  to 
consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Halifax needs  to have 
more than a suspicion  or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe that a 
fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the evidence would 
support this being reported to the authorities. 
I need to make clear  that I dont consider that the error Halifax  accepts it made by not 
closing Mr Os account at that time as it said it would do has any bearing  on the substance  of 
this complaint about the CIFAS marker. And I find I come to the same  conclusions about this 
as our investigator and for the same reasons but Ill explain what  I think about the evidence.
There is no dispute here that the funds (£773.00) paid into the account werent for Mr O and 
had been reported by another financial  business  as fraudulent.
Im satisfied based on the evidence provided that the related transfer was authenticated  
using Mr Os mobile banking and the withdrawals  made when the chip on the genuine card 
was read and the correct PIN entered. The question I need to consider is the most likely 
explanation of how these funds were  transferred to another account and then withdrawn. 
And whether Mr O consented to that or whether as he maintains an unknown third party  
made them without  his knowledge  or authority.
One key element to consider is the transfer between his accounts. I know Mr O says that his 
phone was lost. And that someone was able to use this phone  and register it for online 
banking when it still had his number. To register it for biometric  log in using a fingerprint 
Halifax say wouldve required Mr Os security information. Theres  no explanation how a third 
party wouldve  been  able to access that. As our investigator has said there were apparently 
genuine payments  using  mobile banking in October 2017. And I also dont think its likely that 
someone with free access to Mr Os account wouldve waited until November 2017  before 
trying to take money from his account.
Ref: DRN03213273The other key element  is the use of Mr Os card and PIN. Ive listened to the call he had with 
Halifax on 23 November 2017.  He very clearly  states he still had the card for the account the 
withdrawals were made from. And he was asked to look at the card then in his possession  
and read out the last four digits of the number which he did correctly. So I find that 
compelling evidence  he still had his card at that time.
But Mr O has given different explanations  about his PIN and who had access to this. When 
he spoke to Halifax in November 2017 he said someone else had been  using his account. 
He now says that person wasnt using his account by November 2017.  He said he had his 
PIN stored on his phone in November 2017  and by August 2018 that hed written it down on 
a piece of paper. The relevance of this is whether  an unknown third party  couldve both 
found out his PIN and got access  to his card. Im struggling to see how this wouldve been 
possible.
To find that an unknown  third party acting without Mr Os authority was able to make  the 
transfer and these payments Id need to think all of the following were  most likely:
-That person  was able to access his mobile banking account  and decided  not to use it 
to make fraudulent  payments for several months but first make  genuine payments for 
Mr O.
-That person  was also able to get free access to Mr Os card on the day the fraudulent 
payment was made to his account. And somehow also to have discovered his PIN. 
-That person  was able to return the card to him without him knowing  it had been  used.
-By coincidence Mr O was using his credit card in a location close to where the 
disputed cash withdrawals were  made  on the same date.
These are not all findings that Im able to make based on the available evidence.  I consider 
he consented to these payments as he most likely  made them  himself.
CIFAS marker  
Halifax says that it applied the CIFAS marker because  Mr O received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So Ive looked at whether  Halifax was fair to apply the marker,  based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation  it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard   of proof  set by CIFAS. This 
essentially says that Halifax  needs to have  enough information to make a formal   report  to 
the police. And that any filing should  be for cases  where there are reasonable grounds  to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed,  rather than mere suspicion.  
Having reviewed Mr Os account  of events and the evidence Halifax  has provided, Im 
satisfied that Halifax  had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker  to be recorded.  In coming 
to this view, Ive taken  into account the following reasons:
-Mr O received fraudulent funds  into his account  and didnt report this to Halifax at the 
time.
-He transferred the money to a different account. He withdrew most of the funds and 
used part of them to pay his credit card. So that he had  benefit of this money.
-Halifax had grounds to believe that Mr O had used fraudulently obtained funds  based  
on the evidence  it had.
I appreciate that this will be a great disappointment to Mr O as the marker is having  a 
detrimental effect on him. But given what Ive said above, I dont think Halifax  has treated 
Ref: DRN03213274him unfairly  in respect of the disputed transactions and recording the CIFAS marker. So I 
wont be asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0321327