K821x#15complaint
Miss M says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Mr Lender provided Miss M with eleven  loans between  October  2012  and January  2015. 
Miss Ms lending history is detailed below:
An adjudicator reviewed Miss Ms case and thought that loans five and six shouldnt have 
bene given to Miss M as she was having  issues managing her finances. The adjudicator 
also thought loans seven to eleven  shouldnt have been given as Miss Ms borrowing history 
indicated she had become reliant  on short term lending. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators review. It says it carried out proportionate  
checks on Miss M and that the information  it had did not indicate  Miss M was having 
financial issues or becoming reliant  on short  term loans. Mr Lender did however make an 
offer on loans eight  to eleven. This offer was outlined to Miss M, but she chose not to 
accept it.
As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain
factors might  point  to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
Ref: DRN08431292refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow his
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.  I dont think Miss M shouldve  been
given loans five onwards  and Ill explain why.
Mr Lender says it carried out checks on Miss M when she applied for loans five and six. This 
included obtaining  details of her income  and expenditure.  Mr Lender says based on this 
information the loan was affordable and appropriate  for Miss M. I can see Miss M had taken 
out four previous loans  with Mr Lender  when she applied for loan five. These  loans had all 
been taken out in quick succession  and subsequent  loans were  often taken  as soon as the 
previous loan had been  settled. I can also see that Miss M had experienced difficulties in 
repaying loans  three  and four  Miss M made multiple deferrals on her repayments.  I think 
this alongside  the number  of loans Miss M had taken out in quick  succession indicated  that 
she was having  issues managing her finances and Mr Lender  ought to have been building 
up a clearer picture of her situation. 
Mr Lender says that the checks it carried out were based on the information  Miss M provided 
and the loans were  affordable. Although loans five and six may have seemed appropriate 
based on a strict pounds  to pence calculation, Miss Ms overall circumstances indicated that 
she was relying on short  term credit to cover  ongoing shortfalls. So I dont think lending  was 
appropriate as she was not able to sustainably repay the loans. Which means Mr Lender  
shouldnt have given  Miss M loans  five and six. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Miss M with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ms case, I think  that this point was reached by
loan seven. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender  ought  to have realised  Miss M was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss M had taken  out seven loans in around seven months.  
Ref: DRN08431293Miss M also had issues repaying some  of her previous loans. And Miss Ms loans 
were often taken out days or weeks within a previous loan being paid. So Mr Lender 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Miss M was having to borrow  
further to cover the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Ms indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Miss Ms first loan was for £175 and her subsequent loans  varied in amount
considerably. But most  importantly there  didnt seem  to be a downward  trend  in the
amount Miss M was borrowing and loan seven was for £600.  At this point Mr Lender 
ought to have known that Miss M was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet  an ongoing need.
Miss M wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Mr Lender. Loan  
seven was taken  out around seven months  after Miss Ms first and her final loan was 
taken out almost thirteen months  after her first. Miss M had paid large amounts  of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think that Miss M lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing  from loan 
seven onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss M borrowed was likely to
have had negative  implications on Miss Ms ability to access  mainstream  credit  and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans five to eleven and Mr Lender  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
PDL Finance  Limited shouldnt have given Miss M loans five to eleven.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding  debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then it should  
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
 
A)Mr Lender  should  add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  Mr Lender  has already  refunded. 
B)Mr Lender  should  calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C)Mr Lender  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Miss M as though  they 
had been repayments  of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Miss 
M having  made overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments  
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender 
should then refund  the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
Ref: DRN08431294D)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Miss M. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Mr Lender  should  try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss M. 
E)Mr Lender  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded on Miss Ms credit  
file in relation  to loans five and six. The overall  pattern of Miss Ms borrowing for 
loans seven to eleven means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Mr 
Lender should remove these loans entirely  from Miss Ms credit file. If Mr Lender  has 
sold any of the loans it should  ask the debt purchaser to do the same. Mr Lender  do 
not have to remove any outstanding loans from Miss Ms credit file until these have 
been repaid, but it should still remove any adverse information  recorded about these 
loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Mr Lender should  give Miss M 
a certificate showing how much tax youve  deducted,  if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Ms complaint. PDL Finance Limited should 
put things right for Miss M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision
before 15 May 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0843129