K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T had an interest-only mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company  Limited  
which they were due to pay off in October 2013. Theyve complained  that Kensington didnt 
communicate properly  with them about  the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs T paid off their mortgage in July 2018. They  told us they want:
-£500 for the way Mr T was treated on the phone and for not receiving return calls;  
and
-£16,000 for Kensingtons negligence.
background
In 2005, Mr and Mrs T took out an interest only mortgage with Kensington. The mortgage 
offer was for £100,499 over an 8 year term. 
Section 6 of the mortgage offer said:
The mortgage payments cover  interest only and not the repayment of the capital borrowed. 
You have  told us that the repayment vehicle you intend to use to repay the capital  is 
investments. You will need to put suitable arrangements in place to repay the capital. It is 
important to regularly  check  whether  the performance of any investment used as a 
repayment vehicle  is likely  to be adequate  to repay  the capital at the end of the term.
In October  2013, the mortgage  term ended. Mr and Mrs T told Kensington they couldnt 
repay the capital.  They  said they were trying to remortgage to another  lender and would pay 
£500 a month in the meantime. Kensington asked  for income and expenditure information, 
and medical evidence because Mrs T was disabled.
Mr and Mrs T sent in information,  and Kensington allowed Mr and Mrs T three months to find 
another lender. But in February 2014,  Mr and Mrs T told Kensington that they hadnt  been 
able to remortgage, because of their ages  and the outstanding  balance.  Mr and Mrs T 
suggested making a lump  sum payment of around £32,000 when Mr T would receive this 
from his pension pot the following year, plus £500  a month. In May 2014,  Kensington  told Mr 
and Mrs T that it would consider this, but that Mr and Mrs T would need to take independent 
financial advice about the feasibility of getting  a future remortgage. 
In May 2017, Kensington wrote to Mr and Mrs T saying theyd tried to get in touch on a 
number of occasions. Mr and Mrs T said this wasnt true, as Kensington had the correct  
phone details. They complained about  how their proposal had been dealt with. They also 
said they believed  their account  had been  changed to a repayment basis  in 2014.
On 6 July 2017,  Kensington  replied  that Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage hadnt been  changed  to a 
repayment basis in 2014. It set out a chronology of what  had happened  since  the mortgage 
term ended, and said that there hadnt  been any discussions about changing the basis of the 
mortgage to repayment.
Kensington wrote again on 25 August. The letter  said Kensington had realised its previous 
letter didnt address the concerns Mr and Mrs T had raised. Kensington said that although 
the mortgage terms had ended, Mr and Mrs T still had an obligation to repay the debt. And 
Kensington could  carry on charging  interest  and fees until Mr and Mrs T did repay it. 
Ref: DRN00436032Kensington set out what had happened since 2013,  and said it hadnt had a reply  to its May 
2014 letter  saying the company would consider Mr and Mrs Ts offer, but they had to get 
independent financial  advice about a remortgage.
When the 2017 complaint was ongoing, Mr and Mrs T spoke to Kensington and said theyd 
recently been told they could get a lifetime mortgage for £84,000. The balance  on their 
Kensington mortgage at the time was just over £100,000, and they wanted  the rest written 
off. In the 25 August letter, Kensington said it could consider this, but would need 
documentation confirming  Mr and Mrs Ts eligibility for a lifetime  mortgage.
Theres disagreement between Kensington and Mr and Mrs T about exactly what  happened 
when about this proposal. Kensington said it spoke to Mr T on 22 November 2017 and said it 
couldnt accept  it. Mr and Mrs Ts chronology said that Kensington told him in October that it 
wouldnt be accepted,  which  contradicted  the lenders 25 August letter. Mr T later told this 
service that it was June  2018 before Kensington turned down this proposal. Whatever 
happened, Kensington didnt write to confirm its rejection  of the proposal  in autumn 2017. On 
22 November 2017, Mr and Mrs T complained to Kensington. 
In its final response in June 2018,  Kensington said that it had told Mr and Mrs T on 22 
November 2017  that it wouldnt accept £84,000  in settlement of the mortgage debt of around 
£100,000. But it apologised  for not having sent a letter  to confirm this. Kensington also set 
out the chronology since 2013 and said Mr and Mrs T hadnt replied to its May 2014 letter 
where Kensington had said it would consider their proposal but theyd have to take 
independent financial  advice about a remortgage.  
Kensington also said it had sent regular statements, so it wasnt accurate  that it hadnt  
contacted Mr and Mrs T. And it explained that monthly  interest was still being charged after 
the end of the mortgage term, which was why the balance hadnt  reduced even though  Mr 
and Mrs T had continued to make  monthly  payments.
But Kensington apologised for the service  Mr and Mrs T had received. It accepted  it didnt 
confirm in writing to Mr and Mrs T in November  2017, or January 2018, that their proposal 
wasnt acceptable. And it agreed it hadnt  always rung back  when it had said it would. So it 
offered Mr and Mrs T £500  compensation  for the upset and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied and complained to this service. They complained  that 
Kensington hadnt communicated  efficiently, and hadnt returned calls when it had promised 
to do so. Mr and Mrs T said that if Kensington had refused  their offer in October  2017,  theyd  
have paid off the whole balance of around £101,000. They  said Kensington hadnt turned the 
offer down until May 2018, and theyd  then paid off the mortgage in July. So they said that 
theyd made  six months of payments which  they neednt have done  if Kensington had turned 
down their offer promptly in October  2017.
Mr and Mrs T wanted £500 for the way Mr T was treated on the phone and for not receiving 
return calls, and £16,000 for Kensingtons negligence.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint:
-He said there was no evidence that the mortgage had ever been changed to a 
repayment basis.  
-In regard to the 2014 proposal, the adjudicator pointed  out some  contradictions  in Mr 
and Mrs Ts timeline  and correspondence. He thought that Mr and Mrs T had 
received Kensingtons May 2014  letter saying theyd need to seek  independent 
Ref: DRN00436033financial advice  and that, as theyd  said in their timeline, they hadnt been able to 
get a remortgage. So the adjudicator didnt think that Kensingtons actions  had had a 
detrimental effect on Mr and Mrs T.
-In regard to the 2017 proposal, the adjudicator considered that Mr and Mrs T knew 
from the phone call on 22 November 2017  that Kensington hadnt accepted their 
proposal. He agreed that Kensingtons failure to put this in writing was poor service  
but hadnt led to any financial loss.
-The adjudicator  thought that Kensington had provided poor service  in various ways, 
such as not returning  calls, and not putting things in writing. But he considered  the 
£500 offered by Kensington  had been fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied. There was a more  correspondence between  them  and the 
adjudicator. Among other things, Mr and Mrs T asked Kensington for transcripts of every 
phone call theyd had since 2017. Kensington refused, saying the request was excessive, 
and fulfilling it would require disproportionate effort. 
Mr and Mrs T disputed  that Kensington had told them on 22 November 2017 that it rejected 
their proposal. The adjudicator sent them a copy of Kensingtons case  notes, but Mr and Mrs 
T said these werent true. They sent details of their recollection of calls. They said the 
conversation on 22 November had been  about the interest theyd been  charged since the 
mortgage term ended in 2013   and it was nothing to do with the offer theyd made.  They 
want compensation for the delay in responding to their proposal,  and said that this 
undoubtedly had caused them a loss. They  didnt  think the £500  compensation offered by 
Kensington was fair.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mrs T have raised  multiple points 
in their submissions to this service.  Ive understood and looked into all of those, but Ive 
commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
Ive seen no evidence  that Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage was changed from interest only to 
repayment. Certainly it wasnt changed  as a result of Mr and Mrs Ts April 2014 proposal  
which didnt get agreed  that in a years time, theyd  pay off around  £32,000  and continue  to 
pay £500 a month.  And if it had been  changed  from interest only to repayment, their monthly  
payments would have  gone up substantially  because theyd have been paying off some  
capital each month as well as the interest. Ive seen nothing that indicates their monthly 
payments went up on this scale.
When they took out the mortgage,  Mr and Mrs T signed up to paying off the mortgage in 
October 2013. They didnt do so, and Kensington did have the right to carry on charging  
interest, until they fulfilled  their obligation to pay off their mortgage debt. This was why the 
overall balance  stayed about  the same, and didnt reduce  even though Mr and Mrs T were 
making monthly payments. 
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs T received Kensingtons letter of May 2014 which 
rejected their proposal for paying off the mortgage.  I find that they did, because Mr and Mrs 
Ts timeline says so:
28/05/14 Kensington wrote to say that following my recent communication  I was required to 
seek independent financial advice about  the feasibility of a future  remortgage. I called 
Kensington and informed  them that I was unable to obtain mortgage  due to age.
Ref: DRN00436034I consider that Kensington should have written to tell Mr and Mrs T that it was rejecting its 
proposal. It would  have been  polite,  and efficient, to do so. But the fact that it only told them  
verbally doesnt change the fact that Mr and Mrs T knew  by that point that they needed 
another solution, in order to meet their obligation  to pay off their loan.
Ive gone on to look at the 2017  proposal.  Kensington again failed to put its rejection of Mr 
and Mrs Ts proposal in writing. But I find that it did notify them verbally that their proposal 
wasnt enough. The timeline which Mr and Mrs T sent to us said Mr T complained on 22 
November. Kensingtons system notes said that during the call it told Mr T that it wouldnt 
accept less than the outstanding balance. The notes record  that Mr T was unhappy and 
complained, and asked for the decision in writing.
In January 2019, Mr T told us that the 22 November 2017 conversation was that he asked 
why he had to pay interest, when  the mortgage had ended  in 2013. He said it had nothing to 
do with his proposal. 
Where evidence conflicts, I make my decision on what I thinks  most likely  to have 
happened. Here, I accept  that in the phone call on 22 November 2017, Kensington did tell 
Mr T that it wouldnt  take less than the full balance.  I dont accept  that that conversation was 
about why he had to carry on paying interest. Thats because that issue had already been 
dealt with. Kensington had already replied to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about  that on 25 
August 2017,  when  it had explained that it had the right to carry on charging  because Mr and 
Mrs T hadnt paid off their mortgage when they should have done.  
So I find that by 22 November, Mr and Mrs T knew that Kensington wasnt  prepared  to 
accept less than the full balance of around  £100,000. It wasnt  willing  to take around £84,000 
instead.
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs T sent us a paragraph which  they say was their email  chasing 
Kensington for a reply  about their proposal.  This isnt in the form of a dated email  and I 
havent seen any record of this on Kensingtons system notes.  So Im not persuaded that this 
proves that Kensington didnt refuse their proposal  on 22 November  2017.
Certainly, Kensington should have formalised its refusal in a letter  just as it failed to do with 
the 2014 proposal. But I dont find that Mr and Mrs T suffered a financial loss because of 
this, because I consider  they were notified verbally on 22 November. 
And even  if Kensington hadnt told them on 22 November, Mr and Mrs T would have had to 
prove financial loss. In other words, theyd have had to prove  that they would have  paid 
significantly less overall to any new lender, than they were  charged in interest by Kensington 
between November 2017 and when they did pay it off in July 2018. So I find that Mr and Mrs 
T didnt suffer any financial loss as a result  of Kensingtons actions  or decisions.
 
Mr and Mrs Ts interest only mortgage  term ended in October 2013. At that point they were 
obliged to pay back the capital  as set out in the mortgage offer.  Kensington didnt have to 
accept their proposals for a significant  reduction  in what  they owed. 
I do, however,  agree  with Mr and Mrs T that Kensingtons service wasnt good. It didnt 
return phone  calls.  It also didnt put its decisions in writing, either in respect of Mr and Mrs 
Ts 2014  proposal  or their 2017 proposal   even when Mr and Mrs T had specifically 
Ref: DRN00436035requested this. And the 25 August 2017 letter  acknowledged that it hadnt dealt with all of Mr 
and Mrs Ts complaint in its 6 July 2017 letter. All of this was poor service.   
So I find that some compensation for poor service is appropriate. I consider £500 would be 
fair and reasonable. This is what  Kensington offered  Mr and Mrs T before this service 
became involved.  Its not clear to me whether or not this has been paid, but if it hasnt, I 
leave it to Mr and Mrs T to approach Kensington to ask whether this is still available.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0043603