K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Miss L complain  about their mortgage  with NRAM Limited. Theyre  unhappy with 
the interest rate NRAM charges and they say it hasnt helped them move to a different 
lender or otherwise  help them. Theyre concerned about how they will repay the capital at 
the end of the term in a few years  time.
background
Mr P and Miss L took out their current mortgage  with Northern Rock in 2007.  They  took a 
two year fixed rate. In the meantime, Northern Rock collapsed, and Mr P and Miss Ls 
mortgage was transferred  to NRAM, the government-owned lender which took over most 
NRAM mortgages. 
In 2009, their fixed rate came to an end and Mr P and Miss Ls mortgage reverted to 
NRAMs standard variable  rate (SVR). Its remained on the SVR  more recently, with a 
0.25% discount   ever since. In 2009, the SVR was 4.79%. It stayed at that level until 2016  
since 2016, it has moved by the same amount, and at roughly the same time, as changes  in 
the Bank of England base  rate. In 2019,  the mortgage was transferred from NRAM to 
another firm.
Mr P and Miss L say that the interest  theyve been  charged is unfairly  high  both compared 
to base rate, and compared to the rates charged by other lenders. They say NRAM has 
refused to offer them a new interest rate, even though they believe it does make rates 
available to some  of its customers. Their mortgage is interest only, and they cant  afford to 
convert it to repayment over the same  term, but NRAM  wont  agree to a term extension.  And 
because their outstanding balance is almost  £1million,  they say theyve not been  able to find 
another lender either. They think that NRAM should  reduce  the interest rate, backdated to 
2009, and help them find another lender to take their mortgage. And they think the mortgage 
was mis-sold in the first place.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr P and Miss L asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the heart of this complaint is the interest rate applicable  to Mr P and Miss Ls 
mortgage. They took a fixed rate in 2007,  and no doubt expected that when it expired in 
2009 theyd be able to take another, either  from Northern Rock or by moving  to another 
lender. Thats a common expectation   and, indeed, its generally how the mortgage  market 
works.
However, the terms and conditions  of Mr P and Miss Ls mortgage merely say that when the 
product expired, their loan would revert  to the SVR. Northern Rock, and its successor 
NRAM, has no legal obligation  under  the mortgage contract to provide a new product. And 
theres nothing in the regulators  rules  that says NRAM   or any other  lender   has to 
provide new mortgage products either.
Ref: DRN06051212So while Mr P and Miss L no doubt  expected  they would be able to take a new product, they 
werent automatically entitled to one.
Unfortunately in this case, their original lender Northern Rock  collapsed shortly after the start 
of the fixed rate. It had to be bailed out and most of its mortgages were  transferred to NRAM. 
Following the nationalisation, NRAM didnt offer any new interest rate products to any of its 
borrowers. Existing fixed interest  rates continued until expiry,  but no new ones  were  offered 
to any customers. Im aware Mr P and Miss L believe NRAM does offer some  new rates to 
some customers. Im not sure why they think that, but its not correct.
Its typical in the mortgage  market that a fixed or tracker rate will expire,  and the mortgage 
then revert to the particular  lenders SVR. Each lender has its own SVR,  and most will offer 
new and existing borrowers new fixed and tracker rates too. The purpose of offering such 
rates is either to attract  new business, or retain  existing customers who might otherwise 
have moved lender.
Im aware that NRAM and its parent company  have  previously explained that there  are legal 
restrictions on the interest rates it charges; in short, competition law means that as a 
government-owned lender it cant compete against  the market.  It cant  therefore offer new 
fixed or tracker interest rates. And its SVR is fixed with reference  both to its costs and to the 
level of SVR rates charged by active mainstream  lenders.
Its very unfortunate  for Mr P and Miss L that their mortgage lender  collapsed and had to be 
bailed out. That this would  happen  couldnt  have been known at the time they took the 
mortgage out. But I dont think NRAM has treated them unfairly in not giving them  access to 
new interest rates. The same is true of all its other  customers, and its something NRAM 
cant do, rather than has chosen not to.
As a result, Mr P and Miss L have been on NRAMs SVR since  2009. The terms and 
conditions of the mortgage explain that the SVR is set by NRAM  it isnt pegged to any 
external benchmark,  such as the Bank of England base  rate. The base  rate isnt directly  
related to NRAMs costs,  though its one of the factors it can take into account in setting the 
SVR  and, in fact, since Mr P and Miss L moved  onto the SVR in 2009 it has only changed 
at the same  time, and by the same amount, as base  rate.
NRAMs SVR is broadly similar to the SVRs  of other  mortgage lenders  most lenders have 
SVRs in the range of roughly 4% to 6% - and so I dont think the level of the SVR is of itself 
unfair either.
The difficulty  here is that Mr P and Miss L havent  moved their mortgage to another lender, 
one which  does offer new lower interest  rates. They say that theyve  tried, but the size of 
their balance has been a problem. And moving to a repayment mortgage would make  it 
more difficult to satisfy a new lenders affordability  assessment. 
That is, again, very unfortunate. But I dont think I can fairly  hold NRAM responsible for the 
risk appetite and affordability criteria of other  lenders. NRAM itself isnt doing anything to 
stand in the way of Mr P and Miss L moving  elsewhere  theyre not subject to an early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  or any other barrier to exit. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority, has recently changed its rules. The rules  say 
that lenders have to apply a very strict and detailed affordability assessment when taking on 
Ref: DRN06051213new borrowers  and it seems Mr P and Miss L have  found it difficult  to pass  these tests. In 
late 2019, however,  it introduced a new rule. This new rule, known as the modified 
affordability assessment,  allows lenders to relax  these strict requirements  for applicants with 
an existing mortgage  where the new mortgage would be more  affordable  than the old one.
So it may be the case that using these rules Mr P and Miss L could move their mortgage 
elsewhere. Even if they still cant get a repayment  mortgage, an interest only mortgage at a 
lower interest rate would allow them to increase the amount of the overpayments theyre 
making each month, which would  help to reduce the balance faster.
NRAM does help its borrowers by giving them access to an independent  mortgage  broker  
free of charge, who can look at the whole of the market and see whether theres anything  
suitable available.  I think thats a fair thing to do to help its borrowers find another lender and 
Mr P and Miss L might  want  to take up the offer to see if any lender would consider an 
application from them under the new rules.
Overall, then, I do understand  Mr P and Miss Ls frustration. Theyre  paying a relatively  high 
interest rate and have had difficulty in the past moving to another  lender to access a lower 
rate. I can understand why they feel their situation is unfair. But I dont think NRAM is 
responsible for that or has treated  them unfairly   its treated them the same  as all its 
customers, and in line with the restrictions it operates  under. And while it cant influence  the 
decisions other lenders  might make, it has offered  to make independent advice available to 
help them move if possible. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Turning to the other things Mr P and Miss L have complained about, I dont think  Northern  
Rock mis-sold the mortgage, since it was sold by a broker not by Northern Rock  itself. And 
Northern Rock took into account their finances  and the value of their property  in deciding 
whether it was responsible to lend as much as it did.
Finally, Mr P and Miss L are  rightly,  and responsibly  concerned  about  how they are going 
to repay  the capital  at the end of the term in a few years time. Miss L spoke  to NRAM about 
this in 2017, and it said at that point it would consider  converting  the mortgage  to repayment. 
But that would make the monthly payments very high unless the term was extended too, and 
it wasnt willing to do that if Mr P and Miss L had the option of moving  their mortgage 
elsewhere instead. Miss L said she wanted to consider  their options and discuss them with 
Mr P.
If Mr P and Miss L take up NRAMs offer of independent mortgage advice, the adviser  will be 
able to explore  their options around repaying  the mortgage too. And if its not possible to 
move elsewhere, they will then need to discuss with their new lender what  options it has to 
assist. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think NRAM Limited  has made a fair and reasonable offer to 
settle this complaint by referring  Mr P and Miss L to independent mortgage advice at no cost 
to them.  I leave it to Mr P and Miss L to decide  if they want to take up that offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Ref: DRN06051214Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0605121