K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003.
background
Mr G took out a loan with Nationwide in 2003 with a four year term. He was sold a single 
premium PPI policy at the same  time in connection with this loan during a meeting. 
The PPI could have  covered Mr Gs loan repayments if he was off work sick for the 
remaining term of the loan and for up to 12 months per claim  if he lost his job. The policy  
would also have paid the outstanding loan amount in the unfortunate event of Mr Gs death.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr G didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr G was eligible under the policy.  Based on Mr Gs age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr G would  have been  
eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr G that the PPI was optional  and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to his account. In his questionnaire Mr G says he wasnt aware  
that he had been sold PPI. However, he has later said to the adjudicator he only took out 
PPI because he was advised by the representative to do so. Clearly these two positions are 
inconsistent.
Nationwide have explained their sales process  and provided a copy of the credit agreement  
from the time of the sale. Nationwide say that PPI would only have appeared on this 
agreement if Mr G had explicitly consented to taking it out. And I can see that PPI appeared 
on the credit  agreement under the heading  optional credit insurance. The costs of the 
policy were set out in a separate column to the actual loan. By signing the credit agreement 
with the PPI as an optional  extra, Mr G agreed to take it out. 
So all in all, based on the evidence Ive seen,  I think the PPI was presented  as optional and 
was added to the account because Mr G chose to take it out when he signed  the agreement. 
Of course its understandable  that Mr G may now not remember  this given how long ago the 
sale took place.
Nationwide say they didnt recommend PPI to Mr G. And I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest otherwise.  This means Nationwide didnt have to take steps  to check  the PPI was 
suitable for Mr G. But they did have  to provide Mr G with clear  information so that he could 
Ref: DRN05134752make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should  have 
drawn Mr Gs attention to the costs, benefits  and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
I can see the costs were set out clearly in the credit agreement. But its possible  Nationwide 
didnt give Mr G all of the other information as they should have. This in itself doesnt  mean  
PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better  information  would  have put 
him off taking PPI. 
Having done so, I dont think better information would have put Mr G of taking PPI out. I say 
this because:
-Mr G wasnt  affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the policy  at the time of 
the sale. So it looks like he could have made a successful claim under the policy  if 
the need arose.
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to any other benefits Mr G may have held, 
such as sick pay from his employer.   And  it could  potentially  have done so for a much 
longer period of time (for the remaining term of the loan). It would also have paid out 
for up to 12 months if Mr G lost his job. 
-Although this was a single premium policy, it appears Mr G would have received a 
pro-rata refund if he cancelled the agreement early. This means Mr G wouldnt have 
lost out financially if he wanted to cancel  the agreement early.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr G this 
PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Nationwide  Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0513475