K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies  the first 
taken out in 1998 and the second in 2003. Mr and Mrs L say Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax mis-sold  them the PPI policies.  
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
The borrowing  was taken  jointly by Mr and Mrs L. But the PPI policies just covered Mr L.
Ive decided that neither of the policies were mis-sold. I know this will disappoint 
Mr and Mrs L, and I can see that they feel strongly about their complaint  Ill explain why.  
As there are two separate sales of PPI to consider here, Ill deal with them  in turn. 
Id like to point out here that where  evidence isnt conclusive or where  there is little or no 
evidence at all, Ill be making my decision on what I think  is most likely to have happened  
the balance of probabilities. 
the 1998 sale 
The mortgage was taken out in 1984,  and Ive seen screenshots from Halifaxs internal 
systems that evidence  this. Ive also seen information from Halifaxs records that show  
Mr and Mrs L changed their mortgage product and also took out some further lending in 
1998.
Mr and Mrs L say that at this time Halifax didnt make them aware the PPI was optional and 
they were led to believe it was a requirement of securing  the mortgage. Ive thought  about  
this point very carefully  but I note they signed a separate form for the PPI called Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance Application. 
Ive also noted  that the mortgage was taken out some 14 years previously and from what  
Ive seen it doesnt look like they had any PPI in place at that time. So because of that, I 
think Mr and Mrs L shouldve known they didnt need to take out the PPI to get a mortgage  
as the mortgage was already in place.  
So weighing everything up, I think Halifax most likely  made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt  
have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs L say that they were  pressured into taking out this policy by Halifaxs 
salesperson. And they felt like this because they were told that if they failed to make their 
repayments, their house could  be repossessed. 
I dont know what was said to them at the time of the sale.  And Mr and Mrs L have given 
some detail about what made them  feel pressured  as above. But for me to uphold  their 
Ref: DRN03312642complaint on this point  I would  have to find that its more  likely than not that Halifax acted in 
this way. Ive looked  very carefully  at all the available evidence. But having done so, I simply 
dont have compelling evidence to say that the advisor put any unfair  pressure on 
Mr and Mrs L.
 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. And, ultimately, PPI protected Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage, which was a big and long term commitment, secured on their home
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. But 
Halifax will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax  should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs L any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra they paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
the 2003 sale
In 2003, Mr and Mrs L took out a packaged protection policy called a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) when getting  a further  advance on their mortgage.
A TMPP  can be made up of three different elements  PPI, life cover and critical illness  
cover.  But  Mr and Mrs L have only complained about the PPI part, so thats what Ill be 
considering here. In any event, from what Ive seen from Halifaxs internal records  it looks  
like only PPI cover was taken out. 
Mr and Mrs L say that at this time Halifax didnt make them aware the PPI was optional and 
they were led to believe it was a requirement of securing  the mortgage. Halifax  doesnt have 
any paperwork from Mr and Mrs Ls sale, like the mortgage application or a PPI application. 
Ref: DRN03312643This isnt surprising or unusual given that the sale took place over 15 years  ago. So Ill 
consider the information I do have, and what we know about these particular sales.  
Halifax has shown this service examples of the paperwork that was likely used in these 
types of sales at that time. And Im satisfied its evidence I can reasonably rely on. So based  
on that I think, on balance, Halifax most likely  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to 
take out the PPI  and that they chose  to take it out. 
I know Mr and Mrs L have questioned how without conclusive or definitive evidence a 
decision, thats not in their favour, can be made.  But as I set-out  earlier in my decision, 
where evidence  is not conclusive or available, I make my decision on what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened. And Ive explained above, why I think Halifax most  likely made 
them aware they had a choice.   
Mr and Mrs L say that they were  pressured into taking out this policy by Halifaxs 
salesperson. I dont know what exactly was said to them at the time of the sale.  And 
Mr and Mrs L have given  some detail about what made them feel pressured. But for me to 
uphold their complaint  on this point I would have to find that its more likely  than not that 
Halifax acted in this way. 
Ive looked very carefully at all the available  evidence.  But having done  so, I simply dont 
have compelling  evidence to say that the advisor  put any unfair  pressure on Mr and Mrs L.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L have said - including what theyve said about 
Halifax not telling them they could get PPI elsewhere. But Halifax  was under no obligation to 
do this. So these points  dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs L back  some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs L now Ive issued  my final decision. 
my decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. 
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium for the policy it sold to them  in 
1998. And Halifax will pay them back some  of the cost of the PPI for the policy taken  out in 
2003.
Ref: DRN03312644Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0331264