K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National plc (Santander),  mis-sold 
them a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs M have  been represented throughout their complaint.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 10 May 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Broadly summarised:
I didnt think the PPI policy was mis-sold. Which meant I didnt  think  Santander had to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M. 
But I was of the opinion that Santander should pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs M. This was because Santander got a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  which it should have told 
Mr and Mrs M about. Because  Santander  didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.  To 
put that right, Santander basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I thought that was fair in 
this case.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or information 
that they wished for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Santander  does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN09817192Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and within my provisional decision,  the PPI policy  wasnt mis-
sold. So Santander  UK Plc does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09817193Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National plc (Santander), mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs M have  been  represented throughout their complaint.
background
This complaint is about  the sale of a regular premium PPI policy. Mr and Mrs M took out their initial 
mortgage with Santander  in 1993. PPI wasnt sold at that time.  
In August 1999 Mr and Mrs M applied for further borrowing  and it was at this point that PPI was taken 
out. 
Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly amount  of £12.86 for the policy. The PPI was in Mr Ms name only. The 
PPI had a four week waiting period and covered Mr M if he was unable  to work because  of an 
accident or sickness or if he lost his job. In the event of a successful  claim it would  have provided  a 
monthly benefit of £213.00 for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say that they werent aware  the PPI was optional. The sale of Mr and Mrs Ms PPI 
happened a long time ago, around 20 years. Santander  says that Mr and Mrs M would  have 
completed an application for the further borrowing and also a separate  application for the PPI. It has 
provided a copy of the credit  agreement for the further borrowing, but it hasnt  been able to provide a 
copy of Mr and Mrs Ms PPI application. 
I dont find this surprising given the time that has passed. It can be quite common for a copy  of a 
credit agreement to be kept, but with the PPI application, which was most likely  sent on to the insurer  
to process, I dont expect there to be a copy. But Santander  has provided (from  the insurer  of the 
policy) a copy of the insurance Welcome letter and a copy of the Schedule of Insurance which  
shows the policy details and that the policy  commenced on 31 August 1999.
While Mr and Mrs M say they werent  aware the policy  was optional, I have to take into consideration 
that their initial mortgage  taken in 1993 was taken without PPI. So I think they would have been  
reasonably aware that the PPI wasnt a condition of the borrowing.
I can see that Mrs M wasnt employed at the time, so wouldnt have been eligible for the policy. And it 
seems to me that this is most likely the reason  the cover was in Mr Ms name  only.  
But I do appreciate that as the sale took place  a long time ago, it is quite understandable that Mr and 
Mrs M might not remember this  as memories do naturally fade over time. And buying insurance  isnt 
typically a memorable  experience.
Ref: DRN09817194Overall I think  its likely that there was a conversation about PPI and Santander made  Mr and Mrs M 
aware that they had a choice about taking the PPI and they chose to take it out and at the level they 
required.
Santander says that it would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, and it seems to have been 
right for them  based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.  
Taking a mortgage, or taking out further borrowing  on a mortgage is a large, long term financial 
commitment. Borrowers stand to lose their home if they dont keep up with repayments.
Mr M has told us that he only received statutory  sick pay from his employer if he was unable to work 
because of an accident or sickness. The PPI would have protected Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage for up 
to 12 months  per claim, if Mr M was unable to work  due to an accident or sickness if he lost his job.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M say that they had some  savings  that they could have used to help 
meet their repayments. But having the PPI meant that they wouldnt have had to rely on their savings. 
I also note that their savings would have only covered  them for a short while.  So I think that if Mr M, 
was out of work for a lengthy  period,  Mr and Mrs M would have struggled to meet their monthly  
repayments.
All things considered, I think the cover could have provided a useful benefit and I cant  fairly say that 
the advisers recommendation was unsuitable.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I think its likely that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out 
the cover.  
Which means Santander doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because : 
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative says there have been other  court cases in relation  to non-disclosure of 
commission where consumers have received  everything back. So they say Mr and Mrs M should  
receive more in compensation. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) published rules and guidance about how firms that are 
lenders should assess a complaint  to establish whether  failure to disclose commission  gave rise to an 
unfair relationship  under  section 140A  of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (CCA). And how they should 
determine the appropriate redress (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy  
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission  and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN09817195Santander, in light of the FCAs rules and guidance, looked at Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy. Santander 
said that the level of commission and profit  share it received did create an unfair  relationship. So to 
put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid each month for the time the 
commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Its offer also includes 
8% per year simple  interest  to compensate Mr and Mrs M for any time they were out of pocket.  
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives say that because there have been other court cases where 
consumers have  received  everything back,  Mr and Mrs M should receive  more  in compensation. 
One of the things we take into account when  deciding  what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint is the law. But we also need to take into account relevant regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  we consider to be 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Santander has made Mr and Mrs M an offer of compensation  in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line  with the methods  set out by the FCA. But Mr and Mrs Ms 
representatives want  Santander  to do something different than the rules and guidance as set out by 
the financial regulator. 
We do look at the particular circumstances of each complaint and each consumer to see if theres 
anything about them that would mean the business should do something different  if the remedies 
set out in the FCAs rules  wouldnt lead to fair and reasonable redress for that individual consumer. 
But there isnt anything about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  that suggests  the redress offered by 
Santander isnt fair or reasonable.
I accept that if Mr and Mrs M went to court and it was decided there was an unfair  relationship under 
section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act, they might be awarded a full refund of the premiums they 
paid  this would be a remedy available.  And this is a route thats available to Mr and Mrs M if they 
dont accept my decision. 
In this case I think Santanders offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Mr and Mrs M any extra interest 
they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am of the provisional opinion that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so 
Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander  UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I invite both parties to provide me with anything further they wish for me to consider  by 
10 June 2019. I will then consider anything I receive and issue my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0981719