K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
In January 2001 Mrs F took out a store card. In June 2001  PPI was added  to her account  
following a telephone call. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Mrs F owed on her store card and it protected  
Mrs Fs store card monthly repayments  if she couldnt work because  of an accident or 
sickness or if she lost her job. 
FICL say Mrs F paid £23.14 for the PPI over the time she held the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs F completed a store card application  form in January 2001. FICL  has provided a copy of 
this and it shows PPI wasnt selected at this time.  FICL says it was added during a telephone 
call. 
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
But that is understandable as it was such a long time ago. So I dont know  what  it may have 
said to Mrs F when  the policy was sold. But based on what this service knows about  the 
sales process, and given that PPI was added some  time after shed made her store  card 
application and had the account, I think there  was most likely a conversation  about  PPI and 
Mrs F wouldve been aware that the policy was optional. 
It was up to FICL to provide Mrs F with clear information about  the policy so she could 
decide if she wanted to take it out. Mrs F was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look as if 
she was affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
Ref: DRN09448362Mrs F says she received good  sick pay from her employer if she was unable  to work 
because of an accident or sickness  and didnt need  the PPI. 
The PPI policy would  have paid out a benefit  if Mrs F couldnt work as a result of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It would have covered 15% of what Mrs F owed on the card at 
the point of claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount  each  month until Mrs F 
returned to work or the outstanding balance had been cleared.  It would  have also paid out 
on top of Mrs Fs sick pay. This could have been a useful benefit  at whats  likely  to have 
been a difficult  time if Mrs F needed  to claim.
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs F to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But I think  if Mrs F had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided she still would  have thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mrs F  and Im satisfied  that 
its likely  she took it out when she didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Mrs F off taking out 
the policy, given  her situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Mrs F all the information  it should have done when 
it sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs F has lost out as a result of anything that FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0944836