K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that he received unsuitable advice  by Independent Wealth  Management 
Consultants Ltd (IWMC) to transfer  benefits from his defined  benefit (DB) pension scheme to 
a personal pension.
background
Mr P was advised by IWMC  to transfer  benefits  from his DB pension  to a personal  pension in 
1998. In 2006 IWMC  advised Mr P to switch to a different pension provider.
In 2018, Mr P complained to IWMC through a representative (R) about the advice given to 
him both in 1998 and 2006. They said transferring hadnt been  in Mr Ps best interest. IWMC  
responded to say Mr P had complained too late regarding the pension  transfer advice  in 
1998 and they could  find no reason for upholding the complaint in relation to the subsequent  
advice given in 2006. They later said the complaint about the 2006 advice might also be 
time-barred.
R referred the complaint to this service.  An ombudsman  issued  a decision saying that the 
complaint about  both advice events had been made  within  the regulators time limits and we 
could consider the merits of the complaint.
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision  on the merits of the complaint. IWMC 
has continued to raise jurisdiction arguments following my colleagues jurisdiction decision. 
As jurisdiction is a live consideration until the merits have been fully concluded, I 
re-considered whether  I had the power to look into the merits of Mr Ps complaint. 
Having done so, I was satisfied that the complaint  had been made in time. I also explained 
that, based on the information I had, I thought the advice  in 1998 had been unsuitable and 
Mr P shouldnt have been  advised to transfer  from his DB scheme. With regards to the 
advice in 2006, I said the DB transfer  redress guidance would compare the value  of Mr Ps 
DB pension  with his current pension value,  so any uphold on the subsequent transfer 
wouldnt lead to any additional compensation.  For this reason I didnt think further 
investigation into the merits of that advice would be needed, unless my decision on the 1998 
advice changed  to a non-uphold following further  comments from IWMC.  I asked both 
parties to provide any further comments or information they wanted me to consider.
R didnt respond.  IWMC disagreed with my initial findings and provided  further comments  
relating to both jurisdiction  and merits.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Transfer advice in 1998
Jurisdiction
The regulator has set rules for this service about when we can and cant  consider 
complaints, the Dispute  Resolution (DISP) rules. With regards to time limits, DISP 2.8.2R 
sets out that:
Ref: DRN02155482The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of: or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become  aware) that he had cause for complaint: 
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period  and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received
Mr P clearly  complained more than six years after he received the advice in 1998.  So the 
key issue here to consider is whether Mr P ought to have reasonably been aware more than 
three years before he complained in 2018 (i.e. before 2015) that he had cause for complaint. 
IWMCs main  arguments were as follows:
When Mr P transferred his pension  in 1998 he was given information about the DB 
pension benefits  he was giving up. So when  he received annual  statements over the 
years and had ongoing reviews  of his pensions with IWMC which showed him his 
projected income in retirement, he ought to have realised that this was significantly 
below what he could  have  had in his DB pension.
There was a drop in fund value in Mr Ps new plan in the first two years (from 
£47,737.45 to £43,750.91)  and again  between 2011 and 2012 (from £80,126.10 to 
£74,624.78). Given that he was told in 1998  that growth of 7.6% was needed to 
match the benefits in the DB scheme,  these performance issues  should have also 
made him aware  that as a consequence  there might  be a shortfall in retirement.
In my provisional findings I said the following:
In order to make a comparison between his DB benefits and his existing benefits  in his 
personal pension,  Mr P needed to know what he had given up. IWMC pointed to the 
Transfer Value  Analysis  (TVAS)  Report which in the middle of the report  showed a line of :
pension revalued  to its commencement date (£pa):   1,727.36        2,307.62     9,073.51
IWMC said it would  have  been clear to Mr P from this that his benefits at age 60 in the DB 
scheme would  have been £13,108.49  (the sum of the three numbers above). I dont agree. 
Firstly, its unclear whether Mr P would have been  given  the TVAS  report.  Whilst IWMC  
would have used  this to work out the critical yield (the growth needed in the personal 
pension to match the DB benefits) its not particularly customer  friendly and for this reason 
firms often summarise  key information  from it for customers in the suitability report. And 
even if Mr P had been given a copy of this report, Im not convinced that he would have 
added the right figures together  and then remembered  this number for further reference. I 
might have seen this differently, if the suitability  report  for example had explicitly  stated that if 
he continued in the DB scheme  he would  receive  £13,108.49 per year from age 60. But this 
wasnt the case here. In fact the suitability report was silent  on what benefits  Mr P was giving 
up. So theres no evidence that this was discussed  in detail.
Ref: DRN02155483I also considered the transfer-out statement that was issued by the DB schemes 
administrators in May 1998. I think its more likely that Mr P would have received this from 
the scheme at the time. It showed the current value of the deferred benefits  under the DB 
scheme as a Members  annual pension of £5,240.60 pa, plus a tax-free  lump  sum of 
£15,721.81. It also said the above  benefits would  be paid from age 60. I think  this would  
have been clear enough, even for a lay person, to understand what  the benefits were at the 
point he transferred. I wouldnt expect Mr P to memorise this exact sum over the years  and I 
do appreciate this transfer happened  a long time ago. However, I think its reasonable to 
assume he would have remembered a ballpark figure of around  £5k income per year. Whilst 
the statement  does  mention at the bottom  that all the deferred benefits  attract  annual  
increases, I wouldnt necessarily expect Mr P to be able to have a number in mind  of what  
this would be at different  retirement ages. This would have needed a detailed calculation.
So even if Im assuming  Mr W had a rough number of £5k annual income in mind  that his DB 
scheme would  have provided,  Im still not satisfied  that the information he was given before 
2015 ought to have  made him aware  that he had cause for complaint about the advice he 
was given in 1998. Ive seen annual statements from 2009, 2011, 2012 and 2014  which  
show the following:
projected benefits at retirement age (non-protected rights (NPR) and protected rights (PR)
Apr 2009: pension value £53,116.28             NPR £2,010 pa, PR £359 pa
Apr 2011: pension value £80,126.10,            NPR £4,010 pa, PR £709 pa
Apr 2012: pension value £74,624.78,            NPR: £2420 pa, PR: £431 pa
Apr 2014: pension value £84,591.22,            NPR: £2,640 pa
So just looking at the annual statements I have in isolation, I agree that in 2012 and 2014  
the values would have been  less than the £5k income Mr P possibly remembered from his 
DB scheme.  However, as IWMC stated themselves, Mr P received ongoing pension reviews  
from them. And I think he would have put more  weight on what  IWMC  as his financial 
advisers were telling him about his retirement  provisions overall rather than looking  at his 
statements himself in great detail. So Ive looked  at the annual review reports IWMC 
provided from 2010 and 2012.
Their letter  of 17 August  2010 said:
We discussed the performance of your pension arrangements, I advised that following the 
losses that had been experienced within your combined pension  portfolios at your 2009 
review of 19.5% as a result of events which have now collectively become known as the 
credit crunch (details  of which have been  provided in previous correspondences), the 
markets had as we anticipated undertaken a period of recovery and as a result I was able to 
advise that at the time of your review your combined  pension  portfolios were demonstrating 
growth of 28% after charges. This means  that the pension arrangements collectively have 
recovered previous  losses  and started  to move  back into a position of growth.
You are aware from our previous discussions,  and I reminded you within  the meeting, that in 
adopting a very  speculative approach to investment  risk that your portfolio will at times  
show swings  between periods of loss and periods of growth but accept this as a 
natural consequence of such an investment  strategy in the hope and conviction, that 
as has been  demonstrated historically, that such  an approach  over  the longer term  (5 
years plus) will have the potential of achieving greater levels  of growth.[my emphasis]
Ref: DRN02155484We then discussed  the potential income which may be provided from [Mr Ps] pension  fund 
at retirement and I advised that assuming a retirement age of 65, average investment growth 
of 7% per annum and that [Mr Ps] current levels of pension contribution continue to be 
made by yourself  and your employer and increased in Iine with salary  increases, that your 
projected pension  fund at retirement  has a potential  to provide an income  level of 
£12,282 gross per annum  in todays terms.[my emphasis]
Another review letter  of 3 September 2012  said:
If we take [Mr Ps] pension values  in his Transact  arrangement and his Drax pension and 
assume that both [Mr Ps] and his employers pension contributions  are maintained  at their 
current levels ,in line with salary changes up to retirement, then his combined pensions  are 
estimated to have a value at the age of 63 sufficient to provide an income of £7,283 gross 
per annum  in todays  terms.
We also discussed that these projections  are based on an average growth rate of 7% per 
annum and whilst recent years have meant that level of growth has not been  achievable  as 
yet as [Mr P] has adopted a Very Speculative approach to investment there is the potential 
that his pension funds could make growth  between now and his retirements at a 
much higher  level thus closing some of the shortfall gap; although  this cannot be 
guaranteed.[my emphasis]
Having discussed  in our previous meetings and subsequently covered in our 
correspondences in some detail the issues which have  been affecting the investment 
markets over recent years I do not propose to repeat those  observations and comments 
here except  to say, as had been our previous expectation, that the markets  have continued 
to demonstrate volatility (upwards and downwards  movements) at all levels  of the 
investment risk scale.
I appreciate that the income projections mentioned in those reports also included Mr Ps 
workplace pension. However, like I said above, as Mr P was receiving a review service I 
dont think he would  have  necessarily worked  out how much of this came from which  
pension, but I think he would have more likely relied on IWMCs overall summary. Even if Mr 
P had a £5k figure in mind  from his DB scheme,  I think the figures quoted  to him overall  
were higher  than this and he was told that there  was potential for this to grow to a much 
higher level. So I dont think this would have  caused him concern.
And even  if he did look at his statements, in 2011  his projected benefits were  around £5k too 
and IWMC  had told him that markets were volatile and could go up and down and given his 
risk profile there would be swings between periods of loss and growth. So when  his 
statements in 2012 and 2014 showed lower projections I think  he reasonably  could have 
thought there was potential for this to go up again  until he retired  (which in 2014 was still 11 
years away).  If the low projections continued  for several years  after that and Mr P had been 
closer to retirement, again I might see this differently. But in the circumstances  here, I dont 
think Mr P reasonably ought to have been  aware  before  2015  that he had cause for 
complaint about  the advice he received in 1998.
I also dont think that drops in fund value shortly after he transferred or between  2011 and 
2012 should have alerted him that anything was wrong. As IWMC  told Mr P (and any adviser 
would), investments  can go up and down. That in itself isnt automatically a reason for 
concern, particularly in a pension plan where Mr P was still a long way from retirement  and 
he was told that due to his risk profile  ups and downs  could  be more volatile but in the long-
Ref: DRN02155485term had the potential for higher returns. I also dont think its reasonable to expect that Mr P 
should have worked out the annual growth  his new pension had achieved and realised that 
this was below the critical  yield quoted to him in 1998.
So having  looked at the time bar issue again  Im satisfied Mr P has complained  in time in 
relation to the advice in 1998.  
Response to my provisional findings
IWMC maintained that Mr P had complained too late. They  said in Rs original complaint 
they had said Mr P was advised that he should transfer his pension  as this would enable  
him to draw his pension  from the age of 50. This indeed transpired not to be the case. The 
complaint also said our client is clearly of the opinion that he was given inaccurate  and 
indeed quite clearly  misleading advice at the time of his transfers.
IWMC says this shows Mr Ps main issue was that he couldnt draw  pension benefits from 
age 50. They say Mr P was informed in 2006  that a change in legislation  meant  the minimum 
retirement age would increase from 50 to 55 in 2010. So he was aware that he had cause for 
complaint about  this issue in 2006.
I dont think its plausible  that Mr Ps complaint was mainly about not being able to draw 
benefits at age 50. I say this because at age 50 his retirement planning review said that he 
was looking to retire  at 63. Retirement  at age 50 seems to have  been  a key reason  to 
transfer, however  when  Mr P actually got to this age many years later, he had no plans of 
retiring that early. So this wouldnt have been  an issue.  
When Mr P complained to this service, R said Mr P had been mis-sold  a pension. The 
transfer was not in his interests  and in particular he lost specific defined benefits.  When  
responding to our file request and making  their jurisdiction arguments, IWMC  argued Mr P 
should have been aware that he had cause  for complaint  because  of the difference  in 
retirement benefits, which suggests  that the shortfall in benefits  is what  they saw as the crux 
of the complaint as well. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr Ps complaint relates  to being unsuitably advised  to transfer out 
of his DB scheme  and that he thinks hes now worse  off as a result.  I dont think  his 
knowledge of not being able to draw benefits at age 50-when he didnt really want  to do that 
at this age- triggered  awareness that he had cause for complaint. I also note that IWMC  had 
told Mr P in 2006 that the minimum retirement age would change due to new legislation. So 
even if he had wanted to retire at 50, I think he would have known the change in retirement  
age was down  to the government and not to the adviser telling him something incorrect.
IWMC say Mr P made an unsolicited approach  to receive advice about his pension  in 2006. 
He wanted advice on whether to leave his pension  with the existing provider, transfer it to his 
employers pension scheme or transfer it elsewhere. He also agreed that he would  like the 
opportunity for the money in his pension to work  harder than is the current  case. IWMC  
thinks this shows Mr P had an understanding at the time of how this pension was performing  
compared to his expectations of how it needed  to perform to achieve  his aims. I dont think 
its unusual for someone to review their pension arrangements and seek advice whether 
they should change anything. Just because Mr P was actively looking to get the best out of 
this pension, I dont  think this demonstrates he knew his pension would likely provide less in 
retirement than his DB scheme would have  done and that there  might  have  been  issues with 
the advice he received  years earlier.
Ref: DRN02155486IWMC says there is no reason to believe Mr P wasnt provided with documents  which  
showed his DB benefits and the adviser  letter in 1998 also outlines that the value of benefits 
and the growth  rate required were discussed.  I dont doubt  that Mr P would have received 
some information. However,  as stated previously I havent seen evidence that Mr P was 
given a clear figure which showed his revalued  benefits in the DB scheme at age 60. 
IWMC reiterated  that the personal pension statements in 2009,  2011,  2012 and 2014 
showed projected benefits which were  all less than the DB non-revalued figure of £5,240 Mr 
P had been  provided with. And even though IWMCs reports  had made comments about the 
total potential  income  being a lot higher (£12,282), these figures included  another pension 
and ongoing  pension contributions. I already  acknowledged and took into account these 
facts in my provisional findings and provided reasons why I still didnt think  Mr P ought to 
have reasonably been aware that he had cause for complaint before 2015. So Im not going 
to repeat these here. IWMC hasnt raised anything new in this respect,  so this hasnt 
changed my mind.
In summary,  I dont think he had sufficiently  clear information to reasonably become aware 
that his retirement  benefits in the personal  pension would fall significantly short of those he 
could have had if he had stayed in the DB scheme. 
Having carefully considered IWMCs submissions,  I remain satisfied that I have jurisdiction to 
consider Mr Ps complaint about the advice in 1998.
Merits
In my provisional decision I said I was minded to say that the advice to transfer from his DB 
scheme to a personal  pension in 1998  was unsuitable. I said the following:
The advice was given  during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide  Pensions  Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required  to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension  transfers,  
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been  considered  
reasonably achievable when the advice was given  in this case. The investment return  
(critical yield)  required  to match the occupational pension  at age 60 was 7.6%  per year.  This 
compares with the discount  rate of also 7.6%  per year for 24 years to retirement in this case. 
So I think given that Mr P was still many  years from retirement and assuming he was willing 
and able to take some risk with his pension,  I think he could have matched the benefits from 
the scheme. However,  in order to make  a transfer financially viable, the transfer  needed to 
enable Mr P to exceed his DB benefits.  Giving up guarantees  just to likely  stand  still and 
take the risk to be worse off is not in a clients best interest. I can see from a statement in 
2001 that Mr P was invested about  50% in a managed fund and around 25% each in a UK 
equity fund and a fund called Safety  first which I assume would have included  low risk 
investment. When switching his pension in 2007, IWMC also said that he had been invested 
in a cautious to moderate  portfolio.  So based  on the information I have it looks like Mr P was 
invested in balanced investments which in the circumstances seems reasonable, but I dont 
think was likely to provide higher returns than the critical  yield. 
This was Mr Ps only pension at the time and he had no other investments, other than some 
that IWMC  had recommended him to make with some of his redundancy money. He had 17 
Ref: DRN02155487years of service, so this would have been a substantial  part of his retirement provision  and I 
dont think he had a high capacity for loss with regards to his DB pension.
Of course financial  viability  isnt the only consideration when giving transfer  advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean  a transfer is suitable. In Mr Ps case it seems that 
he was considering early  retirement at age 50 which apparently  wasnt  possible in the DB 
scheme. The suitability  letter  in 1998  gave  the reasons for the recommendation as follows:
The basis  of this recommendation was the probability that you would like to retire earlier  
than the present scheme would normally allow, subjective reason, you do not wish to have 
anymore to do with [Mr Ps ex-employer]. Finally, also to, at least,  equal  the benefits  of 
retirement provided by your existing Superannuation scheme  by transferring to a personal  
pension and annual  growth rate through to retirement,  only 7.6% per annum is required.
So I think the main  reason  here were  Mr Ps potential early  retirement plans. In a later report  
in 2006 this is referred to again:
You took severance from [Mr Ps ex-employer] and at the time you were  given  the option to 
take your [DB] Pension at age 50 or age 63 and elected to take an age of 63. Later,  having  
reconsidered this decision, you decided that a retirement age of 50 was more  desirable and 
arranged for the funds  to be transferred to a personal pension  to achieve this.
Assuming its correct  that Mr P couldnt take his benefits at age 50 from the DB scheme, I 
still dont think this justified a transfer at this time. At the time of the advice he was 35 years 
old and he was had just left his first employment.  Whilst  early  retirement  might  have 
sounded attractive,  there was a strong  possibility these  plans could  change  over the next 15 
years. He didnt need to transfer then. He could have kept his guaranteed  benefits and if 
nearer retirement he still wanted  to take his benefits early, he could have transferred at that 
point. However, if his plans had changed  (which they did eventually  do), taking the benefits 
at the scheme  normal retirement age of 60 wouldnt have been a problem.
The suitability letter also mentioned that Mr P didnt want to have anything  to do with his ex-
employer. It might have been  that Mr P left his employment on acrimonious terms and did 
feel this way. But even  if he did, the adviser should  have explained to him objectively that 
this shouldnt be a reason  to transfer away from valuable benefits. So overall,  I think Mr P 
should have been advised to keep his deferred  DB benefits and I see no reason why he 
wouldnt have followed this advice.  As a result  I think without this unsuitable advice Mr P 
would still have his DB benefits. The reasonable method to compensate  Mr P for this would  
be to follow  the regulators DB transfer redress guidance FG19/7. 
Response to my provisional findings
IWMC says my conclusion that Mr P couldnt exceed the critical yield is based  on the normal  
scheme retirement age. However, Mr P wanted to retire early, so the benefits in the scheme  
would have been reduced by way of an early  retirement penalty whereas the personal 
pension funds would not. So on early retirement the personal pension had the potential to be 
higher than the benefits from the DB scheme.  I think IWMC  isnt able to make this statement 
based on the information they provided. At the time of the advice they should have made  a 
comparison between the DB scheme at early retirement  and in the personal  pension. But 
they didnt. 
Ref: DRN02155488Its likely  that any early  retirement benefits  in the DB scheme would have  been  reduced 
which in turn would  have  reduced the critical yield. However, taking benefits  in the personal 
pension at age 50 rather than age 60 also would have meant the loss of ten years  of 
investment growth.  So there would have been reductions in both pensions. Without knowing 
by how much the DB benefits would have  reduced, the critical yield at age 50 is unknown. 
And I cant see that IWMC  requested this information from Mr Ps DB scheme at the time.
So from what Ive seen  IWMC  didnt know in 1998 and presumably dont know  now whether 
Mr P had the potential  to actually be better  off in the personal pension at age 50. Fact is they 
based their recommendation in 1998 on comparisons  to age 60. I also note that any 
potential added growth needed  to be enough to make the risk of being financially worse off 
worthwhile, so the critical yield needed  to be exceeded by some  margin. And even if I 
assume this would have  been the case here if he retired at age 50-which on balance I think 
is unlikely- I still question  that it was in Mr Ps interest to transfer for a potential gain at age 
50 but risk being  worse  off if he decided to draw  benefits later,  when he was still so long 
away from retirement that his retirement age could likely change. 
IWMC say although he had 17 years of service in his DB scheme, he and his wife also would 
have had state pensions and his wife also had benefits in a DB scheme. As Mr P was many  
years from retirement he also could have accrued further pension benefits. So he wasnt  
solely reliant on the funds from his DB pension and had capacity for loss. IWMC is also 
aware that Mr P subsequently received a sum of inheritance improving his financial position  
further.
I never  said Mr P had no capacity for loss and I do agree that he had several years to 
potentially accrue  further benefits. But his 17 years worth of service did make  up a 
significant part of his retirement  provisions. His wife was only working  part-time  with a very 
low income and state benefits  would have been still years away  if he retired early. So I dont  
think Mr P had a high capacity for loss on this portion of his retirement  provisions. And as set 
out above it was more  likely Mr P would be worse off or in the same position  as in his DB 
scheme than better off. 
I note that IWMC have referred  in later years  to Mr P having a speculative  attitude to risk. 
However at the time of the transfer he was invested into low to medium  risk investments and 
in 2006 also went  into a cautious to moderate  portfolio, so at the time of the advice (and 
many years later), IWMC obviously didnt see him as a high-risk investor. The fact that Mr P 
might have received  an inheritance later on is also irrelevant as it happened after the advice. 
So I still remain satisfied that Mr P didnt have the attitude or capacity to take the risk to be 
worse off in retirement  when the chances  to be better off were very slim.
I previously said Mr P didnt need  to make a transfer decision when he did. He was still many 
years from retirement and plans for early retirement could change. IWMC responded to say 
early retirement was still very much on Mr Ps mind  and a priority for him in 2006. At the time 
he enquired whether it was possible to access benefits then, at age 43. And whilst he then 
said he realistically would continue working until age 63, he still had the desire to phase in 
his retirement and withdraw  part of his pension earlier. I dont deny Mr P was still interested 
in early retirement, but I still think there  was no need  for him to make  a decision in his mid-
thirties around this and he could  have transferred when he had a more concrete idea about 
his situation in retirement and knew what he needed.
Im also not convinced by IWMCs  argument  that if the decision had been delayed  the 
transfer value  could have been  lower than in 1998.  Although this generally  was a possibility 
Ref: DRN02155489as transfer values can go up and down, I dont  think a drop in value was a reasonable 
assumption to make  and in any event was not a good enough reason to recommend a 
transfer.
IWMC claim as Mr P had been  made  redundant he had concerns about the financial stability  
of his former  employers  pension  scheme. If his employer had run into difficulties and 
couldnt support  the scheme his pension could have been at risk. They  say at the time there 
were no lifeboat schemes like today. Again IWMCs statements here arent  supported by 
the evidence.  The paperwork doesnt show that Mr P had such concerns  or that Mr Ps 
employer was in fact in financial difficulty to the point where the pension  scheme was at risk. 
Having considered IWMCs further  submissions I maintain that Mr P shouldnt  have  been  
advised to transfer away  from his DB scheme. Ill set out the compensation IWMC should  
pay Mr P below.
Subsequent advice to switch this pension to another provider  in 2006
I havent seen  any evidence that makes  me think the complaint about the advice given  in 
2006 is time-barred.  However, I havent considered further whether  the advice to move his 
pension again  was suitable.  This is because the regulators DB pension transfer redress 
guidance Im asking IWMC to follow will compare the value of Mr Ps DB pension  with his 
current pension value.  This means,  even if I were to uphold the subsequent  transfer  
complaint, it wouldnt  lead to any additional  compensation  for Mr P.  So I dont think further  
investigation into the merits of the 2006  advice is needed. 
putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice in 1998. I consider he would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. IWMC must therefore undertake  a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:  Guidance for firms on how to calculate  
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance  of the decision.
IWMC may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ps 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN021554810If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date 
IWMC receives  notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest  must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes IWMC 
to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000 plus any interest  and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think  are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Independent Wealth Management 
Consultants Ltd should pay Mr P the amount produced by that calculation   up to a 
maximum of £150,000 plus any interest as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000 I recommend that Independent Wealth Management Consultants Ltd pay Mr 
P the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Independent Wealth  
Management Consultants  Ltd dont have  to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr P can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0215548