K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy  was taken out 
when Mr S was applying for a mortgage.  The policy provided Mr S with cover for accident,  
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Nationwide didnt actually  sell this policy,  another  building society did. But Nationwide  has 
taken responsibility  for the sale, so Ill refer to it throughout this decision.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S suggests he wasnt given a choice about  taking out the PPI, and suggests it was added 
to his mortgage without his knowledge, as he doesnt recall  it being sold.  I cant be sure what 
was discussed  between him and Nationwide, but I cant see anything  on his mortgage 
application that suggested he had to buy PPI. It wasnt  mentioned on his mortgage offer 
either. About a month  after the mortgage  was offered to Mr S he completed  and signed an 
application for PPI. Again  I cant see anything that says the PPI is compulsory.
Mr S did tell us about an amount he was paying each month  about £8.43   towards 
insurance. Ive looked at his paperwork and that premium is in respect of a life assurance 
policy Mr S took out. Thats not part of this complaint  but it does  appear  that this insurance 
might have been compulsory, so it might be that this is what Mr S recalls about  compulsory  
insurance.
Overall, despite what Mr S remembers, I think the bank  made  him aware that PPI was 
optional and he chose  to take it out.
Ref: DRN02245212The bank didnt  advise  Mr S to take out the policy, but it did need  to give him enough  
information so he could make an informed choice.  I think Nationwide  most likely did that, and 
it was for Mr S to decide if the policy suited him. I accept hes told us about his work benefits  
and savings, but I dont think these made the policy  unsuitable  for him. Mr S also told us 
about some  other health and life insurance he had  but these  normally pay out in different 
circumstances than PPI does, so I cant say they made the PPI unsuitable. 
The PPI application  set out what the policy would cost each month  and the monthly benefit 
that would  be paid if a successful claim was made.  So I think Mr S would have been able to 
take that into account. 
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. I think it unlikely Mr S would  have made  a different decision if better  information  had 
been provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019. 
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0224521