K821x#15Complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI)  have dealt with a claim following 
an incident where a third-party vehicle hit his vehicle whilst it was parked.
Background
Mr Ms parked vehicle was impacted by a third-party vehicle. Details  were  exchanged and 
both parties  informed their own insurers. Mr M submitted a claim through  his own insurer,  
and his vehicle was repaired. But when his policy was due to renew Mr M saw his premium  
had increased quite  substantially. He questioned the increase and he was told it was 
because there  was a fault claim open  on his policy. He was advised  that the third party was 
denying liability for the incident.
Mr M contacted the third party who in turn contacted UKI. At this point it came to light that 
UKI had the incorrect registration number for the third-party vehicle and had been requesting  
confirmation of liability from the wrong  insurer. UKI then contacted the correct  insurer,  
liability was admitted, and the claim was closed. At this point UKI paid Mr M £100 for some 
poor customer service hed received around this time and reduced  his renewal to take 
account of the non-fault accident.
But Mr M remained unhappy. He is the owner of a number of vehicles and he feels  the open  
claim had a detrimental impact on the premium hes paid for these policies. He also feels 
that UKI ignored  the main  part of his complaint and had just closed it without a thorough 
investigation.
So, he complained  to our service. He said:
UKI had wasted months  chasing the wrong  third-party insurer.
That a non-fault accident  was recorded  as fault and still remained open on CUE.  All 
his policies were  affected.
He had received  a very poor service and he felt UKI were trying  to scam him.
An investigator  looked  into his complaint.  She agreed that Mr M had received a poor service 
and there  had been unnecessary delays.  But she felt that Mr M had played a part in this too 
when he made a mistake with the third-party  registration number. But she felt UKI hadnt  
done enough and asked  UKI to pay a further £150 in compensation.
But Mr M remained  unhappy. So, he asked  for an ombudsmans decision. In the meantime, 
his three  motor  policies renewed again, and it came to light at this time that the fault claim 
had never been amended to non-fault on an external database,  the claims underwriting  
exchange (CUE). UKI apologised and confirmed that it hadnt affected his premiums  on the 
UKI policy. But it said it may affect  policies he had with other  insurers.  UKI paid Mr M a 
further £100 for the inconvenience  caused.  But Mr M remained unhappy so he submitted 
another complaint to our service.
Another investigator  wrote to Mr M. He confirmed that as both complaints were linked, wed 
deal with both at the same time. He felt that the award of £350 (in total)  for the mistakes  and 
inconvenience caused was sufficient. And that Mr M should approach the other two insurers  
with which  he had policies  separately. 
Ref: DRN03764382But Mr M remains unhappy  and has requested  an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me start by explaining  that when a consumers vehicle is involved in an incident,  this will 
more often than not affect the premium in some  way. So, whether its deemed to be fault or 
non-fault, or even  whether a claim is made or not, once theres  been an incident, its 
recorded and this incident can be taken  into account when an insurer  is pricing the policy. 
Changes to risk will also affect  the premium. So, when  someone moves address or changes  
their vehicle, this will also impact  what  the customer pays.
In this case Mr M submitted a claim.  Ive listened to the call where Mr M reported the 
incident. And I note that during the call, when Mr M gave the third-party vehicle registration 
details, the last two letters in the registration werent in the correct sequence. But it is clear  
that Mr M also gave the third-party  name, address and telephone number, along  with the 
third-party insurer and claim number.
I appreciate that when  a claim is submitted its not always  a straightforward process and 
there can be complications.  In this case the repairs invoice wasnt received by UKI until 
June 2018. And when UKI attempted  to recoup its outlay  the third-party insurer denied 
liability. At this point I wouldve expected  UKI to review the file for further information.  But 
from what I can see it just sent an accident  information form to Mr M to fill out, without 
making it clear  what was required  or why it was required. And it was only when Mr M 
contacted UKI at renewal  in October  2018 that it came to light that UKI had been attempting  
to recoup its outlay from the wrong insurer.
I agree that Mr M gave incorrect information. But this was a genuine mistake, and everything 
else he provided was correct. UKI is the insurer here and its the party  with the experience 
on what needs to happen to progress a claim. So, when UKI realised there may be an issue,  
instead of pushing the responsibility back onto the consumer, with no explanation,  it 
shouldve spent  some time reviewing its file. If UKI had done this, it wouldve realised that it 
enough information to trace the correct insurer. So, I think  UKI couldve done more to 
resolve the issue at this stage. 
Further to this, when this mistake was realised, UKI shouldve amended the claims 
underwriting exchange (CUE) to reflect that the incident was non-fault. And whereas UKI 
seems to have  updated its own system (a system note from 18 October 2018 says no claims 
discount (NCD) was allowed  and premium  was amended), the claim remained on CUE as an 
open fault claim for an additional year, until September 2019. 
I think overall UKIs approach to this claim  caused a lot of unnecessary distress.  Mr M had 
two other  vehicles insured elsewhere,  and he felt that the open claim was also having an 
effect on these premiums  too. Weve  written  to Mr M separately about  these policies. And 
Mr M is aware  that if he still has concerns  about either of these policies, he needs  to raise 
that separately. But even if none of these other policies were affected by the error, Mr M 
wasnt to know this. As far as he was aware the UKI premium  had been reduced when the 
error was first discovered in 2018, so I can see why he thought he was being overcharged  
on his other  policies when the CUE  error came to light.  
Ref: DRN03764383Mr M was also very unhappy with the service he received. And whereas its clear that this 
was a very volatile  situation, and Mr M was very frustrated with how he was being  treated 
and became aggressive, UKI failed to recognise why he was frustrated and things went  from 
bad to worse, as Mr M felt he wasnt  being listened  too. 
For example, when  UKI sent its final response to the complaint dated 30 October 2018,  it 
never actually mentioned  what had happened with the claim. The response dealt solely  with 
the way Mr M was treated during calls on 17 and 18 October  2018. And whereas I 
appreciate that UKI awarded  £100 for what happened during these calls, if the complaint had 
been properly investigated, its likely that the CUE issue wouldve come to light at this stage, 
and not a full 12 months  later.
As it stands UKI have advised  that Mr M was never overcharged  on this specific policy  
because the claim was incorrectly recorded. And its now confirmed that the claim has been 
recorded correctly both externally (on CUE) and internally on its own database. And all the 
other insurers that Mr M uses  have been contacted and theyve all confirmed their current  
position on the claim. In total Mr M has been  offered £350 for the distress  and inconvenience 
this has caused. Thats broken down as £100  for the calls on 17 and 18 October 2018, and a 
further £100 for the issue with CUE. And this service recommended a further £150  for the 
delays Mr M suffered during the claim.  
Having reviewed  this file in full Im going  to recommend that UKI increase  its compensation 
award and pay Mr M a total of £500 for the distress and inconvenience this whole episode  
has caused. This amount  should include any compensation that UKI have already paid. I 
understand Mr M would like more. But even  though mistakes have been  made, and UKI 
have conducted a poor investigation, any increases  in premium are not due to how the claim 
was recorded. The incident happened mid-term, so would only have affected the premium at 
renewal in 2018.  And the error was rectified by UKI following Mr Ms complaint and before 
Mr M renewed. UKI have confirmed  that on its system the claim was recorded as non-fault  
from October 2018  onwards. But Mr M needs  to be aware  that a non-fault claim can also 
affect his premium which was always likely suffer some form of increase.
And as previously mentioned we have written to Mr M separately  about the other  policies he 
has. Issues  arising with these  policies cant form part of this complaint. But from the 
information we have,  it looks  like these policies remain unaffected. Although Id recommend  
Mr M direct any concerns about the premiums hes paid to these individual insurers  in the 
first instance. 
I feel that UKI had more than enough information from the beginning to progress this claim 
correctly. I think UKI have handled this poorly,  and this has caused  Mr M a lot of 
unnecessary distress. So UKI should  pay Mr M a total of £500, less any payments already 
made for the distress and inconvenience its caused.  
My final decision
UK Insurance Limited need to pay a total compensation of £500  (less any amount previously 
paid) to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Ref: DRN03764384Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0376438