K820x#14complaint
Ms D says TSB Bank plc (TSB)  have unfairly applied bank charges to her current account,  
which have caused  her financial difficulties. Ms D also says that she wasnt  able to access 
online banking, which meant payments  for her car insurance werent  made on time. 
background
Ms D has a current account with TSB. Ms D says that TSB have unfairly applied bank 
charges to her current account.  
Ms D was advised on 8 February 2019  that because a complaint about charges was dealt 
with by TSB in 2015, this service would only look at her complaint about charges applied  
from 17 February 2015 onwards. Ms D and TSB accepted this and so my decision  only 
relates to charges applied after this time. 
TSB also said that all charges applied to Ms Ds account from February 2015 onwards have 
been in line with the terms and conditions, and Banking Charges Guide agreed to when the 
account was opened in 2004. TSB also explained  that in 2018 when they became aware  of 
the problems Ms D was having with her current account, they took steps to help her. This 
included adding a fee-paying service  (Control) to her account free of charge to help her keep 
track of her spending,  and waiving some charges. Ms D was also given  information  about 
local charities that help people  with managing  finances.
Ms D complained to TSB in October 2018  saying  that as she hadnt had access  to online 
banking, this affected the payments she was able to make for her car insurance. TSB say 
that there  were no reported issues with personal  internet banking at the time, and they cant 
see that Ms D complained  to them about not being able to access her account online. 
The adjudicator found that TSB had acted fairly  and didnt recommend any compensation. 
Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators findings  saying that her finances  have spiralled  out of 
control, and the bank  charges are to blame  for this. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved, it 
has been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Ms D. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the adjudicators findings, 
and I wont be recommending TSB do anything more.
problems with online banking  affecting car insurance  payments
Ms D says she experienced  problems logging into her online account. Her complaint was 
made in October  2018 and she said the last few months I couldnt get on my online 
banking. Ms D says that she had to take out a bank loan to cover her car insurance 
payments because payments werent  made by direct debit as they should have been. She 
also says that this issue this wasnt sorted when she went in branch. 
TSB say they dont  have any records of Ms D raising a complaint with them  about  being 
unable to access online banking  before October  2018. They  also say they were no reported 
issues with their online banking system  at the time.
Ref: DRN01516682Ive looked at the account activity for Ms Ds current account in 2018.  Ive also checked the 
record of direct debit payments made  for Ms Ds car insurance for the five months  leading  up 
to October  2018. This shows that all direct  debits payments to Ms Ds insurer were returned 
unpaid, apart from one. 
There isnt enough  evidence for me to say that TSB were given the opportunity to investigate 
why Ms D was unable to access her online account  prior to October 2018. But I think Ms D 
would have had difficulty making her car insurance  payments even if she had accessed her 
online account. This is because Ms D didnt have enough money in her account to make  the 
payments, and I cant say that having access to her online account wouldve changed that. 
So I dont  think TSB has done anything wrong here.
charges and financial hardship
Ms D strongly believes that the charges applied to her account have been  unfair.  She says 
her personal  circumstances have been  made  worse  by having to cope with paying bank 
charges in addition to her everyday expenses.  
From review  of Ms Ds statements from February 2015, its clear  that Ms D has had some 
financial difficulties. Ive seen that her current  account has been continually overdrawn since 
this time. Ive also considered what Ms D has said about working  on a self-employed basis  
where income is unstable, and it can make it more  challenging to manage  the amount of 
money leftover at the end of each month.  
In 2009 the Supreme Court decided  that unauthorised overdraft charges (as some  of the
charges on Ms Ds account  were)  couldnt be challenged for being too high or excessive. 
The decision  was that these charges were part of the price a customer agrees to pay for 
using their account. I appreciate Ms D feels that the bank charges have added to her debt, 
but I cant comment on the amount of the charges as a court has decided that this cant  be 
challenged.
Ive seen that the charges  applied  by TSB have  been in line with the terms and conditions 
and Banking Charges  Guide for Ms Ds current account. This information is available  on 
TSBs website. As the charges been  applied correctly, I cant say that TSB have acted 
unfairly. 
Ive considered Ms Ds personal circumstances, and what shes told this service about the 
difficulties shes had with her finances  and TSB in recent times.  Theres  a responsibility  on 
banks to act positively and sympathetically  to customers  in financial difficulty.  
Ive seen that when TSB became aware of Ms Ds financial problems in January 2018,  they 
took positive steps to provide support. Ive taken on board Ms Ds comments  about Step 
Change being  unsuitable for her, as shes self  employed. When  giving  Ms D information  
about charities that could help I dont think TSB were advising on the most suitable option for 
Ms D.  
Ive seen that Ms D has been able to benefit from the other options provided by TSB,  
including the Control service  to avoid overdraft fees, and keep track of spending. They also 
agreed to waive  some  charges in January 2018, which they didnt have to do. I think  TSB 
have acted positively  and sympathetically here, so I wont be recommending that they do 
anything else. 
Ref: DRN01516683my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0151668