K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains Society  of Lloyds (SoL) has unfairly declined a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr K made a claim to SoL for damage  caused  to his car after it was stolen.
Mr K says he was asleep when someone  knocked  at his front door. They  then stole  the keys 
to the car while he was distracted. The thief got in the car and started the engine.  Mr K says 
he got on to the car to try and stop it being stolen. He was carried across  the road where the 
car stuck a wall before  being carried further  down the road and coming to a stop, when the 
car crashed into a fence and then a tree. Mr K says he was thrown  from the car and suffered 
serious injuries. The thief got away.
SoL declined  the claim as it didnt believe Mr Ks version of events matched with the 
evidence it had been able to get from the police  and witnesses. It explained the policy allows 
it not to pay a claim where it believes the claim to be false, fraudulent or exaggerated.
SoL said the police  report  had recorded  the incident  as a road traffic accident rather  than a 
theft, with Mr K being noted as the driver. The witness statements taken by the police, also 
didnt mention anyone else being around  at the time of the theft and one of them  specifically 
mentioned noticing the windscreen wipers  of the car being  on and its engine  running a short 
time before the alleged theft.
Mr K didnt agree with SoLs decision. He said the police report  was wrong.  He was 
unconscious at the time and then in a coma, so couldnt report  his version  of events until 
sometime later. He said he wasnt driving  the car and commented that none of the witnesses 
were able to say who was. Mr K also said that he hadnt been charged  by the police which  
he wouldve expected to be, if theyd  have thought he deliberately drove the car and caused  
damage.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think SoL had done anything wrong in 
declining the claim.  He said it was reasonable for SoL to rely on the police report  and the 
witness statements which dont suggest  that any other person was around at the time of the 
alleged theft.
The investigator had asked Mr K to explain  why someone had heard his car engine running,  
and the wipers going, a short time before the theft, when hed said hed been asleep.  
However, Mr K said he couldnt offer an explanation and now suffers from memory issues  as 
a result of his injuries. The investigator said that the policy  allows SoL to decline a claim 
where it has concerns  about the information  its been given, and he didnt think  it had acted 
unreasonably by doing so in this instance.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case. He reiterated that no witness saw him driving  the car and said no charges have been  
brought against him by the police. He believes SoL has failed  to prove he was driving the car 
and therefore  it should meet his claim. Mr K also provided medical evidence from his time in 
hospital, to support the severity of the injuries  he suffered.
The case  has come  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN04287772my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 11 May 2020.  I said I intended to reject  
the complaint,  for the following reasons:
Mr Ks policy  says it will provide cover for the theft of his car. However, it also says SoL can 
refuse to pay a claim where  it believes the claim or information provided is false, fraudulent  
or exaggerated. What I need to decide here is if SoL has acted fairly and reasonably  in 
refusing to pay the claim.
SoL has relied upon the police report from the attending officer  and witness  statements 
taken at the time.
Mr K hasnt been able to obtain a copy of these reports from the police and has relied on 
what hes been told about them by SoL and our investigator. Im also unable to release  these  
reports to Mr K as they have been provided to this service in confidence.  Ill therefore  
summarise the information  contained within them that Ive relied upon in this decision, so 
Mr K has a chance to provide any further  comments hed like to make.
Mr K has said the police report, which records  him as the driver is wrong,  he was 
unconscious at the scene  and wasnt able to give his version of events at the time.
I realise Mr K suffered serious  injuries as a result of what happened. And, having seen the 
details of his treatment at the scene and hospital  admission  notes,  I accept he wasnt able to 
speak at the time. Mr K says he did approach the police  later,  but he hasnt provided  any 
evidence of the statement he gave. The police also dont appear to have altered their 
records of this incident. SoL requested  the report from the police quite some months after 
the incident and after when Mr K said he spoke to them. It also spoke directly  with the 
attending officer in charge.
When SoL spoke with the Police and obtained  their report, SoL werent told that any of the 
details were incorrect or had now changed since discussing  the incident  with Mr K. The 
report and witness statements have been released  to SoL and the attending officer  in charge 
confirmed the incident was not going  to be reclassified as a theft.  Based  on this, I dont think 
its unreasonable for SoL to rely on the information  provided in the police report.
Mr K has said that none of the witnesses can confirm who was driving  the car and points out 
that there  was a delay in one of the witnesses getting to the scene so they may not have  
seen someone running away. Because of this he believes SoL have acted unreasonably by 
using the witness  statements  to conclude that he was the only person around at the time.
Ive read the statements  the witnesses provided  to the police. One of the witnesses,  said 
they were outside  their property around 30 minutes before the incident and recalls hearing  
the engine of the car running  and seeing wipers  going. They recall thinking  it was strange 
the wipers were going as it wasnt raining. They said because of glare they couldnt see who 
was in the drivers  seat but confirmed there was no one else around or in the vicinity of the 
car at that time. They then explain they went back into their house and was unaware of what  
happened after until they were told later in the day.
Mr K argues  that this must have been  the thief they saw, as he was unfamiliar with the car 
and therefore  most  likely activated  the wipers. But this cant be the case as the witness  
Ref: DRN04287773mentioned they saw this happen about 30 minutes  before  the incident took place and they 
had returned indoors  and were unaware  of what later happened. I think  its unlikely that the 
thief would  have waited around  for 30 minutes after they started the engine, before stealing  
the car.
Im mindful of the serious nature of the injuries Mr K suffered and that hes said he now 
suffers from memory issues. So, he cant now provide  an explanation as to why someone 
may have  seen and heard  these things,  at a time when  he has said he was sleeping. 
However, the witness statement is inconsistent with Mr Ks version  of events, so I dont think 
its unreasonable for SoL to take this into account.
The witness  who was first on the scene and attended to Mr K said in their statement there 
was around ten seconds between hearing the final impact and when they had sight  of the 
scene. They say they didnt hear any footsteps or see anyone around the car or running  
away from it. They clarify that when they got nearer  to the car, they saw Mr K on the floor 
next to it.
Mr K argues  that there was time for the thief to get away before the witness had sight  of the 
scene. Ive thought about  this but Im mindful it was a very short  time before the witness had 
site of the crash scene  and given the severe damage to the car, I think its more likely than 
not the driver would have also suffered an injury. I think its unlikely they would have been 
able to get out of the car and flee the scene without being noticed in such a short  space of 
time. So, the fact the witness says they didnt see or hear anyone  else is relevant here.
Mr K said in his initial response to SoL that he had witnesses who could confirm  he wasnt 
the driver  of the car and who could confirm his version of events. However, Mr K hasnt been 
able to provide  any further information about these witnesses or their version of events. Im 
therefore unable  to consider it further here.
Overall having considered  everything, given Mr Ks version of what  happened and the 
evidence available, I dont  think SoL has acted unfairly or unreasonably for the reasons 
given. So, Im not intending to interfere with its decision  not to pay Mr Ks claim.
SoL has said it will consider any further information Mr K may like to provide, which  I think is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint  against Society of Lloyds.
responses to my provisional  decision
SoL responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing  further to add.
It was confirmed Mr K had received my provisional decision but despite reminders, he did 
not provide any response to it.
Ref: DRN04287774my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as neither party  has 
brought forward anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to change  my provisional  
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Ks complaint  against Society  of Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0428777