K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains Vanquis Bank Limited  has recorded incorrect  information on her credit file. 
background
Miss L had a credit card account  with Vanquis. In 2016 she fell into financial difficulties when 
her partner became  unwell. She was sent a default  notice  and she subsequently agreed, 
through a debt collection agency working  on behalf  of Vanquis, to pay £100 a month. 
In 2016 Miss L missed  a payment and she agreed a new repayment arrangement of £200  a 
month. But over the coming months  Miss Ls partner became worse and she needed  to 
provide additional care. And this made meeting  her commitments more difficult. Because  of 
this Miss L missed repayments in January and February 2017. The agency wrote  to Miss L 
about her arrears and a new payment  arrangement of £70 a month was agreed as she was 
struggling to meet the previous amount. 
Miss L later became aware  missed  payments were being recorded  on her credit  file despite 
her meeting  the £70 a month she agreed to. She complained to Vanquis as she didnt think  
this was right as she had only missed  two payments. Vanquis didnt uphold  the complaint as 
it said the account was in arrears. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He found  that it was right for 
Vanquis to record information  as Miss L had missed  payments. And although he found it 
should have started  recording information earlier this didnt have an overall impact on the 
credit file. Miss L disagrees and has asked for the matter to be reviewed. She says her credit 
file should only have shown the two missed payments  and shouldnt  be recording continued 
arrears on the account. She complains says this has impacted her ability to get credit and 
had she known she would have taken steps to borrow money or get a second job to repay 
the arrears. 
The balance with Vanquis has now been cleared.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 February  2019 explaining why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. I said:
Although I have only summarised  the background and arguments  above, I would like to 
reassure Miss L and Vanquis that I have read and considered everything provided. 
Where a lender  is recording information on a credit file, that information  should be an 
accurate reflection of the account history. We have asked for explanations from Vanquis as 
to why its recording arrears during the period Miss L was making  the agreed repayments  of 
£70 a month. It said any agreement with the collection  agent isnt an agreement with it and if 
Miss L was paying less than the agreed amount the arrears wouldnt be cleared and late 
payments will be shown.  
This debt originated from a credit card. Vanquis sent Miss L a default  notice, but the 
account, as far as I can see, was never defaulted  as Miss L came to a payment arrangement 
regarding the arrears. I also cant see there has been any modification to the credit  
agreement itself. I therefore dont agree that Miss L was contractually obliged  to pay £100 a 
month. 
Ref: DRN03284122Vanquis appointed a collection agent to act on its behalf with regard to this debt.  Im satisfied 
that any agreement  for repayments with the agent  was an agreement  with Vanquis. Miss L 
missed two repayments, for January and February. And its right for this to be recorded  on 
her credit history  although it actually isnt. To be correct arrears  of £200 should  be showing 
for January and February  2017  the status being 1 then 2. 
Miss L then agreed  a repayment arrangement with the collection agent for £70 a month, with 
the first payment due and paid, albeit  a few days late, in March 2017. But this isnt recorded  
on the credit  file although there is a £70 reduction of the outstanding balance.  Miss L 
continued to pay £70 a month until the balance was cleared. The credit  file shows Miss L 
was in an arrangement. It also showed  the monthly payment was £70. 
But in addition to that Vanquis  recorded an increased status  indicating  the arrears were 
building up. I dont agree  that was a correct reflection of the account  once a new 
agreement was reached that is the basis on which any arrears should be recorded. So the 
credit record  should  either have  stayed at status  2  as Miss L had missed two repayments  
until such time as the monthly repayment  started to impact that, or, the status should have 
reverted back to zero once a new agreement had been reached.  My understanding  of credit 
reference agencies  is that either of these would be a correct  reflection of the how the 
account was run. 
I accept that the incorrect recording of information  might have impacted Miss Ls ability to 
gain credit. But I do need to consider that any prospective lender would have seen  that she 
was in an agreed payment arrangement, which of itself might  be a factor  in any lending 
decision. If Miss L believes she has been turned down for credit because  of the way Vanquis 
recorded her repayments, then I will need specific evidence showing this  that is, I will need 
to see evidence showing that lenders have turned down applications for just this reason. 
Miss L has been asking  for this information  to be put right for some time. And I can 
understand why discovering her credit  file was wrong would have caused  some concern, for 
which she should be fairly compensated. 
how Vanquis should put this right
As I have found Vanquis has recorded  incorrect information about how Miss Ls account with 
it was run, it needs  to put that right. I dont know what impact  either  of the correct ways of 
recording the information will have  on Miss L. I leave it to her to choose  one of the below 
options and ask that she let me know which in response to this provisional decision. With 
that in mind I require  Vanquis to:
Record a missed payment of £200 for both January and February 2017 and show 
that from March 2017 the payment amount is £70, and either
oRecord the account status as 2 to reflect the two missed  payments until such 
time as the £70 monthly repayments started to reduce the balance to below 
the two missed payments. The account  status should then be reflected 
accordingly, or
oRecord the account status as 0 from March 2017 to reflect a new payment 
arrangement had been agreed which was being met. 
As mentioned above, I think Miss L would have found the incorrect  information being  
recorded worrying and she has been trying to get this matter put right for some  time. As a 
Ref: DRN03284123reflection of the inconvenience this has caused  I also require Vanquis to pay Miss L £100  
compensation.
Miss L accepted my provisional findings but she didnt let me know which of the options she 
selected. Vanquis confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision  but hasnt provided anything  
further for my consideration.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has any further evidence or arguments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to alter my provisional findings. Im satisfied Vanquis has recorded incorrect 
information against Miss Ls credit history and it needs to amend that. 
how Vanquis should put this right
As I have found Vanquis has recorded  incorrect information about how Miss Ls account with 
it was run, it needs  to put that right. I dont know what impact  either  of the correct ways of 
recording the information will have  on Miss L. I leave it to her to choose  one of the below 
options. With that in mind  I require Vanquis to:
Record a missed payment of £200 for both January and February 2017 and show 
that from March 2017 the payment amount is £70, and either
oRecord the account status as 2 to reflect the two missed  payments until such 
time as the £70 monthly repayments started to reduce the balance to below 
the two missed payments. The account  status should then be reflected 
accordingly, or
oRecord the account status as 0 from March 2017 to reflect a new payment 
arrangement had been agreed which was being met. 
As mentioned above, I think Miss L would have found the incorrect  information being  
recorded worrying and she has been trying to get this matter put right for some  time. As a 
reflection of the inconvenience this has caused  I also require Vanquis to pay Miss L £100  
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I uphold Miss Ls complaint. I require Vanquis Bank Limited to put 
matters right as set out above. Miss L will need  to let us and/or Vanquis know which  of the 
options she has chosen. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0328412