K820x#14complaint
Ms F and Mrs T complain  about the way Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc dealt with two 
buildings insurance  claims. For ease  Ill only refer to Ms F throughout.
background
The first claim  arose because of weather conditions in June and July 2017. Ms F says this 
caused some internal  damage due to water ingress. She says there was one day in 
particular of storm conditions that caused  major  flooding 8 miles from her property. 
The second  claim  arose after a period of snowfall in December 2017 and January 2018.  
Apparently, snow  covered  some air vents  causing condensation to form internally damaging 
lower beams  and the hall below. And its also said that the snow seeped behind  some lead 
flashing when  it started  to thaw, again causing  internal damage. Ms F wanted RSA to pay 
around £10,000 for external repairs.
While RSA covered internal damage and some  external work as accidental damage,  it didnt 
pay for external  repairs on the basis that there were no storm conditions  at the time of the 
damage. And for the specific day Ms F had identified the closest weather station to her 
property had indicated  average wind speeds and low volume of rain. 
On the second  claim (snow related) RSA didnt think the snowfall was excessive based  on 
the photographs Ms F had provided. RSA said the thaw seeping behind  the lead flashing  
only highlighted an existing fault and wasnt the cause. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She explained  her view that 
there were no storm conditions around the time of the first claim. For the second claim she 
reached a similar conclusion that there werent any storm  conditions.  She didnt  think the 
amount of snow visible could reasonably constitute an unusual amount. But she continued to 
explain that even  if the snow amounted to storm conditions, she wasnt satisfied the volume 
of snow caused  damage.  She agreed  with RSA that the breach in the lead flashing allowed 
water to seep in. 
Ms F said she had no further information to send about the first claim. On the second  claim 
she said snowfall in early  December, Christmas and the end of February  / beginning of 
March needed  to be fully considered.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her mind. She said the photographs provided 
had already been considered and the second  claim had been raised in December 2017, so 
she had considered the relevant dates.  And in response to video footage dated 17 
December, the investigator said the timber was noted to be dry when inspected a couple of 
months later and so there was nothing to repair. But in any case, she wasnt  persuaded the 
snow caused external  damage.
Ms F continued to disagree with the investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to decide her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And while weve received a lot of 
Ref: DRN05386312information, I wont be addressing every  single point. Rather Ill focus  on the crux of the 
complaint and whether it was fair for RSA to decline cover for the external repairs based  on 
there being no storm.
We have a long-established approach to complaints  about storm damage claims, which 
considers three main  questions;
Were there  storm conditions  on or around the date the problem  occurred?
Is the nature of the damage claimed consistent with a storm?
Was storm the main cause of the problem?
If the answer  to any of these is no then its unlikely  wed uphold  the complaint.
Like the investigator Ive checked the weather reports relative to the period of the first claim 
(data recorded from weather stations close to Ms Fs property) and there is no evidence  of 
winds or rainfall that could be considered storm conditions.  Weather  may have been  
inclement in so far as rainfall and moderate  gusts of wind but that isnt a storm and isnt 
covered by the insurance policy. 
Ive considered the weather reports relative to the period of the second  claim as well as the 
photographs provided. Neither  the reports nor photos show  wind or a volume  of snow  such 
that could reasonably be considered a storm. The snow covering as apparent in the photos 
was relatively light with parts of the roof visible. Snow had apparently collected in a gulley on 
the roof but that doesnt constitute  a storm. And Im satisfied from the expert  reports that the 
ingress of water during the thaw was at the point the lead flashing lap ended.  But theres  no 
evidence that the weather conditions were  storm related or caused any damage to the 
flashing.
In all the circumstances Im satisfied RSA acted fairly by not offering to cover any external 
repairs. Any issues that needed to be repaired were not a result  of storm damage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0538631