K821x#15complaint
Mr C complained about the advice by Professional Financial Services (PFS) to invest  in the 
Waste to Energy Partnership (WTEP) within his Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP). He 
believes the investment  was unsuitable for him and he has been  financially disadvantaged  
as a result.
Professional Financial Services (PFS)  is a dissolved partnership. The former partners of 
PFS are jointly and severally  liable for this complaint. During this complaint we have 
corresponded with one of PFSs former partners and his solicitors.  
background
Mr C set up a SIPP  in 2007. In May 2010, Mr C transferred funds  of £82,786 from two 
personal pensions  plans with Aviva into the SIPP. He took a tax-free  cash payment of 
£20,649 on 28 May 2010. On 11 August 2010,  Mr C invested the sum of £50,000  into the 
WTEP.
Mr C complained to PFS, via his representatives,  in December  2017. He said the investment  
had been too high risk and not suitable  for him. PFS said he had referred his complaint 
outside the regulators time limits.
When Mr C referred  his complaint to this service, PFS didnt  consent  to us looking at the 
complaint. They didnt think it had been brought to us within the relevant timescales.  An 
ombudsman looked  into the objection and decided that the complaint about the WTEP 
investment had been made within time and we could consider it.
Our investigator subsequently  considered the merits of Mr Cs complaint and found that :
The sales file had not been  provided  but she had requested  information  from the 
SIPP provider which showed PFS likely recommended the investment
WTEP was an Unregulated  Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS)  which was high 
risk and not suitable for Mr C given his attitude to risk, investment experience and 
that he had already  invested a large  amount into another UCIS three  years  earlier.
PFS should compensate Mr C.
Mr C accepted the investigators view. PFSs  former partner replied and said:
He tried to assist by providing the original  sales file, but it couldnt  be traced. 
He didnt give the initial advice to Mr C. He had met with Mr C in 2013 to discuss his 
pension and other assets after the original adviser  (another former partner of PFS) 
could no longer give advice. 
He had gone through the investment  prospectus  with Mr C and he had confirmed  to 
him he understood the illiquid nature and risks of the investment.  Mr C told him he 
saw renewable energy as an opportunity for growth and returns  and the PFS partner 
who had originally advised him was a close friend,  so he didnt  think  he would  have 
been advised to go into a duff investment.  
Any complaint  correspondence should be sent to the partner  who had given the initial 
advice
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN04908782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that this complaint  should be upheld. 
The original  point of sale documentation couldnt be provided by PFS, but the SIPP  provider 
was able to provide some documents. Ive seen the SIPP application form from 2007, the 
transfer forms Mr C completed when he transferred his Aviva  pensions to the SIPP in 2010 
and the forms he completed for the WTEP. The SIPP  application form shows  PFS as the 
adviser. On the transfer form three years later Mr C had to confirm whether he had received 
advice. He ticked a box to say he had received advice and the firm named again was PFS. 
And the WTEP forms also record  PFS as the financial adviser.  So Im satisfied 
Mr C was advised by PFS to invest into the investment through  his SIPP.
UCIS investments arent suitable for most investors  and should in any event only form a very 
small part of someones portfolio. The regulator has been clear on this and issued good and 
bad practice about  the promotion and advice on UCIS in June 2010. Based on what  we 
know about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, its clear he didnt have the investment 
experience, attitude  to risk or capacity for loss to take on such a non-standard and specialist 
investment, particularly as he had already  invested £100,000 three years earlier into another 
UCIS which meant other  than cash,  his entire  SIPP only included UCIS investments.  PFS 
shouldnt have recommended Mr C to invest into WTEP as it was clearly  not in is best 
interest.
I appreciate that PFSs former partner says when he talked to Mr C in 2013 he said he 
understood the risks and thought the investment was a good idea. This might have been the 
case and the attraction  in UCIS  for many customers lies in the advertised returns. But UCIS 
are complex and only suitable  for the most  experienced investors.  Mr C likely didnt fully 
understand all the risks and in any event -as explained above- he didnt have the capacity to 
lose such a large portion  of his retirement  provision, particularly  as he was already at 
retirement age by this point. It was PFSs responsibility to give Mr C suitable  advice which  
was in his best interest and I think they failed to do this here.
I do appreciate that it was another former  partner  of PFS who gave this advice and not the 
partner we have  been corresponding with. And I understand that he feels  its unfair hes 
been left dealing with claims arising out of PFSs  business. However,  Mr C has a valid claim 
against PFSs partners  and we have been corresponding with the complaint contact person 
as recorded with the regulator. He can share a copy of this decision with his former partner if 
he wishes to do so.
Mr C should be compensated as quickly  as possible. How the former partners organise this 
is down to them. 
putting things right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as close  as possible
into the position he would probably be in now if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what he
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr C's circumstances  and objectives when  he invested.
Ref: DRN04908783To compensate Mr C fairly PFS should:
Compare the performance of Mr C's WTEP investment with the following benchmark:
For half of the investment:  FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index 
For the other  half: Average rate from fixed rate bonds
from (start date): date of investment 
to (end date): date of this final decision
If the fair value is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation
is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If there is a loss, PFS should pay it into Mr C's pension plan, to increase its value by
the amount of the compensation. PFSs payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  PFS shouldnt  pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If PFS are unable to pay the compensation into Mr C's pension plan, PFS should  pay
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual marginal rate of tax 
in retirement-presumed  to be 20%.
However, if Mr C would have been  able to take a tax-free lump  sum from these 
funds, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according 
to Mr Cs income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional 
reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately  reflects this. 
In addition, PFS should pay Mr C £250  for the trouble and upset caused  by the
disruption to his retirement  planning.  This should be paid to him directly.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
PFS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them  
Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PFS consider that they are required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr C how
much they have taken  off. They should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
Ref: DRN04908784This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. PFS should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If PFS is unable to purchase the investment the actual  value  should  be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculation. PFS may wish to require that Mr C provides an undertaking to
pay PFS any amount  he may receive  from the investment  in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. PFS will need to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  PFS should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if PFS total all those payments  and deduct  that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted income  with some growth accepting a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It does not mean  that Mr C 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Further information  
Ref: DRN04908785The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted  household interest  rates and then clicking on the related link to their
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database , clicking 
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted  household  interest rates / Deposit rates  - Fixed 
rate bonds  / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting  the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available  on our website. It can be found 
by typing  compensation for investment complaints into the search  bar on 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Professional Financial Services to compensate Mr C as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 January 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0490878