K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G). Hes concerned 
about his Personal Pension Plan (PPP) while it was with L&G.
background
Mr B was a member of an Occupational  Pension Scheme (OPS). Following advice he 
received in 1991 from a financial adviser Ill refer to as Adviser J, Mr Bs OPS benefits  were 
transferred to a PPP with L&G.
In April 2011 Mr B transferred his PPP away from L&G to another  pension  provider.
In 2019 Mr B contacted L&G to raise concerns about the sale of his PPP and its subsequent 
performance. Mr B complained the final value of his PPP didnt reflect what  he was advised 
it would  when he received advice in 1991.
L&G responded to Mr Bs concerns and in summary said:
Mr Bs PPP application form confirmed his PPP was sold by Adviser  J who also 
provided him with advice  at the time. L&G only acted on the instruction it received 
from Adviser J
Adviser J was responsible for explaining the rationale for any information provided  to 
Mr B at the time of its advice
although it didnt  have a copy of any illustration  provided to Mr B in 1991 it explained 
that all providers at the time wouldve used standard growth rates in illustrations laid 
down by the regulator at the time
it was Adviser Js responsibility to explain the growth rates shown  in illustrations 
werent guaranteed rates of return
Mr B responded to L&G saying he didnt agree L&G hadnt provided any financial advice or 
sold his PPP in 1991. Mr B explained  that the estimated final value of his PPP as provided  at 
the point of sale greatly influenced his decision to transfer his OPS to a PPP with L&G.  And 
the fact his PPP had failed to achieve  the £600,000  value projected indicated  it had been 
mismanaged and mis-sold. Mr B asked  L&G to provide a copy of the illustration he was 
provided with when his PPP was sold along  with annual statements showing his projected 
final PPP value.
L&G responded to Mr B and explained  that Mr Bs PPP had been  invested in its With Profits  
Fund and growth  depended on the returns and profits made on the Funds  investment.  L&G 
said that while Mr Bs PPP was with it UK and global stock markets  had performed poorly  
and this had negatively impacted returns for the fund Mr B was invested in. L&G reiterated  it 
hadnt sold Mr Bs PPP and because of this didnt have a copy  of the original illustration Mr B 
said hed been  provided with. However it enclosed copies of bonus statements covering 
2003 and 2009 and confirmed there  were  no statements that included fund projections at his 
retirement date.
Unhappy with L&Gs response Mr B referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the matter and said she didnt think  L&G had done 
anything wrong. She said Adviser J sold Mr Bs PPP so she didnt  think  L&G was 
responsible for the information Mr B was provided with at the time. She also said that while 
Ref: DRN02569752she understood Mr B was unhappy with the performance of his PPP there was nothing  to 
suggest L&G mis-sold his PPP or that the fund he was invested  in had been mis-managed.
Mr B disagreed. In summary he said he couldnt believe there was nothing wrong with his 
PPP and maintained hed lost a significant amount of money due to his PPP being  mis-sold 
and the fund he was invested  in being  mis-managed.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise that while Ive taken note of all 
the arguments made by both parties,  I have limited my response to the issues I consider  to 
be central to this complaint
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr B. I can appreciate  his strength of feeling 
regarding the issues hes raised about his PPP. Mr B clearly expected his PPP to achieve 
much higher  income  returns  than it has. However the disappointment Mr B feels while 
understandable doesnt  automatically mean L&G has done anything  wrong. 
I dont propose to go into the detail of how Mr Bs PPP works.  This has already been  
addressed by L&G and covered by our investigator  in her assessment. I do however think 
its worth  reiterating that Mr Bs PPP was invested  in L&Gs  With Profits  fund.  As Mr B is 
probably already  aware, the growth  achieved by an investment like his in a With Profits fund 
depends on the level of bonuses awarded  by the business, which  in turn depends on the 
underlying performance  of the assets  in the fund.  But as bonus rates  are not (and were not) 
guaranteed there was, and remains, the risk with this type of PPP that income levels and 
transfer values  could fall or be below what was originally expected. Indeed I note the annual  
statements for Mr Bs plan say projected  values arent guaranteed and that actual amounts 
paid out may be different. 
I appreciate Mr B has genuine  concerns  about the performance of his PPP but L&Gs bonus 
rates had to take into account  various factors; these included not just current or recent  
investment performance  but also how L&G expected  its With Profits  fund to perform in the 
future, as well as the funds liabilities in respect of any guaranteed benefits  applicable.  
Its also important to note that the amount of bonus declared for its With Profits  fund is a 
matter for L&Gs commercial discretion. And providers, like L&G, do have significant 
discretion about  how they operate this type of fund. 
But L&G is ultimately  accountable to the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) for the way in which it operates its With Profits  fund (in accordance  with its Principles 
and Practices of Financial  Management  document).  And the regulator monitors  the 
management of it. 
The FCAs  Principle 6 requires that firms  like L&G () must pay due regard  to the interests  
of its customers  and treat them fairly. The Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (COBS 20) 
also provides specific  rules and guidance for firms on the operation of these funds. Our 
service has not been advised that the regulator has any concerns with the way L&G has 
Ref: DRN02569753managed its With Profits fund. Therefore I see no reason to interfere in L&Gs  commercial  
decision about the bonuses paid on Mr Bs PPP and its resulting value. 
Again, I do appreciate Mr Bs concerns but hope my explanation around the FCA having 
oversight of L&Gs operation, will assure him that L&G couldnt simply do as it pleased while 
he was invested  in its With Profits fund.
As Mr B may understand, risk is intrinsic to any investment (including Mr Bs PPP);  and 
whilst its of course disappointing that Mr Bs fund didnt perform as well as hed hoped, that 
is simply a reflection of the investment decisions (based on reasonable assumptions relating  
to growth rates  being  achieved at the time) made and investment performance. Poor 
performance itself isnt evidence of mis-management or impropriety.
I havent seen  any persuasive evidence that L&G has acted unfairly or mismanaged its With 
Profits fund in the way Mr B has suggested.
Mr B has also said on several occasions that he considers L&G mis-sold his plan. He feels  
he was greatly misled when he transferred his OPS  to L&Gs  PPP regarding the level of 
return he could expect  when he came to take retirement benefits.  I dont  doubt  or 
underestimate Mr Bs strength of feeling  regarding  this but Im afraid  that based on the 
available evidence Im unable to conclude L&G is a fault in the way Mr B claims. 
Ive seen a copy  of the application form for Mr Bs PPP at the time it was sold and note that it 
was sold by Adviser J. Indeed Mr B appears  to be aware of this when he says:
it was [Adviser  J] who were the company involved with the switch originally.
L&G were  the provider of Mr Bs PPP in 1991. But it was Adviser J who in its capacity as Mr 
Bs financial advisor advised him to transfer  his OPS  to a PPP with L&G.  Because of this Im 
unable to conclude  L&G is responsible  for the concerns  Mr B has about the sale of his PPP 
or what he may have  been told at the time.  
Mr B has said that prior to transferring to L&G he was provided with an estimated final 
value of £600,000 for his PPP. Hes said this projection greatly  influenced his decision  to 
transfer to L&Gs PPP in the first place. Unfortunately  the original projection/illustration  Mr B 
says he was provided with isnt available. I dont doubt that Mr B has provided an honest 
recollection of what happened  when he was sold his PPP, but where the available evidence  
is incomplete I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities- in other words, 
what I consider is more likely to have happened  given  the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
I think its probable that Mr B was provided with illustrations or projections as part of the 
advice he received from Adviser J. But as Mr Bs advisers it was Adviser Js responsibility  to 
ensure Mr B fully understood the nature of the product being recommended  to him, the risks 
associated with it and that the appropriate context was provided for any growth rates  or 
projections given.  It wasnt L&Gs duty to explain these things to Mr B. Im also mindful  that 
Mr Bs says he was provided  with an estimated final value  and not a guaranteed  final 
value.  
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed but having carefully considered  everything  I have  
reached the same conclusion as our investigator  and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN02569754Its unfortunate the final value of Mr Bs PPP was so much lower than he was expecting but 
for the reasons Ive explained Im not persuaded L&G has done anything wrong in the way 
hes suggested. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0256975