K821x#15complaint
Mrs E has complained about pension advice she received from BlackStar Wealth 
Management Ltd in 2015. She was advised  to transfer four personal pensions  she held into 
a self investment  personal pension (SIPP). The funds were then divided and invested into 
Dolphin Capital and into a discretionary  managed portfolio  with Beaufort Securities.
Mrs E says that the advice was unsuitable  for her. She is represented in this complaint.
background
Mrs E held four personal pensions with a combined value of around £21,000. She worked in 
an administrative capacity with a firm that introduced her to BlackStar. Her employer was an 
unregulated introducer. A risk profile assessment and fact-find were completed,  probably by 
the introducer. Mrs E was recorded as having a medium/high attitude to risk. The fact-find 
set out that she was in her mid-thirties and married with a child.  She was in part-time 
employment with earnings of around  £11,000 per year. She had an outstanding mortgage  
and held no investments or savings.
The fact-find recorded that Mrs E held pensions worth around £21,000. She wanted  to 
consolidate these  plans and have more  control  and flexibility. She was said to be interested 
in investing in Dolphin as she had contact  with it every day. It was also noted that Mrs E had 
some experience of ISAs  but little other investment experience. She was categorised as a 
novice investor.
A financial planning report was prepared by BlackStar. It recommended  the transfer  of all 
existing pensions into a SIPP  and investment of £12,000 in Dolphin Trust and the balance 
with Beaufort  Securities as discretionary fund manager. The report  included  a warning that 
investing a large  portion of a pension in a single  asset was risky. But the proposed portfolio 
was to invest 58 per cent with Dolphin  and 42 per cent with Beaufort. 
The SIPP cost around £500 to set up and BlackStars fee was £1,400.
Mrs E complained about the advice in 2017. Her representative said, in summary, although 
Mrs E worked for the unregulated introducer she didnt have investment experience and it 
questioned the role of the introducer. The SIPP resulted in higher charges and was not 
suitable for a retail  client like Mrs E. Although the report noted  that Mrs E had no capacity for 
loss and was a novice investor,  it recommended investment in Dolphin, which  was high risk, 
and into the Beaufort DFM which had then been  suspended.
In response, Blackstar said that Mrs E had already decided to invest  in Dolphin and wanted 
more flexibility and control over her pension. A risk assessment tool had confirmed her 
attitude to risk as medium/high. Mrs E had confirmed that she worked with the Dolphin 
product on a daily basis and was fully aware  of it. There was full disclosure of the nature of 
the investments  and the report contained  risk warnings. Beaufort may not have followed the 
investment mandate it was given. BlackStar  said that it had to take into account the 
predetermined objective of investing in non mainstream Dolphin Capital loan notes  not to 
do so wouldve been unsuitable advice.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by an adjudicator. He 
decided that the complaint should be upheld.  He said that a transfer like this had to take into 
account the suitability of the intended investments. The Dolphin investment  was unregulated 
Ref: DRN02754722and illiquid. The Dolphin  loan notes relied  upon tax breaks in Germany which  could be 
withdrawn. It was a high risk investment. But, in addition, investing 58 per cent of the 
pension was an over concentration  in one asset.  He said that this investment was clearly 
unsuitable.
The adjudicator didnt consider that the proposed investment with Beaufort Securities was 
unsuitable. He noted that the investment has since failed and the Financial  Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is accepting claims.  So he excluded  this element of the 
investment from the redress.  He went on to say that BlackStar should refund its fees and 
pay five years of SIPP fees as the Dolphin loan notes are illiquid.
The adjudicator set out how redress should  be calculated  and said that BlackStar  should  pay 
Mrs E £300  for the distress and inconvenience  she had suffered.
BlackStar didnt agree.  It also suggested that the redress method proposed may mean  that 
Mrs E will lose out if the Dolphin loan notes mature due to the fees payable to her 
representative.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, I agree with the 
adjudicator and broadly with his reasoning. I uphold this complaint.
Mrs E was not an experienced investor. She appears to have had some insight into the 
Dolphin investment  as she worked  in a business  which had daily dealings with it. But she 
was not an expert,  there is no suggestion  that she had any financial qualification and it 
seems that she worked in an administrative role. She was taking advice  from professional 
advisers and entitled to rely on the advice she was given. 
Even if Mrs E had decided to invest in Dolphin, she was entitled to advice on the suitability of 
the investment.  BlackStar was obliged to act in her best interest. Although it set out the 
nature of the Dolphin  investment and also set out some of the risks attached to it, I think  that 
it should have  gone further and advised  that the Dolphin investment was unsuitable for her. 
Although illiquidity  in itself may not have been an issue, given Mrs Es age and the time until 
she could take any benefits, Dolphin was a relatively  new investment with no established 
track record. And it was unregulated. BlackStar should certainly not have  advised  that 58 per 
cent of the pension should be invested  in this one asset. That gave rise to a clear lack of 
diversification and increased the risk being taken. 
So I agree with the adjudicator and uphold this part of the complaint. I also agree that 
BlackStar should refund its fees and reimburse  for five years worth  of SIPP  fees. The SIPP  
was arranged principally  to allow the Dolphin investment  and so its fair that these  costs  
should be refunded.
I also agree  that any losses  arising from the Beaufort investment should be considered 
separately. Beaufort was regulated in its own right and I understand that the FSCS is 
considering complaints about it.
Ref: DRN02754723Ive noted what  BlackStar  has said in response  to the view but I dont agree that this should  
mean that the redress method should be changed.  Any commercial value of the Dolphin 
investment before maturity must depend  on the likelihood of payment being made at maturity 
and I cant speculate about that. And the charging  structure Mrs E has agreed  with her 
representatives is a matter for them.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs E should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs E would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs E's circumstances  and objectives when she invested. 
what should  BlackStar do?
To compensate Mrs E fairly,  BlackStar  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs E's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
BlackStar should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BlackStar should  pay into Mrs E's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If BlackStar  is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs E's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs E's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mrs E is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs E would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs E £300 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  and the impact  on her 
retirement planning.
Repay the advisers  fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the 
fees were paid to the date of the settlement. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value 
Ref: DRN02754724can be offset against the fees with interest.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BlackStar  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs E how much has been taken off. BlackStar should give Mrs E a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Dolphin  
Capital  
Loan  Notesstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. BlackStar should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If BlackStar  is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. BlackStar may require that Mrs E provides an undertaking 
to pay BlackStar any amount she may receive  from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. BlackStar  will need  to meet  any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs E wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
Ref: DRN02754725fair measure  for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs E's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that BlackStar  Wealth Management Limited should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
BlackStar Wealth Management Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mrs E in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs E either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
 ..
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0275472