K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a life and critical illness 
policy to protect her mortgage. She says she wasnt  made aware she could purchase the 
(mandatory) life cover elsewhere, or that the critical illness element of the cover was 
optional.
background
In 2003 Miss T took out the decreasing term policy providing life and critical illness cover of 
£27,900 for a 23 year term, to protect a mortgage. In late 2018 she made a complaint about 
the policy to RBS, saying, in short,  that she hadnt  been fully informed about her options  
concerning protection of the mortgage.
RBS didnt uphold  the complaint. It said:
At the time, life cover was a condition of borrowing.
The mortgage offer made clear the cover didnt need to be provided  by RBS.
The sale was not advised.
Miss T was sent cancellation rights.
There was no evidence shed  been misled about  the protection  requirements. 
Miss T referred  the complaint to this service,  where our investigator reached  broadly the 
same conclusion as RBS. He felt there  was no evidence that Miss T had been  told she had 
to take out anything other than life cover.  
Miss T didnt agree with the investigators view. She felt, in brief,  that the documentation 
didnt support her having been made aware  of what her options  were. She particularly noted 
the lack of her signature on any document to show that these options had been put to her. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
Its clear that Miss T has strong feelings about  RBS actions. Shes  provided  detailed 
submissions, which Ive read and considered in their entirety. However,  I trust she wont take 
the fact that my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues,  and that theyre 
expressed in less detail,  as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  
point raised in detail,  but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
Miss Ts complaint centres upon  what she says she wasnt told by the adviser   that while  
life cover did have to be taken out, there  wasnt any requirement that it be purchased  from 
RBS, or, further, that critical illness cover be purchased at all. 
Ref: DRN02341912I accept that the documents from the time of the sale didnt explicitly set out that Miss T had 
the option of purchasing life cover  elsewhere, or of not purchasing critical illness  at all. But 
equally, the documentation  doesnt  indicate that she had to buy the cover from RBS or had 
to buy critical  illness.   
Given her circumstances  at the time of the sale, it was prudent for life and critical illness  
cover to be put in place.  Whether she was actually  advised or not (and I note that RBS says 
she wasnt) I would generally expect this type of cover to be suggested  to someone taking 
out new borrowing. 
So, while I have no reason to doubt Miss Ts recollections, I dont think  theres enough 
evidence to support  a finding that RBS acted incorrectly in providing  her with cover  for her 
mortgage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0234191