K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc didnt do enough to help him when he fell victim to a 
scam. He feels Lloyds could have done more to prevent the payment going through,  or to 
recover the money from the scammer.
background
On 3 November  2018 Mr N made a payment of £350 from his Lloyds current  account to buy 
a flight ticket from a company he had found  online.  On 19 December 2018  he made another 
payment of £400  for another  ticket.
When he was then unable  to get in contact with the company hed been dealing  with, Mr N 
realised that hed actually made the payment to a scammer. Mr N contacted his bank, 
Lloyds, on 22 December  2018 to tell them what had happened, and to see if there was 
anything they could do to help. Lloyds  contacted  the scammers bank straight away  to see if 
any of Mr Ns money could be retrieved. But the scammers bank confirmed that no money  
remained from Mr Ns transactions.
Mr N was unhappy with how Lloyds handled  things, so he referred his complaint to us. One 
of our adjudicators looked at what had happened, he explained to Mr N that he felt Lloyds 
had done all they could to try and help, so he didnt  think they needed to do anything more.
Mr N disagreed; he says Lloyds knew that the financial institution he was sending  the money 
to was being used for fraudulent purposes, and feels they should  have  taken steps to stop or 
recover the payment  - either directly  or through the police.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably  in allowing the transfers  to leave 
Mr Ns account. And I think it took appropriate  steps  to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So unfortunately,  in the circumstances,  I dont  think  it needs to reimburse  
Mr N with the £750 he lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.   When Mr N made the payments, he didnt know  he 
was dealing with a scammer,  so he sent the money in good faith. This means that  at the 
time  he wanted  the payments to go ahead and authorised them  to be made. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
Ref: DRN03878502the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and   
regulated firms  like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something  recognised  
by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report 
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances );
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr N when he made the payments totalling £750, or whether  it should  have  done  more than 
it did. 
But having  thought carefully about  this, I dont  think there was anything  unusual about the 
payments that would have suggested  to Lloyds that Mr N was being  scammed. Mr Ns 
account had only been in use for a few months  prior to the first scam  payment, and in that 
time he had made faster payments before and made a much larger payment than either  of 
the scam  payments, so the amount and type of the payments that Mr N made doesnt look 
like it was particularly out of character for him. So I dont think  either  of them  was sufficiently 
suspicious to indicate to Lloyds that they werent legitimate. And in the circumstances, I dont 
think Lloyds did anything  wrong by following the instructions Mr N gave and sending the 
money.
Mr N has said that Lloyds  told him they were aware that the bank he sent the money to was 
being used for fraud. Ive listened  to the calls Mr N had with Lloyds and theres  nothing  in 
Ref: DRN03878503those calls to suggest they said this to him on the phone at the time, I appreciate  though that 
Mr N may have  been told something  along these lines in branch. However, while  a staff 
member may hold an opinion about  which banks are targeted  more by fraudsters,  that 
doesnt mean its the case. Not every  account  held there is going to be fraudulent nor is 
every payment made  to that financial institution  going to be fraudulent.  So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to have followed Mr Ns payment instruction. Particularly  as there  
was nothing else to suggest that the payment might be suspicious.   
And when  Mr N told Lloyds that he had been scammed, they acted quickly,  contacting  the 
scammers bank  straightaway to see if any of Mr Ns money was still in the receiving account 
and could be retrieved.  Unfortunately, by that time, all of Mr Ns money had gone. And any 
further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the scammers account  
werent the responsibility of Lloyds, as it wouldnt have unrestricted  access  to that 
information. So contacting the scammers bank to try and retrieve his money was all Lloyds 
could do to help Mr N at that stage.
Its unfortunate that Mr N has lost out, and I understand that this whole experience  will have 
been hugely upsetting  for him. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that 
Lloyds should  have done more to prevent Mr N losing his money. I cant  hold Lloyds 
responsible for Mr N having  fallen victim to a scam,  and I think they did all they could to help 
him once  they knew what had happened.  So I dont  think it would be fair to ask Lloyds  to 
compensate Mr N for his loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0387850