K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
Mr D took out five loans  from Mr Lender between March 2014 and August 2014. Mr D repaid 
all the loans he had with Mr Lender. A summary of Mr Ds borrowing from Mr Lender is as 
follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
120 March 2014 450 31 March 2014
231 March 2014 700 30 May 2014
330 May 2014 750 30 June 2014
430 June 2014 750 29 August 2014
529 August 2014 1,000 29 November 2014
Mr D says that he was in financial difficulty and reliant on this sort of borrowing. He wants a 
refund of all interest  and charges,  plus interest.  Mr D also wants any negative information 
removed from his credit file.
In response to Mr Ds complaint, Mr Lender  offered to refund interest he paid in relation  to 
loan five. Mr D didnt  accept that. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ds complaint. She said that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
given Mr D loans two to five. The adjudicator set out what  Mr Lender should do to put 
matters right. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It asked  what further checks  it 
should have carried  out and said that its offer in relation to loan five was fair. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN09882992But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance  and later 
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Before lending to Mr D, Mr Lender asked him about  his income and expenditure and 
calculated his disposable income.  It also carried out credit checks. I think  that Mr Lenders 
checks were proportionate before loan one. Give the amount of the loan, what was apparent 
about Mr Ds circumstances at the time and his history with Mr Lender at that point, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr D for the amount of information 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt  anything in the information 
Mr D provided  or the information Mr Lender should have been aware of, which meant it 
would have been proportionate for Mr Lender to start verifying  what Mr D said about his 
financial circumstances. 
I think that changed by loan two. Thats because the repayment  of loan two represented a 
significant proportion  of Mr Ds income.  In those circumstances, there  was a significant risk 
that Mr D wouldnt be able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow  again.  
So I think its unlikely that Mr D wouldve been  able to sustainably meet his repayments  for 
this loan and any subsequent loans.  
Ref: DRN09882993Mr Lender has asked  what checks it should  have carried out. I think  that because the 
repayment of loan two was a significant proportion of Mr Ds income, proportionate checks 
are likely to have established a much  fuller picture  of Mr Ds financial position.  I think  
proportionate checks here wouldve meant that Mr Lender took steps to verify the 
information Mr D provided about  his financial situation.  
As Mr Lender doesnt appear to have carried out proportionate and sufficient checks, I cant 
say for sure what it wouldve found  out had it taken  steps to verify Mr Ds true situation. Mr D  
has provided this service with evidence  of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for the loans. So Ive been able to get a picture of what his financial circumstances were  like. 
Of course,  I accept that this isnt perfect, as different checks show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mr D has now provided, it doesnt mean that 
it wouldve  shown up in any checks that Mr Lender  might have carried  out. But the 
information Mr D has provided  is the best indication I have  of what his financial 
circumstances were  at the relevant time. In the absence of anything  else,  I think its 
reasonable to rely on it.
Ive seen that before loan two, Mr Ds income  was around £2,000, which  was less than the 
amount Mr Lender had recorded. I think proportionate checks  would likely have shown that 
Mr D was having problems managing  his money. I think  Mr Lender would have become 
aware that Mr D had other outstanding  short-term  loans amounting to over £1,400 and that 
he was spending  considerable  amounts  on gambling.  I dont think  that Mr D could afford to 
take on further lending. I dont think that Mr Lender  should have given  Mr D loans two to five, 
as proportionate checks would likely have shown that he couldnt afford to repay them.
Mr Lender should  put things  right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans two to five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about two to five from Mr Ds credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN09882994my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint  in part. PDL Finance Limited,  
trading as Mr Lender, should take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0988299