K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Lloyds  Bank  plc has handled her business  account over a 
number of years. Specifically, shes unhappy with:
the level of financial support the banks provided;
its decision to cancel  her charge card;  
overdraft charges  and other  fees;  
the handling and processing of cheques she sent under a payment arrangement; 
the lack of account  statements; and
the banks failure to update her address details. 
background
Mrs G has held accounts with Lloyds for many years. These  have included  accounts for her 
business which, until 2011, was run through  a limited company.  Since  that time Mrs G has 
operated as a sole trader. Lloyds provided  her with a charge card and a £1,000 overdraft 
facility. Mrs G feels that this wasnt sufficient to assist her with her new business  venture. 
Mrs G set up a direct  debit to pay her charge card account each month, but in or about July 
2016 that payment left her current account  some £2,500  overdrawn   significantly above the 
£1,000 limit that Lloyds had agreed. The bank cancelled the charge card and sought  Mrs Gs 
proposals for the reduction of the overdraft. 
Lloyds suspended interest and charges from about November 2016 and has been accepting 
payments of £30 a month since the beginning of 2017. Its agreed to continue with those  
arrangements and review  them once this service has finished  looking at Mrs Gs complaint. 
In or about October 2017 Mrs G told Lloyds that she had changed her address. Some 
correspondence was however sent to her previous  address.  
Mrs G has routinely sent the agreed payments of £30 by cheque (from an account  with a 
different bank). They havent always been  processed correctly (or at all), and Mrs G has 
asked for all her accounts to be consolidated  so she can make  a single payment. Lloyds 
says that its systems wont allow that, since different accounts are handled in different parts 
of the business.
Mrs G has also expressed  concern that she hasnt been receiving regular account 
statements. Lloyds explained that, since her account  has been passed  to its recoveries 
department, it only sends annual statements, not monthly ones.       
Lloyds paid Mrs G £150 compensation  for the distress caused to her when correspondence 
was sent to the wrong address. And it offered  a further £75 because it felt it hadnt  explained 
clearly enough  why her cheques had not bee processed. Mrs G wasnt happy  with that and 
referred her complaint  to this service,  where one of our investigators  considered  it. He 
thought however that the banks offer was fair, but recommend that the bank provide Mrs G 
with copies of her bank  statements, so that she could better understand what  had happened  
and to help her with any new repayment plan. 
Mrs G didnt accept the investigators  findings  and asked that an ombudsman review them.   
Ref: DRN05597362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. I shant 
therefore be requiring  Lloyds to do any more to resolve this complaint than its already 
offered to do. 
Mrs G has clearly spent  many hours  over a number of years  pursuing this matter,  and its 
clear she feels  strongly that the bank has let her down.  Shes  referred on several occasions 
to the number of letters  shes written and the number of individuals shes dealt  with. I havent 
discussed in detail each and every  interaction shes had with Lloyds over the years,  but I can 
assure Mrs G that Ive considered carefully  everything both she and the bank have provided, 
in order to reach a conclusion  that I consider to be fair.
I should comment too that this service wont generally intervene in the legitimate exercise of 
a banks commercial judgment. So, whilst  I understand  that Mrs G feels that Lloyds should 
have provided  more financial support to her business and that it would have been more  
successful if that had happened, I think that was a decision for Lloyds to make. 
Similarly, Im satisfied  that Lloyds was within its rights  to withdraw Mrs Gs charge card when 
it appeared that Mrs Gs business was having difficulty  making  payments.  
Where charges were  applied to the account,  Im satisfied that was done  in line with the 
account terms and not unfairly. And the bank suspended those charges in order to help Mrs 
Gs business when  it fell into financial hardship.  
I appreciate that Mrs G would like Lloyds to arrange  its handling of her accounts differently; I 
can understand, for example,  why having  a single point  of contact and a single, consolidated 
debt would make things easier  for her. But Lloyds has explained why different elements of 
her relationship need to be handled in different  departments; I dont believe it would be right, 
or helpful even,  for me to require the bank to arrange things differently. 
It is however right that Mrs G should be in a position  to understand the position on her 
accounts, and Lloyds should  be prepared  to provide her with copy statements in order to 
help her achieve that. I note as well that Lloyds  has agreed to suspend  recovery  action until 
this service has completed its review of Mrs Gs concerns. I would however remind the bank 
of its ongoing  obligations in its treatment  of customers in financial difficulties. At the same  
time, I would  expect the bank and Mrs G to work together to seek to resolve matters. But I 
dont require Lloyds  to do anything more at this stage to resolve the complaint that Mrs G 
has referred to this service.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything more  to resolve Mrs 
Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs 
G to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Ref: DRN05597363Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0559736