K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about the decision by Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  to terminate 
his claim under his employers group  income  protection insurance policy.
background
Mr P was a member of his employers group income  protection insurance policy,  held with 
Aviva. The policy,  after a deferred period, would pay benefit  if Mr P were  unable to work  
because of illness or injury.
During 2016, Mr P began to feel extremely tired. Eventually, in July 2016,  he was diagnosed  
with chronic fatigue  syndrome (CFS).  He and his employer agreed  that he should 
temporarily reduce  his working to 24 hours a week.
In January 2017, Mr P still hadnt managed to increase his working time beyond  24 hours a 
week and was furthermore struggling to perform  the tasks associated with his job. His 
employer therefore  downgraded his responsibilities  and reduced his salary accordingly.
His employer, on Mr Ps behalf, made a claim under the policy.  Aviva accepted this and 
began paying  proportionate benefit based  on Mr Ps salary immediately before he became 
too ill to work full-time in July 2016.
In November 2017, Aviva arranged  for Mr P to undergo an independent  medical examination 
(IME) by Dr H, a consultant in occupational  medicine.  Dr H concluded that Mr P was 
medically unable  at that time to increase his working hours.
At around the same time as this, Mr P stopped  working altogether  due to his fatigue, though 
his employer initially continued to pay him as if he were working his part-time hours.
In April 2018, Aviva arranged for Mr P to undergo another IME with a different consultant  in 
occupational medicine,  Dr M. He concluded that Mr P could  embark  on a graded return  to 
work, initially working 16 to18 hours a week and building up to full-time working over a period 
of approximately  three months. . 
In light of Dr Ms report, Aviva told Mr P it would pay four more  months  of benefit at the rate it 
had previously been paying  and would then terminate the claim. It considered  that this was 
enough time to allow him to return to full-time working.
Mr P complained that Dr Ms report was contradicted by other  medical evidence, including 
the reports of the specialist  treating  his CFS and Dr H. However, Aviva wouldnt change  its 
position. Mr P therefore referred his complaint to us.    
In March 2019, while the complaint was under  investigation, Mr P left his employment and 
started a new job with another employer. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  will pay benefit if Mr P is unable to perform the material  and substantial duties of 
his usual occupation.
Ref: DRN00100062When Mr P stopped working  full-time  in July 2016, he was seen by a consultant 
rheumatologist who diagnosed him as suffering from CFS. The consultant  recommended 
that Mr P seek treatment from a specialist  service, which Ill call V. The consultant  said that 
this service was staffed by an expert group of physiotherapists who were  very practiced at 
getting people  back to normal in these situations.
Mr P sought  assistance from V and it arranged for him to attempt  a graded return to full-time 
working. He also attended  a hospital-based support programme. However, he was unable  to 
get back to full-time working. Furthermore, he wasnt able to perform  at a sufficient  level to 
do his previous job on even a part-time  basis. As a result, in January 2017, his 
responsibilities were significantly downgraded along  with his salary.  The hope was that this 
would be a temporary measure until Mr P was able to regain the same capabilities  he had 
immediately before he became ill.
Mr P continued to seek support from V. However,  he was unable  to increase his hours  even 
in his diminished new role. When Dr H examined  him in November 2017, he concluded  that 
Mr P was unable to do any more work than he was currently doing. Dr H further said:
The course of CFS is unclear therefore I cannot predict if and when  he can return to 
his full contracted hours in accordance with the Definition of Incapacity.  In my 
observation, the majority of patients continue to work at about  50 or 60% of their 
premorbid level. On the other hand,  there is a minority who recover and can resume 
full time however  there  is no scientific way to predict this.
When asked about Mr Ps prognosis,  Dr H answered Guarded, and referred  back to the 
uncertainties surrounding  CFS.
It was around this time that Mr P stopped  working altogether, with the agreement of his 
employer.
In January 2018, Mr Ps treating psychologist at V, Mr F, reported that Mr P was still 
suffering from his CFS symptoms. He said that Mr P should undertake some form of work as 
it was felt that this was beneficial to his rehabilitation. However, he went  on to say:
it is unrealistic  to expect even in the longer term that he will be able to function at 
the same  level as before the onset  of his chronic fatigue. Part of the rehabilitative  
process is for [Mr P] to accept the limitations  that may affect him in the long term and 
to change and pace his way of life to accommodate those limitations.
In April 2018, Mr P underwent the IME with Dr M who said he believed  that Mr P had made 
considerable progress and was now able to embark on a graded  return  to work.  Dr M further 
said that Mr P should be able to resume full-time  working  in his insured occupation in three 
months.
In June 2018, Mr F provided a further  progress  report on Mr P. He said:
We have known and worked with [Mr P] for 22 months. We would now conclude  that 
based on the variance of his symptoms,  trajectory of his recovery  and comparison 
between his current cognitive functioning  and the requirements of his job that a return 
to his previous  occupation is an unrealistic prospect. In addition  to this I would  add 
that a return to work in an environment requiring the demands  of his previous 
occupation would likely  precipitate an increase in [Mr Ps] CFS/ME symptoms. Part of 
Ref: DRN00100063the rehabilitative  process is for [Mr P] to accept the limitations that may affect  him in 
the long-term and to change and pace his way of life to accommodate those 
limitations. We would  encourage [Mr P] to seek future work in an environment that 
would be conducive to his health and wellbeing, this would need  to be in a less 
busy/demanding environment than his previous  occupation.
I find Dr Ms report  to be at odds with both Dr Hs report  and Mr Fs reports,  as well as with 
Mr Ps experience. Dr H expressed doubt  about the chances of Mr P fully recovering  and 
cautioned against making predictions of him getting better. Mr F expressed the clear view 
that Mr P could never return  to his pre-incapacity occupation. And Mr P himself had engaged 
with all recommended  treatment options  and had tried to make a graded  return to work but 
had failed. Against  this background, I find Dr Ms conclusion that Mr P could return to his full-
time insured occupation in three months surprising.
While Mr F is not as well qualified  medically as Dr M, I consider that his opinion  in this case 
carries at least as much, if not more, weight. V had been providing  support  to Mr P for nearly 
two years.  Its services  had been  recommended by his treating rheumatologist and it had 
expert medical staff to help him in his attempted return to work. Mr Fs comments seem  
more in line with the comments of Dr H who cautioned that most patients  in Mr Ps situation 
never fully recover.
At the very least,  after receiving Dr Ms report,  I would have expected Aviva to have 
continued paying the claim and to monitor the situation while  Mr P attempted a graded return  
to work. Given the other evidence it had to hand,  I consider  it was extremely optimistic  for 
Aviva to assume he would  be able to return to full-time working  within four months, let alone  
that this would be in his insured role rather than the diminished role which he had been  
contracted to perform  since  January 2017.
Having said this, I consider that it was reasonable for Dr M to say that Mr P could return  to 
work on a part-time basis, as he had been up until November 2017. There  is no obvious 
reason as to why he was totally unable to work. Mr F acknowledged that Mr P would benefit 
from some  form of work.  I recognise there  is an argument that from the time his 
responsibilities were significantly downgraded in January 2017, Mr P had been totally  unable  
to perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation on even a part-time 
basis but I consider  it fair and reasonable that his ability to perform  the diminished  role 
should be taken  into account.
I dont consider that Mr Ps failure to return to work on a part-time basis prejudiced Aviva. 
The four months  benefit that it paid from June 2018 was based on the assumption he would 
continue to be paid by his employer for the same part-time hours hed been working until 
November 2017.  The evidence doesnt  suggest  that he would ever have been able to return 
to full-time working, let alone in his former  role. He had previously tried increasing his hours 
in his diminished role and this had been unsuccessful. The job which Mr P eventually 
obtained with a new employer was on a part-time basis and with considerably less 
responsibility, and hence a significantly lower  salary, than the job he was insured to do. I 
consider that this supports that it was not realistic to think  Mr P was medically capable  of 
returning to his former role on a full-time basis. 
Under the terms of the policy, proportionate benefit  is payable  at a rate which is determined 
by how much of their pre-incapacity income the employee is continuing to receive from their 
employer. It isnt clear to me whether Mr Ps employer continued paying him the same 
proportion of his salary which it had been paying  him, even though  he had stopped  working 
Ref: DRN00100064in November 2017. However,  even if it had stopped paying him this amount,  given  that it 
seems reasonable  to conclude that Mr P could have carried on doing  the same  hours  as 
before, I consider  that the fair outcome would be for Aviva to reinstate the claim and pay 
benefit at the same  rate it had been  paying.  It should do this until the time Mr P left his 
employment and thus ceased to be covered by the policy.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr P responded to say he was pleased that his complaint was upheld  but that he believed 
he should be entitled to more compensation.
He said he stopped working in November 2017  because hed been unable to perform even 
his part-time, diminished role to a satisfactory standard.  Following the receipt of Dr Hs 
report, he therefore agreed  with his employer that he should take a leave of absence  to 
concentrate on his treatment with V, in particular  the course of CBT recommended  by Dr H, 
in the hope that this would improve his condition,  particularly  his cognitive functioning. 
Unfortunately, no significant  improvement occurred and so, in June 2018, V advised  that he 
should review his career options. This was about  the same  time that Aviva announced it was 
terminating his claim.  This meant that from September 2018, when benefit payments 
ceased, he had no income whatsoever and had no option but to seek alternative 
employment.
Mr P explained that if Aviva hadnt wrongly  terminated his claim when it did, he would have 
had the opportunity to try and negotiate either  a lump-sum settlement  upon termination of his 
employment or the continuation of proportionate benefit by swapping  from the group scheme  
to a new personal policy upon  changing his employment. These  opportunities had now been 
lost and he had been left in a position  where he was earning far lower  income  than hed 
been earning before his illness. He thought it was unfair that Aviva  had been  able to limit its 
liability by putting  him in a position  where he had to leave his employment and thus 
terminate his cover under  the policy.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.  It didnt  agree with Mr Ps comments  that he should 
be entitled to further compensation. It said the negotiation options  he had highlighted were 
not part of the policy contract  and there was no guarantee that either  it or his employer 
would have agreed to consider these.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  I shall explain  why.
I understand Mr Ps concern that Avivas wrongful termination of the claim meant he was 
forced to seek new employment  without potentially negotiating a favourable settlement, or 
new insurance contract,  beforehand. However,  while  he explains why he stopped  work  in 
November 2017,  it remains  the case that the medical evidence  doesnt support that he was 
totally incapable of working, either then or subsequently. I therefore  consider that Mr P gave 
up his part-time working, and hence his associated earnings, out of choice rather than 
medical necessity. I appreciate that those earnings would have formed only part of his 
overall income and that, by wrongly terminating  his claim, Aviva deprived  him of the other 
part, namely his benefit. Nonetheless,  I dont think it is fair for Mr P to say Aviva forced him 
Ref: DRN00100065to seek a new employer  out of economic necessity  as Mr P was himself  partly responsible 
for the fact he was in receipt of no income.
Furthermore, even if I were to accept  that Aviva  had effectively forced Mr P to end his 
employment, I cant reasonably conclude he would  otherwise likely have been  able to 
negotiate a favourable settlement. As Aviva has explained, such settlements are outside the 
terms of the insurance  contract and I would expect  it to have strict guidelines outlining the 
limited circumstances  in which it would be prepared to consider such a course of action. I 
have no reasonable grounds  for concluding  that, in this case, Mr P would  have likely  been 
able to persuade  Aviva  to either  pay him a lump  sum settlement or allow his claim for 
proportionate benefit to continue through a new personal policy.
In view of the above, Im satisfied that I dont  need  to amend my decision to award further 
compensation to Mr P. Given  that both parties were otherwise  prepared  to accept my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that this should  stand.      
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to reinstate  Mr Ps claim and pay benefit at the 
same rate it had been paying.  These payments should continue  until the time Mr P left his 
employment. I furthermore require Aviva to add interest to these benefit payments at the 
annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date the payment should have been made to 
the date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0010006