K820x#14complaint
Mrs P took out a packaged bank account  with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in 
2002 and she says it was mis-sold.
background
Mrs P took out a fee free account with NatWest in March 1974.
She then upgraded to an Advantage Gold account (AGA) in June  2002  for which  she paid a 
monthly fee.
Mrs P downgraded to a Current Plus account in June 2004 which didnt have a fee.
She then upgraded to an Advantage Gold account (AGA) with a monthly fee again  in 
December 2009.  
Mrs P then returned to a fee free Select account in May 2016.
Mrs P says that the packaged bank accounts  were mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that NatWest mis-sold them. Mrs P disagrees so the case  has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ps complaint.
In reply to our adjudicators view, Mrs P has made  it clear that her complaint is only about  
the original AGA sale in June  2002, so this all I need to look at in this decision.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mrs P knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
AGA, and whether  she chose to do so. I think she did and Ill explain why.
Mrs P and NatWest agree  the AGA  was sold in a meeting in a branch. Mrs P says that she 
was told she had to take out the AGA  in order to have a loan for a car she buying approved 
that day.
Mrs P had used a fee free bank account  and taken  out two loans with NatWest before she 
took out her AGA.  So at the time of the sale, I think its more likely  than not that she was 
aware that there was a range of fee free bank accounts and various  loan products available 
from both NatWest and other  banks  and financial institutions. 
I accept Mrs Ps point that Nat Wests employees were motivated to sell the AGA to her, 
whether this was through direct commission or some other  reward. And I dont  doubt  Mrs Ps 
honest recollections; she has been consistent in what shes said.
But I think her memory is mistaken.  I say this because shed had two substantial loans with 
NatWest approved previously, and I think shed have understood that the decision to lend to 
Ref: DRN00750332her in June  2002  wouldve been based  on her credit  rating rather  than any product she was 
buying. I think its more  likely than not that NatWest explained to her that she could save 
money on the loan if she had the AGA (as she did) and so it was a good  idea to take out the 
AGA rather than she had to. I think she wouldve known she could go elsewhere  that day to 
ask for a loan if shed  needed to. And I dont have any evidence, other than Mrs Ps 
testimony that NatWest  made the loan dependent on her taking out the AGA. 
So in my view Mrs P knew she had a choice whether to pay a fee for the AGA or not and she 
chose to take it out. 
NatWest says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AGA to Mrs P personally or advise her to take it out. Mrs P says that NatWest did advise her 
to take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mrs Ps needs  and circumstances  or suitability checks  to show me clearly 
that NatWest did make  a personal recommendation to her. Again,  I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mrs P and explaining the benefits of the AGA,  NatWest may have said 
or implied  that it was good idea to take out the AGA. But this isnt the same as giving a 
personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of NatWests sales 
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that NatWest  sold the AGA to Mrs P on an 
information only basis. 
This means  NatWest did not have to ensure that the AGA  was suitable for Mrs P, but it did 
have to provide  Mrs P with good enough  information about the AGA so she could make an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
The AGA  benefits  in June 2002  included travel insurance, commission free foreign currency, 
extended warranty cover, purchase protection; better interest rates  for overdrafts, loans, and 
mortgages, discounts on home insurance and a range of other  offers. The initial cost was £6 
per month.
I think its likely NatWest wouldve described  the AGA to Mrs P at some length  as it was trying  
to sell the account to her. I think the AGA would have been of interest to Mrs P. Mrs P has said 
that she was taking out a loan, so the better  interest rate on the loan was an immediate  benefit  
for her.
And I can see nothing in Mrs Ps personal  circumstances that would have stopped her using 
the AGAs benefits;  it was for her to decide what she wanted to use.
So, in my view Mrs P knew she had a choice about the AGA and she chose to take it out. And 
I dont think there is anything NatWest didnt tell her that would have changed her mind and 
put her off taking out the AGA.
Ref: DRN00750333my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0075033