K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) over its handling of a 
disputed charge to his account. He wants the charge to be refunded, and compensation for 
his time and inconvenience in dealing with this issue. 
background
In summer  2018 Mr D attended a club. Whilst there,  Mr D says that he was approached  by a 
dancer and agreed to pay £360  for a service  which was not provided. He says that when  he 
complained he was ejected from the club and assaulted. 
Mr D immediately contacted the police and his bank. When he spoke to NatWest  he said 
that he had been charged  for services  not received and raised a dispute. 
Shortly afterwards, NatWest opened  a chargeback claim on the basis  of services not 
received, and credited Mr Ds account with the disputed amount  while  this was ongoing. 
The retailers  bank then defended the chargeback  claim and provided evidence  of receipts 
and details of dance chips, which they said demonstrated that Mr D had purchased  services.  
On the basis of this defence, NatWest re-debited the charge  from Mr D and closed the 
chargeback claim. 
Mr D complained to NatWest. He offered to provide evidence which he said showed that he 
could not have received any services as he was ejected from the club shortly  after his card 
transaction and that he immediately made phone calls. 
Nat West sent Mr D its final response  in August 2018. It rejected his complaint and set out 
that the chargeback process is governed by rules laid down by the scheme  provider (in this 
case, VISA). These defined when a chargeback was possible and how the process  would 
apply. NatWest considered that sufficient evidence had been provided by the retailer to 
demonstrate that the dispute  was between the retailer and the consumer. NatWest therefore  
declined to take the claim any further.
Mr D was not happy with this response and contacted  us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and has set out their view to the parties.  
This was that NatWest  has acted properly in initiating  the chargeback claim and had acted in 
line with the scheme  rules  when the retailer provided evidence to support that a service had 
been provided. The investigator  therefore  thought that NatWest had not done anything  
wrong. 
Mr D did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr D feels strongly  about this dispute and that he feels  that NatWest 
should have considered all the evidence he was able to provide weighed  against that 
Ref: DRN08348752provided by the retailer. He has set out why he thinks that the evidence provided by the 
retailer is flawed and that it does not show that he received any services. 
I understand that view, but the chargeback scheme is not a formal dispute  resolution 
scheme, and it is not designed to decide  complex  issues of fact between the parties. 
NatWests obligation  is to apply the scheme rules  to the facts  and evidence that are 
presented to it, and to act in line with the scheme  process. 
In this instance, the scheme sets out what evidence is required  from retailers  when a dispute  
is raised about services  not being  provided,  and NatWest considered  that evidence  was 
sufficient to satisfy the scheme. This is not the same as having  assessed all evidence and 
making a finding  of fact, as would happen in a legal case. Instead  it is saying that the dispute 
is between the retailer and the consumer  and the chargeback  system  is no longer 
appropriate to resolve  the dispute. 
I do not think this is an unreasonable position  from NatWest, and it abides by the scheme 
rules which are set by VISA. As a result, I agree with the investigators view and do not think 
that NatWest has done anything  wrong in the way it has handled this claim. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr D, but I hope it clearly  explains why I 
have reached it. It remains open to Mr D to pursue  his dispute with the retailer  directly if he 
wishes to do so. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint  and do not ask National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0834875