K821x#15complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company  Limited (LV) wont pay her 
whole home  insurance  claim for storm damage to her roof.
background
In March 2019 Mrs Gs roof was damaged after strong winds.  She made  a claim to LV for 
her contractors cost of repair. LV assessed  the claim and accepted that there had been a 
storm on the day in question. However  it would only pay the part of the claim concerning  the 
blowing down of a finial and a ridge tile. It wouldnt pay for any other  tiles. The reason for this 
is because from its review  of street images  from a maps website it was apparent that the 
tiles were already  loose/worn. The images  reviewed  went  back  to 2012. It was satisfied that 
the damage to the other roof tiles was due to wear  and tear and to them being in a poor 
condition in the first place.
Mrs G accepted LVs offer of payment on an interim basis. But she didnt accept that the tiles 
suffered from wear and tear. She asserted that the roof was in good  condition and that the 
tiles came down at the same time as the finial and ridge tiles. She further  asserted that LVs 
offer wasnt  sufficient for the scaffolding necessary to reach  the highest point of the roof 
where the ridge tile and finial were.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that LV had acted reasonably. In 
comparing the photos prior to the storm damage  it appeared clear  that some of the tiles 
werent in good  condition.  So he said that they had most likely been damaged by wear  and 
tear, not covered  under  the policy.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that there was clearly  an area of damaged tiles 
directly below where the finial and ridge tile came down, which didnt appear to have been  
damaged previously. I said that LV should pay for this area of tiling,  which I assessed at 
£500. I said that it should pay VAT on the full amount for which I assessed it to be liable 
(£1,660), and this in my view is likely to be consistent with Mrs Gs view that the finial/ridge 
tile brought other tiles down with them.
Mrs G didnt accept my provisional decision:
She strongly disagrees  that work necessary after the storm damage was in any way 
contributed to by any lack of repair. 
She had the roof repaired in 2006,  then had the spire completely retiled in April 2014 and 
the single  storey  extension reroofed in October 2014.
She doesnt think that LV should be able to rely on out of date photos.  She hasnt been  
shown the photos  its contractor took when he visited the property.
She doesnt accept  LVs assessment of the cost of scaffolding  it hasnt shown her its 
estimate.
She believes the whole cost of her invoice for the repairs  should be paid.
LV accepted that it was possible  there was additional storm damage to the tiles and 
accepted my provisional findings
Ref: DRN07746812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
As LV and our investigator explained to Mrs G, when  assessing whether there is storm 
damage under a home insurance  policy, we ask three questions.  It is only if the answer to 
each of those  questions is "Yes that it is most likely that we would tell an insurer  to deal with 
a claim as storm damage. And as in Mrs Gs case, part of the damage could be storm 
damage and part not. The questions are:
1.Were there  storm conditions  on or around the date of the claim?
2.   Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3.   Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
In this case, its been accepted by all parties  that there was a storm, so I dont need to 
review that. Also as the damage  consisted of roof and ridge tiles and a finial blowing off in 
high winds  I accept that this is consistent  with the damage a storm typically causes.
LV has rejected the claim  in part. It accepts that the finial and ridge  tiles were damaged by 
the storm, and has made a payment  for its assessed  cost of that damage. With regard  to the 
damage to other roof tiles Mrs G is claiming  for, LV says this was pre-existing damage  
caused by wear and tear. It relies  on street  images  from a maps website, taken in 2012  and 
2018, which it says shows this damage.
Mrs G asserted that the roof was in good  repair and that the damage to the tiles was caused 
by the finial breaking  off and falling down the roof. Ive looked at the images supplied by LV 
and by Mrs G, and the street view images. Unquestionably tiles came off the roof during the 
storm. Mrs Gs estimate is to replace all slipped, missing and broken tiles to main roof 
slope. I think, though the images from before the event arent particularly clear, that parts  of 
the roof, away from the area beneath the finial had holes and slipped tiles. 
But there is clearly an area of damaged  tiles directly below where the finial and ridge tile 
came down, which doesnt appear to have been damaged previously, and this in my view is 
likely to be consistent with Mrs Gs view that the finial/ridge tile brought other tiles down with 
them. Ive noted  the result of the inspection carried  out by LV, but this doesnt comment on 
whether the tiles may have come  down during the storm   it just asserts  from the review  of 
street view images that the damage was pre-existing.
So I think that LV should increase its payment  to take account of the damage to the tiles 
below the finial.  Mrs Gs quote is for £2,450  plus VAT. LV has paid £1,160 (which doesnt  
appear to include  VAT)  less the excess.  Im aware that Mrs G disputes  that cost as she 
doesnt believe it includes the full cost of the scaffolding necessary. However LVs contractor 
has broken down its invoice and says that is the cost it would charge for scaffolding to that 
area. Generally when  an insurer  makes a cash offer it does so on the basis of what it would 
cost it. In this case it couldnt do the repairs because there was what  it considered  to be 
uninsured work to do.
Ref: DRN07746813Bearing in mind that we are an informal alternative  dispute resolution service  I will assess 
what I think is a fair and reasonable further payment for LV to make, to cover  the tiles 
damaged in my view by the storm. I think it should pay a further  £500.  It should also pay 
VAT on the total figure  of £1,660 (£1,160 plus £500*), if Mrs G produces a VAT receipt.
*Ive corrected this figure from my provisional  findings.
I dont think it was unfair for LV to look at street images. The investigator shared  the photos  
we have seen  with Mrs G.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs G has maintained her roof, the areas  of repair  in 2014 (the spire  
and the extension roof) werent involved in this claim which  concerns the main  roof area.
I appreciate that Mrs G wanted more detail from LV about how it had calculated its estimate 
for the scaffolding. But I think it fair to accept that that is what  it would have paid its 
contractor. For reasons of commercial  confidentiality  insurers dont generally release details 
of their contractors rates.  
So I still think that a fair result would be for LV to pay a further £500 plus VAT. As Ive said 
Ive assessed  this on the basis of what I think in my opinion is fair and reasonable. My 
provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited to: 
pay a further £500  to Mrs G in settlement  of her claim.
pay VAT on the figure of £1,660 on receipt of a VAT invoice from Mrs G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0774681