K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L bought  the policy  in 2000  at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL  shouldve made it clear  the PPI was optional.  And it shouldve  got Mrs Ls 
agreement to buy it. Mrs L says it wasnt made  clear to her that the PPI was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ls store card application. There  was a section on the 
application where she could tick to say if she wanted to buy PPI with the card.  And 
Mrs L signed to say she did want the policy in this section. So I think its clear  that 
Mrs L needed to select PPI separately to the store card in order  to buy it. And I think  
FICL made Mrs L aware that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it shouldve provided clear information  to Mrs L to allow her to decide  if she 
wanted to buy the policy.  Mrs L says this didnt happen. So Ive considered  the 
information provided at the time of sale. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But if Mrs L couldnt  work for a long period of time she mayve  found 
it difficult to make the card repayments.  The PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Mrs Ls card 
balance if she couldnt work  due to illness, or she lost her job. The payment wouldve 
been in addition to any sick pay, or unemployment benefits,  she might  have received 
if this happened. It couldve provided a benefit until the card was repaid or she 
returned to work. Which is longer  than her sick pay wouldve lasted.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mrs L couldnt  afford to make the monthly  payments to 
the PPI at the time of sale. And she doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover such as pre-existing medical conditions.  So 
based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful to her. And I dont think  Mrs Ls lost out due to anything  that FICL  mightve  
done wrong.  
Ref: DRN05508112my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0550811