K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about the amount that hes been charged by Volkswagen  Financial Services  
(UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Finance, for damage to a car that he returned when his  
hire agreement ended.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr C under  a hire agreement with Volkswagen Finance that he 
signed in September 2015.  The agreement ended  in September 2018 and the car was 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Volkswagen  Finance before it was collected  from 
Mr C. The inspection report identified damage  to the car and recommended a charge of 
£615.60 for that damage. Volkswagen  Finance  charged him that amount but he complained 
to it about the charges. He wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator said that Volkswagen Finance had agreed to remove the £138 charge for 
the unsatisfactory repair to the right rear door and Mr C accepted  the £36 charge for a 
scratched wheel. But she believed that the other charges had been applied fairly in line with 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  guidelines.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in 
summary, that:
prior to the inspection he had the car resprayed  to remove  a few scratches on the 
bodywork;
hes provided  photos of the car showing the specific locations referenced  in the 
inspection report  and whats being mistaken as a scratch is dirt which  isnt apparent  in 
the photos he took;
he sees  no reason why the condition of the car would have any detrimental impact  on 
the resale value;  and 
he took great care to look after the car and he would be astonished if the value of it 
when sold was any less than any car of that age and model would ever be sold for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C signed the hire agreement. Immediately above his signature it says:
This is a Hire Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. Sign it only if 
you want to be legally  bound by its terms.
Volkswagen Finance has provided the terms and conditions of the agreement which say:
You agree  to return the Vehicle to us at the end of the Hiring Period in good repair and 
condition except for fair wear and tear (as defined in the British  Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  Fair Wear and Tear Guide ; and:  you shall indemnify  us 
against  all costs  and expenses we have incurred  or will incur   [for the repair work] 
Ref: DRN02596412The car was inspected by a third party on behalf of Volkswagen Finance in September 2019 
before it was collected from Mr C. The inspection report records  the cars mileage as being  
22,725 miles and identified the following damage (and included photos of the damage):  a 
scratched wheel; a scratched front bumper; unsatisfactory repairs  to the rear bumper, the 
right rear quarter panel, the fuel flap, the roof and the right rear door; and a scratched right 
door mirror  housing. The inspection report says that Mr C refused to sign it and that he 
disputed the reported items.
The report  recommended  total charges of £615.60  for the damage.  Mr C accepts  that the 
wheel was scratched  and Volkswagen Finance has agreed to remove the charge for the right 
rear door  so I havent considered those charges any further. Mr C says that the car was 
inspected again  when it was collected and the only damage that was identified at that time 
was the scratched wheel. Volkswagen Finance  says that there wasnt  a second  inspection  
but the collection driver was checking  that the car was in a roadworthy condition  and safe to 
drive. I consider that to be more likely in the circumstances than a second inspection.
Mr C says that he had the car resprayed  before it was inspected but the inspection report says 
that unsatisfactory repairs have been made to the car. I consider that the photos  in the 
inspection report show that theres damage to the rear bumper,  the right rear quarter panel, the 
fuel flap and the roof and that the damage wouldnt reasonably  be considered to be fair wear 
and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines.
The inspection report also includes photos  of the scratched  front bumper and right mirror 
housing. I consider those  scratches to also be more than would reasonably  be considered  to 
be fair wear  and tear.
Mr C has asked for evidence about the repairs that were made to the car. But I dont consider 
that Volkswagen  Finance was required to have the car repaired. The car was returned  at the 
end of the agreement with damage and I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mr C to pay to 
Volkswagen Finance the repair costs that were recommended in the inspection  report for that 
damage (other than the £138 for the door). I dont consider those charges to be excessive.
Volkswagen Finance has agreed to remove the charge of £138  which  reduces the amount 
due from Mr C from £615.60  to £477.60.  I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Volkswagen Finance to further reduce the charges or to take any other action in response  
to Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited, trading 
as Volkswagen Finance, should  reduce the amount that its charged Mr C for damage to the 
car by £138  to £477.60.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0259641