K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  in-branch.
At the time,  Mr M was employed as an HGV mechanic. He has told us he was entitled to 
three months full sick pay and around  the same amount in redundancy pay. But he said he 
didnt have any savings  or other means of repaying  his credit card should  he be unable to 
work. Mr M has said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale. I will come  back to 
this later on. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ms credit  card balance in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost around  78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2003.
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr M about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and 
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN08622402Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN08622403I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr M sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mr M know he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN08622404BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ms credit card application completed during the branch 
meeting. Looking at this I can see there  is a section  called Product details which  says:  If 
you would  like to take advantage of these services mark the relevant boxes. And there  is a 
printed cross in the Credit  Card Repayment  Insurance box. Im mindful the marked  cross is 
printed and not handwritten. But from what we know of BoS  sales  process,  the application 
process was computer screen-based and the cross in the box wouldve come  about from a 
discussion about PPI during the meeting. Mr M signed the overall application and credit  
agreement  so I think its reasonable to assume  he wanted PPI.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something different  happened in Mr Ms case, I think its more likely that Mr M knew  the 
policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
While Mr M hasnt said either way if he received advice  to take out PPI, BoS says it did 
provide advice during this sale. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M. It seems Mr M cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely  had some  limited information about Mr 
Ms financial  circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show the adviser took steps  
to establish whether Mr M would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered whether Mr M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr M given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded BoS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mr Ms ability to continue  to meet 
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the employee  benefits he says he 
would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr M.
Ref: DRN08622405-The exclusions and limitations didnt, in my view make the policy unsuitable for Mr M. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions - Mr M has told 
us about having asthma  since he was a child and that it was ongoing. So it seems  he 
wouldnt have been able to successfully claim for this condition. But Mr M hasnt said 
that hes had to take any time off work for his condition or said anything  which  makes 
me think hed have likely  thought his condition would be the main  reason hed be off 
work in the future (for more than 15 days)  and want to claim on the policy. So in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  it was wrong  for BoS to have  recommended it. There  
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Ms 
circumstances and the fact the policy had the potential to clear his outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr M sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr M was given a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr M would  have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr M would  have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was. I am also satisfied Mr M would have realised the policy 
wasnt free and its likely he would have had some  understanding of how much the policy 
cost before agreeing to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr M 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mr 
M might have been given,  I think its more likely than not that he based his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr M, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr M. Im not persuaded that BoS gave Mr M all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN08622406In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent did Mr M suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr M would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded that BoS took the steps  it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr M, Ive found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, Mr 
M would have acted differently, or whether  he would  have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr M says he would not have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN08622407The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr M ought  reasonably to have known he would  have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   I 
think at the very least this wouldve  been discussed  during  the meeting. But, I accept that 
BoS didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while  Mr M didnt know some  things,  
the ultimate position in the event  of a successful claim  was not dissimilar  to what  he would 
reasonably have thought  from the information he based his decision to take out the policy  on 
and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  and
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the 
policy wasnt as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr M says he had a medical  condition  when 
the PPI was taken  out, for the reasons Ive already given above  as to why I think the policy 
was nevertheless still suitable  for him, I dont think better information about this exclusion 
would have put Mr M off agreeing to it. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  he 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions. So I still think he had some  
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr M needed to be unable to do his normal  job. I dont think this 
is likely  to be any different to what he would have expected  to make a claim.  
Ref: DRN08622408So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr M would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr M would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude BoS should pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr M, in the way it did, was insufficient  to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1999 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ref: DRN08622409Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0862240