K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that  after it made a successful chargeback claim for him  HSBC UK Bank 
Plc didnt  then pay him for the consequential loss he said he suffered.  He wants  HSBC to 
honour its promise to pay for the loss and to compensate him for the inconvenience he says 
hes suffered.
background
In July 2018 Mr S engaged a company to remove some rubbish from the rear of his property.  
He made  two payments of £650 and £29.99 using his debit card.  He says the company 
removed part of his fencing  which it didnt  replace   and also didnt clear the site as 
agreed.  He contacted the company  to try to resolve  the matter  but it said it hadnt caused 
any damage to his fences  and had cleared the rubbish as instructed.
As result he contacted  HSBC and asked it to refund the payment to his card.  He said HSBC  
agreed it would raise a chargeback query for the money hed paid  and if the claim  was 
successful, it would consider refunding the cost of putting right the damage to the fence  and 
a gate. Mr S provided a quote from another company  who said it would cost £850 for the 
work involved.
On 23 August 2018 HSBC refunded £679.99 to Mr S card. Mr S then asked HSBC  about 
the loss for the damage that was caused,  but HSBC  didnt  agree to pay for that as it said 
Mr S had paid for the work with a debit card and therefore it wouldnt be able to pay for any 
additional loss.
Mr S complained as he said HSBC  had promised it would pay him for all the losses hed 
incurred. He wanted HSBC to honour  the whole claim and to compensate him for the 
inconvenience hed been caused by being  given incorrect information. 
HSBC said it had raised a chargeback query and successfully refunded his card with the 
payments for the services  hed paid for. But it wasnt able to pay him for the damage to his 
fences. It apologised  that it hadnt responded to him as it should have done and paid him 
£150 for the lack of a response.  Unhappy with the outcome  Mr S referred his complaint to 
us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He said it shouldnt be upheld  because 
HSBC had returned Mr S original payments  to him but werent  responsible for any 
consequential loss hed suffered. He said the compensation HSBC  had paid was fair and 
reasonable for both the lack of response  to Mr S and the inconvenience caused by giving 
Mr S mis leading information.
Mr S didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said HSBC  
ought to be responsible for all the costs  it led him to believe would be covered. He said 
HSBC was aware he had used  his debit card and therefore it should  honour what it had 
promised him if his chargeback claim was successful  which  it was. As the matter  couldnt 
be resolved the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07274682Theres no dispute here that HSBC successfully raised a charge back query  for Mr S and 
refunded the total cost of the services hed paid for. Theres  also no dispute  that HSBC  did 
initially tell Mr S that it would consider a claim for the consequential loss hed suffered 
regarding damage  to his fence  if his chargeback claim  was successful. The problem is that 
HSBC failed to realise  the dispute  was raised  on Mr S debit card  which it said meant it 
couldnt consider  the additional costs  whereas Mr S wants HSBC to honour what it 
originally said and compensate him for the whole claim. 
And I have  some sympathy  for Mr S position here as he feels that hes been left with a bill 
for damage  that he didnt cause, which will leave him out of pocket through no fault of his 
own. But I think HSBC has acted fairly here  and has compensated Mr S appropriately. I 
know this outcome will disappoint Mr S so Ill explain  why.
A chargeback scheme is a voluntary code. Its not guaranteed to recover money  and is 
based on the card scheme rules  not the card issuer. In this case  HSBC thought Mr S had a 
good reason to raise a query and, having  done  so, it was able to successfully  refund him for 
the cost of the services hed paid for. But there are rules which the chargeback  scheme must 
follow. And Ive looked into the conditions that apply if a claim  is made when a service  is 
disputed because it was defective  or not as described, one of which  is that the claim is 
limited to the amount paid by the card or if lower, the value of the claim. So, Im satisfied that 
in Mr S case  there was no scope  for HSBC  to pay him the consequential loss he suffered as 
it meant the entire  claim  would be above the value of what he paid on his card.  So I dont 
think HSBC has done anything wrong here by telling Mr S that it couldnt  consider his 
consequential loss claim.
But HSBC  did initially suggest it would consider the whole claim  as a result of it thinking 
Mr S may had used  a credit card  which is covered  by a different  set of rules.  Unfortunately 
this raised Mr S expectations  of what he could expect and I can understand why this would 
have caused Mr S some degree of distress  and inconvenience. But HSBC has apologised 
for this mistake and paid Mr S £150  for any inconvenience caused by the error as well as 
any inconvenience caused by its dispute  team  not replying to Mr S during his complaint.  And 
I think in the circumstances that offer is fair and reasonable and an appropriate level of 
compensation for what happened. 
HSBC is unable to pay Mr S any consequential  loss hes suffered as a result of the rules  
governing chargeback payments, so I dont think it would be fair for me to ask HSBC to pay 
anymore. I know Mr S believes HSBC should compensate  him fully for its error  and pay 
what it said it would. But I think HSBCs offer of compensation for the error is sufficient in this 
case.
my final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid £150 to settle  Mr S complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. So Im not going  to ask HSBC to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Keith lawrence
Ref: DRN07274683ombudsman
Ref: DRN0727468