K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has never  been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used car on 29 June 2017. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. On delivery the car had completed 11,000 miles and was 
about a year and a half old.
But Mr B says hes had problems with the car that havent been  resolved and hed therefore  
like BMWFS to allow  him to reject it and terminate his finance agreement. 
BMWFS wouldnt  allow him to do that. They said they were only responsible  for the quality of 
the vehicle at the point  of supply and that no faults were diagnosed until after Mr B had been 
in possession of the car for more than six months. In fact they said the first record of a fault 
was in August  2018, over a year after Mr B took receipt of the car, when the dealership  
identified a problem  with the brake switch which had subsequently been  successfully 
repaired.
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. She 
reviewed the service records provided  by the dealership  which detailed the following history:
August 2017   rattling headrest resolved
January 2018   stop/start function not working.  Dealership cant  identify fault
June 2018   stop/start function  fault again.  Dealership cant identify fault.
August 2018   stop/start function again. Brake pedal adjusted
late August 2018 - stop/start function again. Engine management light; traction  
warning light. New brake pedal  switch fitted
September  car collected  and traction warning  light still on and brake  lights  
constantly illuminated. Mr B returns car to the dealership and tells BMWFS he wants  
to reject it.
She thought  the issues Mr B complained about  werent wear and tear issues. She thought it 
was reasonable  to expect the cars stop/start function and its lighting to function correctly  
throughout its life and she didnt think it had proven to be suitably durable. She noted that 
BMWFS had many opportunities to resolve the issue with the car but these had proven 
unsuccessful. So she thought it was fair to suggest  they now allow  Mr B to reject  his car and 
that they should refund any instalments hed paid towards his agreement  from the time the 
car had been  returned in September 2018.  She thought it was clear  that Mr B had been 
inconvenienced by the matter and that BMWFS should therefore also pay him compensation 
of £250.
But BMWFS  disagreed. They said there was no record of anything  being wrong with the car 
until August 2018  and that their responsibility was only for faults that were there at the 
beginning. They didnt think there  was evidence provided by Mr B that there  were  faults 
when the finance agreement started so they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06271472I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMWFS  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. The car here 
was around one and a half years  old and had travelled 11,000 miles when  Mr B took receipt 
of it. So it was fairly new and I would expect  little to be wrong with it.
When I consider whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality the relevant legislation says I should 
consider whether it has proven to be suitably durable. And here I dont think thats  the case. I 
dont think a reasonable person would  expect a car of this age and mileage to have a 
significant issue with the start/stop function that occasionally  prevented it from restarting and 
I accept Mr Bs explanation that this could, and apparently has, arisen in traffic and created a 
dangerous situation.
Mr B has given  BMWFS  many opportunities to fix the problems hes experienced. I can see 
the car has been  back to the dealership on four occasions to have the stop/start problem 
resolved. Whilst BMWFS  dispute whether there was an issue with the car in January 2018 I 
think its clear  there was. Ive seen  an email in which the dealership  has explained that the 
issue  with stop/start has not been an easy one to identify and a further email in which  they 
explained that no issue was highlighted with stop/start until they sought  technical advice 
from (the manufacturer)  I think this supports Mr Bs claim  that there was a problem  earlier 
but it wasnt diagnosed until later.
Mr B has made several attempts to get BMWFS  to resolve this problem. I can see that a 
brake pedal was adjusted  and latterly replaced. But the problems Mr B complained of appear 
to still be outstanding. It seems that the brake light problem is a function  of the brake  pedal  
sensor adjustment and the brake pedal sensor  is impacting the stop/start function. But 
regardless, the problems havent been  resolved and I think its now reasonable to accept 
that the car has not proven to be durable and it would be fair to allow  Mr B to reject it and 
terminate his finance agreement with BMWFS.
Ref: DRN06271473Hes been inconvenienced by this issue and having  considered all of the issues  in the case I 
would agree with the investigator  that a payment of £250 would be reasonable 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
allow Mr B to terminate his finance agreement with nothing more  to pay
collect the car at no further cost to him
refund  any instalments made  towards his finance agreement from September 2018 
until the date of settlement
pay Mr B £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0627147