K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy because  Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  didnt  liaise  with his insurance company 
following a road traffic  accident.
background
Mr C took out a conditional  sale agreement  with Moneybarn in December 2017  to cover the 
cost of a used car. The amount of credit was £9,495;  with repayments of £311.43 a month  
over 5 years. At the time the car was 7 years old and had travelled around 111,000 miles.
In February 2018  Mr C was involved in a road traffic accident in which  his car was damaged. 
Mr C says the repairs to the car were carried out by a third-party garage, instructed by and 
paid for by his insurance company. Mr C was unhappy with the quality of the repairs, and 
said hed been  told the car needed around £10,000 worth of repairs  to bring it up to a 
satisfactory standard.
Mr C raised the quality of repairs with Moneybarn, but they referred him back  to his insurers.  
Mr C then complained  to Moneybarn that the terms of his agreement  say that Moneybarn will 
act as his agent  to negotiate with his insurers  to settle an insurance  claim, and they havent  
done this. Moneybarn said that this only applied where funds were  paid directly  to them to 
settle any claim, and they cant get involved when an insurance company funds the repairs.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response, and he was also unhappy with how Moneybarn dealt 
with his complaint.  So he brought his complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator said that, because the insurance  company  paid the third-party garage for the 
repairs directly,  Moneybarn  didnt  need  to be involved  with the claim.  So he thought  theyd 
acted reasonably and in line with their terms and conditions. And after reviewing  
Moneybarns contact  notes, he didnt see any evidence theyd taken an unreasonable 
amount of time to investigate Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicator.  Hes said that this all happened  at a stressful time for 
him, and theres  nothing  in the agreement  that says Moneybarn will only liaise  with an 
insurer when theyre receiving funds to settle an agreement. He thinks  Moneybarn have lied 
to him, and that they constantly change what theyre saying. So hes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  overall  conclusions as the adjudicator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.  I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
C, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive also 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented  on any specific 
point, its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN08372232Firstly, Id like to recognise  that this all happened  at an already stressful  time for Mr C, one 
which meant he was unable to keep up regular  payments to Moneybarn. And I dont doubt 
that Mr C was unhappy with the quality of the repairs done to his car. But, for me to agree 
that Moneybarn  should do something and/or compensate Mr C for this, Id need  to be 
satisfied that they shouldve  dealt  with the insurance claim on his behalf from the outset. And 
in this situation, I dont think  thats the case.
Ive seen a copy  of the conditional sale agreement documents signed  on 18 December 
2017. The relevant terms and conditions  of this agreement say:
5. INSURANCE
5.5 You will notify us promptly in the event of the goods being  declared a total loss by 
your insurer  and will provide to us on request full contact  details of your or any 3rd 
party insurer and reference number(s)  of the claim(s).
5.6 You promise to pay us for any loss or damage to the goods and for any loss, damage 
or injury caused by the goods (except for any caused  by our own failure to exercise 
reasonable care)  insofar as it is not covered by insurance  of the goods.
You irrevocably appoint us as your agent  to:
5.6.1 negotiate with the insurers (yours or a 3rd party) to settle any insurance claim, 
and
5.6.2 agree the amount payable in any insurance claim relating to the goods, and
5.6.3 receive payment of any insurance claim relating to the goods, and
5.6.4 institute proceedings for the recovery of monies  due pursuant to any 
insurance claims relating  to the goods.
5.7 You will pursue diligently any insurance  claim  and will cooperate fully with any and all 
requests for information requested from your or any 3rd party insurer.
5.9 If the goods are lost, stolen or are considered a total loss by the insurer then the 
following amounts  will become immediately payable 
5.10 In the event of the goods  being  declared a total loss, any insurance monies you 
receive directly from your insurance  company, or a 3rd party  insurer,  will be payable 
to us with immediate effect,  such as monies  being  held on trust for us.
When considering  the terms and conditions, its important they are considered both 
individually and as a whole. I agree that 5.6 gives Moneybarn the right to deal with a claim.  
But it doesnt say they will always deal with every claim. And 5.7 says Mr C should  pursue 
diligently any insurance claim. So the presence  of 5.7 shows me that Moneybarn wouldnt  
expect to deal with every claim.
Whats more, 5.5, 5.9 and 5.10 (and 5.11 and 5.12 which I havent quoted as they relate to 
how a settlement would  be applied to any outstanding amount under the agreement) are all 
concerned with claims where  the car is lost, stolen or declared a total loss i.e. where Mr C 
would no longer have possession of the car.
So it would be fair to say that, when considering the terms as a whole,  Moneybarn  are more  
concerned with total loss claims.  And its not unreasonable for them to become involved in 
this type of insurance claim, while not becoming  involved in other types  of claim.
I agree  with Mr C that the terms arent specific  in saying what circumstances  Moneybarn  
would become involved in a claim. But I wouldnt expect them to list every  possible 
circumstance where  they would, would not, may or may not become involved.  I think that as 
the terms dont specify  that they would become involved in each and every claim, its fair for 
them to make a case  by case decision as to whether they would deal with a claim or not.
Ref: DRN08372233In this instance, Mr C has told us that his car was damaged but considered repairable. But 
the repairs werent done to a satisfactory  standard and his car suffered additional  damage  
while in the third-party  garage. This is unfortunate, but I cant  hold Moneybarn responsible 
for the repairs or further damage. And I wouldnt expect them to pay to have the car 
repaired. This is something  that needs  to be raised  with the insurance  company. 
Moneybarn explained  why this isnt a claim theyre  dealing with - because the insurer paid 
the third-party garage direct for the costs of the repairs. So there was nothing for them to 
negotiate or settle. Because of this, its Mr Cs obligation under term 5.7 to pursue  the 
insurance company  for any repairs that werent of a satisfactory quality. 
I dont consider that Moneybarn have failed to adhere to their terms, so I wont  be asking  
them to do anything more.  But I would expect them to cooperate with any requests made by, 
or on behalf of, the insurance  company while theyre  dealing with Mr Cs concerns. And I 
would expect them to deal with Mr Cs financial difficulties  in a positive and sensitive way.
Finally, Mr C is unhappy with how Moneybarn dealt with his complaint. Complaint handling  is 
not a regulated activity, so it isnt something I can decide upon. However, I am glad to see 
that, in their final complaint response  letter, Moneybarn have acknowledged they couldve 
done better.  And theyve  given Mr C some  gift vouchers by way of an apology for the time it 
took them to deal with his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0837223