K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that TSB Bank  Plc unfairly recorded negative  account information on her 
credit file. 
 
background
Miss Hs TSB account was in arrears, and the bank recorded this on her credit  file. Miss H 
settled the account,  and TSB said it would update her file. But Miss H considered TSB 
should backdate the updated details, to reflect the fact that shed been in discussion with the 
bank for some time about how much  she should  pay to settle the account.
TSB paid Miss H £83.67 in recognition that some of its service couldve been  better  when 
she was trying to settle her account. But TSB said the credit information it had reported  was 
accurate, and it wasnt willing to alter it as Miss H wanted.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  it was 
reasonable for Miss H to have been  aware of the charges  that were being  applied to her 
account, and the position  it was in. He was also satisfied that the charges had been  applied 
correctly.
Overall, the investigator  concluded TSB had recorded accurate information  on Miss Hs 
credit file and he didnt consider it needed to be altered or removed.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions,  so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that this complaint is linked to issues Miss H complained about in 2016. As the 
investigator has already  explained, I cant look at the merits of Miss Hs 2016 complaint 
because it wasnt referred to this service  in time. But Id like to assure  her that Ive taken 
account of the background  to that complaint, to provide context for this complaint.
The account  in question was opened as a student  account in 2011.  It converted  to a 
graduate account  when  Miss H graduated, and became  a Classic account in June 2017, in 
line with the terms  of the graduate account.  It was from that point that charges and interest 
increased on Miss Hs account, because  the benefits of the graduate account had stopped.
Miss H has told me that she didnt  know about the changes to her account, so she wasnt  
aware of the charges that were being applied.
But from what Ive seen,  there is nothing to suggest that TSB didnt contact her at the 
address it held for her on its records. So I dont think I can safely  say that TSB didnt make 
here aware  of the account changes, or the charges that were being  applied once the 
account became  a Classic account.
Im also satisfied that the charges were  properly applied in line with the accounts  terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN03974132When Miss H became aware of the charges  she negotiated with TSB over how much  she 
had to pay to clear the balance. TSB refunded some  of the charges and Miss H paid the 
remaining balance on 1 June 2019.
TSB couldnt update Miss Hs credit  file information before that date, but it provided  a letter  
dated 12 June  2019 to confirm that the account  was repaid in full, closed  and not in default.  
Miss H could show this letter to potential lenders if she needed  to.
Im not persuaded that TSB acted unfairly in connection with the credit  file information it 
recorded for Miss H. It was obliged to record the account arrears until the point at which  they 
were settled in June 2019.  So I wont be asking  the bank to make  any adjustments to 
Miss Hs credit file information.
TSB paid £83 to cover  some of Miss Hs costs when she was in contact with it about what  
she owed, and in recognition that some of its service couldve been better. I think thats  fair, 
but the bank doesnt  need  to do anything  else.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0397413