K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Zurich Insurance PLC avoided his home contents insurance policies 
for misrepresentation. As a result,  it wont  pay the claim he made following a burglary.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 August 2018. A copy of the 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision. In it, I explained why 
I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I gave both parties time to consider my provisional decision. 
after my provisional  decision  
Zurich broadly agreed with the provisional decision and said it appreciated the detailed  
analysis of the evidence that had been  undertaken. It added  that notwithstanding  my 
provisional findings, it would continue to maintain  its position that false statements were also 
made during the claims process and that Mr M hadnt  proven the loss was fortuitous. 
Mr M provided a substantial response, with perspectives  from his partner and his insurance 
broker. 
Mr Ms insurance brokers response  
Mr Ms insurance broker looked at my provisional decision and said that although Id agreed 
with Mr Ms comments  around previous insurance being cancelled  and the anchoring of the 
safe, these points still demonstrated  that Zurich had relied on matters that are not relevant 
when making the decision  not to pay the claim.  
He felt that light administration work being carried out at home by Mr Ms partner would be 
considered incidental and that its decision to avoid the policy  and refusal of the claim was 
because of a completely  different interpretation of how the business actually runs.
He said that the police have no concerns  about whether Mr M has incurred a loss. He felt 
that Zurich was relying on its interpretation  of what it believed  and that its assumptions  cant 
be proven. 
Ref: DRN01739672Mr Ms partners  response 
Mr Ms partner,  who for ease I shall call Mr P, responded  to explain in more  detail how the 
business operates. He pointed out that Zurich had never asked for company accounts or 
further details.  
Mr P said that hes a sole team leader who pays and directs the whole operation. He said 
that hes not an employee and neither does he own or run a business.  He explained that as 
a distribution agent, he goes  to a depot once a week to arrange  onward distribution. He also 
explained that he pays the team that work  with him directly and is later reimbursed by the 
distribution company  around six weeks later. He said that he goes to the depot because their 
home is unsuitable to receive deliveries. He added  that the estate manager where Mr M and 
Mr P live is willing to testify that no business  is being operated from their home if it came to 
it. 
He explained  that the level of income generated by the distribution  activity was much  less 
than I had alluded  to in my provisional decision. He explained that the total pay is around 
£30,000 before any costs  were taken into account.  
Mr P said that co-ordinating onward distribution required very little administration.  He 
provided examples  of the type of paperwork that he is required to complete and said that it 
can only be considered  to be incidental work because it takes so little time to do. 
Mr P also highlighted  that the theft at his home  and the forensic  reconstruction of it that 
Zurich instructed has caused him considerable upset. 
Mr Ms response 
Mr M said he wouldnt have deliberately misrepresented his position or answered  any 
questions recklessly to obtain  a lower premium. He suggested that it wouldve been  an 
innocent, honest mistake  not to mention Mr Ps incidental  business.
Mr M said that hed been retired  from the year 2000  onwards. He explained that he was in 
poor health at the time that the policy was taken out. He provided a copy  of the service 
agreement with the distributor to show that a proxy  was able to operate on his behalf. He 
added that Mr P did all of the work.  
Mr M felt Zurich  had taken comments out of context. He said that Mr P was self-employed  
and the people that assist  him are also self-employed. He said that Mr P didnt need to leave  
home either frequently  or for any great  length  of time. He said that most of the people  
fulfilling the distribution are able to collect from the storage premises for themselves  so that 
Mr P only needs to give verbal or written  instructions  about what  to do. Mr M said the 
administration tasks  that Mr P does  only require a minimal time input and for that reason are 
incidental. He said that Mr P doesnt employ staff,  doesnt store any distribution  material  at 
home and doesnt  keep  cash  at home.  
Mr M said he could  provide CCTV footage to show no workers  or team  members  had visited  
his home.  He added  that Zurich had never asked Mr P any questions,  even though hed 
been at home at the time of the incident. 
Ref: DRN01739673In conclusion, Mr M felt the activities that took place  in the home wouldve posed no risk to 
Zurich. He also didnt  think  it was right for me to make a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities when hed provided  concrete evidence and Zurich hadnt.  
my further  questions 
After reviewing the submissions, I had additional  questions for Mr M and Mr P. 
I wanted to understand why Mr M hadnt  mentioned  his CCTV footage  before now. I also 
wanted to understand how Mr P paid the people that actually did the distribution. It was 
unclear to me whether  they were paid in advance or after the completion of a task. 
Mr M responded and provided further  comments around Mr Ps employment status. He said 
Mr P had been retired in the past,  but commenced  distribution work in December 2011. 
He also said that any work that was being undertaken by Mr P was incidental because  it was 
only minimal.  He reiterated  that as Mr P spends  very little time undertaking administration,  it 
could never  be interpreted nor construed as anything other than incidental business. 
Mr M provided evidence to show that CCTV cameras didnt exist at his home at the time of 
the break in and were installed to offer reassurance and act as a deterrent  after the burglary. 
He said that he would  be willing to show the more recent CCTV footage  to anyone that 
wished to view it. 
In response to my query about  how the distributors were paid, Mr M suggested  that Mr P 
would collect the distributors and drive them to areas where they would work. He explained 
that Mr P could track  the movements of the distributors using a tracking device, but he didnt 
always issue and monitor them. He added that Mr P paid the distributors in cash  once the 
deliveries were complete  by withdrawing cash from a cash  machine. He added that this is 
done when required  and no cash was kept at home.  
Mr M pointed out hed offered evidence that Zurich hadnt considered. He said that hed 
been willing  to allow Zurich to examine all mobile  phones and his home computer along with 
his medical records, his CCTV footage and that he was willing to take a polygraph test. 
I then had further questions for Zurich. I asked for a senior underwriter  to review the 
additional comments that had been made  by Mr M or on his behalf about how the leaflet  
distribution business ran day to day. I wanted  to understand exactly what Zurich wouldve 
done if Mr M had answered the questions about his employment status and whether  his 
home was being  used  for business  or professional purposes other  than incidental  business 
in this way. I noted  that although Mr P had most recently explained that the income  
generated from the distribution business was less than I had suggested,  the total pay was 
still in excess of what the policy defined as being incidental  business, either  at or away  from 
the home. 
Zurich responded  to say the information that had been provided by Mr M or on his behalf 
was inconsistent with the original account. It pointed out that in the witness statement  that 
Mr M signed, he confirmed that the business was split between him and his partner. It also 
pointed out that the witness statement contradicts  what has been  said about Mr P solely 
running the business at the relevant time. 
Ref: DRN01739674Zurich provided further comments from its senior  underwriting team. It pointed out that this 
was a personal policy and if the risk were to cross  over and resemble more of a commercial 
type risk, this wouldnt have been acceptable. It pointed out that revenues above £10,000 do 
suggest a more commercially  based  risk profile. 
It also pointed out that the nature of the business  activity wouldve also been  unacceptable, 
citing concerns around a casual workforce being paid cash  in hand. 
Mr Ms insurance brokers further responses 
Mr Ms broker provided further submissions. In summary, he referred me to relevant law and 
pointed out that Zurich  needed to demonstrate that Mr Ms failure to disclose any business 
use of his home at the time the insurance was taken out was deliberate  or reckless  to be 
able to avoid the policy. He said that he believed the crux of the matter was whether or not 
the risk wouldve been  written had Zurich been  provided with the information at the outset 
that they have  now. He explained that in his experience, the major concerns of high net 
worth insurers with regard  to a business being  run from home  relate more  to the nature of 
the work  and any increased risk that it brings. He gave a hypothetical example of an 
accountant who has revenue of £50,000 but who deals solely with clients by email or post or 
by visiting them. He thought it was unlikely  that Zurich would refuse  to underwrite that risk.
Mr Ms broker later added supplementary  comments. In summary, he wanted  to understand 
what type of commercial policy Zurich would expect  someone with a high level of contents  
and valuables living in a large  house  to have. He added  that Zurich  should provide answers 
as to how it would approach underwriting the risk in the hypothetical example hed put 
forward as it may help me to decide what Zurich  wouldve done in Mr Ms case. 
Mr Ms partners  further response  
Mr P contacted me to explain that he was in poor health and that this matter was causing 
him a lot of stress. He pointed out that the burglary and all that has followed has had a 
negative impact on his mental  health.
In summary,  Mr P felt that Zurich hadnt appreciated his outlay costs  and had overlooked 
that he actually  receives  a modest return for the work that he does. He also felt that Zurich 
had muddied the water  and had been misleading,  especially when  it put forward  that Mr M 
had had insurance cancelled before.
To conclude,  Mr P felt Zurich hadnt  offered sufficient evidence  to back  up its position. He 
thanked me for the opportunity to explain how the leaflet distribution operation actually ran.
Mr Ms further response 
In summary,  Mr M added that the original  witness statement was not a verbatim account  of 
what was said. He said that he changed  twelve incorrect statements but left many more 
unaltered. He also pointed out that his landlord had confirmed in writing twice  that no 
business is being run from his home.  He added  that hed lost his driving licence for a period 
of time and so couldnt have undertaken any distribution work at the time that he arranged  
cover with Zurich. 
Ref: DRN01739675Mr M reiterated that three quarters of the earnings  that were received for the distribution  of 
the leaflets went  towards  wages and outlay. He said that the actual amount received by Mr P 
was around £46,000 and that he needed  to cover expenses such as petrol, road tax and 
contributions to the leaflet distributors that assist by using their own cars out of that. He said 
that Zurich had never asked for tax returns and that it had never spoken to Mr P about  how 
the business operates. 
To conclude,  Mr M said that no business was being  run from his home and no visitors  of any 
kind go there. He said that no equipment or leaflets are at the home and all of Mr Ps work is 
undertaken off the premises, approximately sixty miles away. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including all of the further information that 
has been provided since my provisional  decision. Having done so, I still dont think  Zurich 
has acted unfairly by avoiding Mr Ms policy and refusing his claim. Ill explain why. 
Mr M was disappointed  that Id reached  my provisional  decision  on balance. But this is what  
I am required to do. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory (as 
some of it is here),  I have to reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened  in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  when considering whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I need to take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. 
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012  
(CIDRA). Under this legislation a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation.
As my provisional decision  highlighted, the crux of this matter is whether  Mr M made 
qualifying misrepresentations when he took out the policy and again  at its renewal in 2015.  
I explained why I thought  Mr M most  likely knew or should  have  known he was still working 
and that a business was being run from his home  on both these occasions. And that this 
meant he should have answered the questions he was asked differently and clarified the 
position at renewal in 2015. And that in not doing so, I felt hed made  a deliberate  or reckless  
misrepresentation.
I also explained why I wasnt persuaded that a change in Mr Ms occupation status from 
retired to managing a leaflet  distribution business  in and of itself would have made a 
significant difference to Zurich. But that I did think that Mr Ms home being used to run a 
sizeable leaflet distribution business  wouldve done. I said that bearing in mind the turnover 
of the business along  with the potential  for leaflet  distributors to visit the premises  or the 
potential for cash to be kept at the home, I thought it was most  likely Zurich wouldnt have 
provided cover either originally or at the renewal of the policy in 2015.  
Both these  things meant I felt Mr Ms misrepresentations were qualifying  misrepresentations 
and gave Zurich  the right to avoid his policies and refuse his claim. 
Ref: DRN01739676But, the most recent information provided  by Mr M or on his behalf suggests that the 
business arrangements  were significantly  different. The responses to my provisional  
decision essentially say that business  activity was being undertaken solely by Mr P; with only 
light administrative tasks taking place  from the home. 
The difficulty  I have with this is that the details that Ive now been given about how the 
business was being run at the relevant time have significantly changed  since Mr M gave and 
signed his original statement. I recognise that it has been a long time now since the burglary  
happened and even longer still since the original policy was taken out and then renewed. 
And I accept  that recollections over specific details will fade over time. But - as Ive said - the 
information that has been provided to me in response to my provisional  decision is vastly 
different to the information thats been  provided  previously. 
For example, in the witness  statement,  Mr M said: 
Since 8th October 2015, Mr P has only been  out of the house three times, once to organise 
taking money from our joint account,  the second  time to withdraw the money,  and the third 
time to see the police after the incident.
But now both Mr M and Mr P have said Mr P did an awful lot more  than this. 
So, Im not persuaded that the most recent  account  of how the business  operated  and ran is 
a fair reflection of how things were  more likely  than not being run at the time Mr M took out 
the policy and renewed it in 2015. The burglary at Mr Ms home took place in mid-April 2016. 
In early June 2016, Mr M was interviewed by Zurich.  The interview resulted in a lengthy 
witness statement, which  as Ive already  mentioned - Mr M signed to say was correct. 
I think I need to place considerable weight on the original witness statement, as it was 
produced very shortly after the event that gave rise to the claim. In addition to this, when 
Mr M received the hard copy of the witness statement, he contacted  Zurich  with twelve 
specific amendments and clarifications to what had been recorded. None of the additional 
information Mr M provided to Zurich  in response  to the witness  statement flagged any 
potential misunderstanding as to his role in the business or how the business actually ran. 
As a result, I consider  that the information Mr M gave in the witness  statement is more likely 
than not to accurately detail the way the leaflet  distribution was arranged  and run at the time 
Mr M took out the policy and then renewed it in 2015. After all, if it didnt  he would have told 
Zurich this and asked for the statement to be further amended. I am not persuaded by 
Mr Ms recent submission that he changed twelve incorrect statements but chose to leave a 
great number unaltered.  
In any event, whether  it was Mr P or Mr M running the business, I still think that Mr M gave  
Zurich a misleading impression when he answered  no to the question  is your home,  
including outbuildingsused  for any business or professional purposes other than incidental 
business or incidental farming as defined  in your policy?
Ref: DRN01739677As I explained in my provisional decision,  I was persuaded the turnover of the business 
wouldve been a key consideration in Zurichs decision  to provide cover. This was because  
I looked carefully at the policy definitions for incidental  business at and away  from the home. 
Incidental business  at home  is defined as:
A business activity  (other than renting out to others  or incidental  farming) conducted at your
home, undertaken solely by you providing  that the total gross annual revenue for these 
activities does not exceed £10,000.
Incidental business  away from the home is defined as:
A self-employed business  activity including gardening,  baby-sitting, caddying, leaflet or 
newspaper distribution  and other  similar  activities undertaken solely  by you providing that 
the total gross annual  revenue for these activities does not exceed £10,000.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr M has said the time commitment required to manage  the leaflet 
distribution operation  is minimal, its apparent the business activity was more  than incidental, 
as the revenue  it generated  was at least £30,000;  and based on what  Mr M said in his 
original statement, I think it was probably a lot more  than this. 
In the information provided to me more recently, Mr P suggested that the pay was much less 
than Id indicated.  He said:
Let me address  considerable amount of income- that by any standard is not a 
considerable amount of income for all the effortthis equates to a total pay for my input, of 
around £30,000. This total includes me doing  Mr Ms postcodes.  This is before my costs are 
taken into account.
Yet in the witness  statement, Mr M says for the last four years,  our earning [sic] were 
£740,000. In addition  to this, the witness statement  also notes that Mr P has provided 52 
remittance advices from 1 June 2015  to 17 May 2016. These  total £129,687 for both of us at 
roughly 50/50. 
Whilst I accept  that the growth of online marketing may well have impacted the level of 
demand for leaflet distribution, I still think its more likely than not that the turnover at the time 
of the policy  was taken out was substantial. And I dont think a business with such a high 
turnover could have  been conducted  entirely  in the areas where the leaflets were physically 
distributed. 
Therefore, for the reasons I have explained,  both here and in my provisional  decision, I still 
think its more likely  than not that Mr M and his partner were actually running a significant 
business from their home. So it follows that I still think Mr M failed to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation by answering  no to the question about  this and then not 
correcting it when he renewed the policy in 2015.  
Ref: DRN01739678When I issued my provisional decision,  I felt it was most likely Zurich wouldnt have provided 
cover either originally or at renewal of the policy in 2015 if it had known the true situation. 
Or, at the very least, it would have offered cover on much more restricted  terms.
This makes Mr Ms misrepresentations qualifying misrepresentations and if I think they were  
reckless or deliberate  Zurich was entitled to avoid Mr Ms original policy  and the new policy 
that came  into effect at renewal in May 2015.  Ive explained  why I think  this further  below. 
CIDRA details that an insurer has a remedy  against  a consumer (here  Mr M) where  the
consumer has made  a misrepresentation in breach of the duty to take reasonable care,  and
the insurer shows that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have entered into the
contract at all (or would  have but on different  terms).
Such a misrepresentation is referred to as a qualifying misrepresentation and is either 
i) deliberate  or reckless, or ii) careless.  In my provisional decision, I was satisfied that Mr M 
made qualifying  misrepresentations which were deliberate or reckless as opposed to 
careless. This was because I was satisfied Mr M knew or should have known he was still 
working and that a business was being  run from his home. 
And I was also satisfied that when he renewed the policy in 2015  Mr M should have 
corrected the information  Zurich held,  as detailed in the Statement of Fact originally 
provided, by letting it know a business  was being  run from his home. And I think that by not 
doing this he failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent,  as he was in effect 
confirming the information hed provided when taking the policy  out was correct  when  it 
wasnt. 
None of the further evidence provided  has changed  my view that Mr M failed to take 
reasonable care not to misrepresent and because I think  its more  likely than not he knew a 
business was being run from his home,  I still think Mr M telling Zurich  and then confirming 
this was not the case were reckless or deliberate misrepresentations. 
CIDRA says where a misrepresentation  is deliberate or reckless  Zurich may avoid the 
contract and refuse all claims provided  it would have entered  into the contract on different 
terms or not at all, but for the misrepresentation. Ive already explained above and in my 
provisional decision that Im satisfied  Zurich would  at the very least   have  offered cover  
both originally and at renewal in 2015  on different terms if Mr M hadnt made  
misrepresentations. And this means I still think  Zurich  was entitled to avoid Mr Ms original 
policy and the new policy (consumer contract)  that came into force in May 2015.  This means  
Zurich is not obliged to settle  Mr Ms claim,  as, at the time of the burglary in April 2016  there  
was in effect no policy in place with Zurich covering his home. 
 
Also, as I think these  misrepresentations  were  deliberate or reckless,  I cant see any reason 
why its unfair for Zurich  to retain the premiums Mr M paid. 
In summary,  for the reasons set out above, I think allowing  Zurich  to avoid the policies Mr M 
took out in May 2014 and May 2015  and  as a result  refuse his claim following his 
burglary in 2016 produces a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. 
Ref: DRN01739679my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN017396710COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Zurich  Insurance  PLC avoided  his home  contents insurance policies for 
misrepresentation. As a result, it wont pay the claim  he made following a burglary.  
Mr M has made the complaint with the assistance of representatives. To make my decision  easier to 
read, I refer only to Mr M. I do this even  where  it was the representative rather than Mr M who 
responded. I mean no discourtesy in taking  this approach. 
background
Mr M took out a specialist home  insurance policy underwritten by Zurich in May 2014 and renewed it 
in May 2015.  It provided cover for general contents,  art and antiques, and fine jewellery. In April 2016, 
there was a break-in at Mr Ms home. A safe containing  fine jewellery was stolen. Mr M made a claim 
under his policy. 
Zurich investigated the claim and the circumstances around Mr M talking out the policy and renewing 
it. A complaint  about  the length  of time it took for Zurich to reach a conclusion has been considered 
separately by one of our investigators so Im not going to explore any of those  issues here. 
Zurichs investigation identified concerns with the information Mr M provided when he took out the 
policy in May 2014. It, in effect, said he made deliberate  misrepresentations at this point and again at 
renewal in 2015. It also said if he hadnt made these misrepresentations it wouldnt have offered the 
policy to Mr M originally  or renewed it as a new consumer insurance  contract in May 2015.  
Zurich also felt Mr M had made  false statements in relation to the claim  itself, breaching a policy  
condition. It also highlighted concerns around whether the incident  that led to the loss was plausible. 
Zurichs final position  was to avoid the policy Mr M took out in 2014 and the new policy which started  
at renewal in May 2015.  It kept the premiums Mr M had paid for these and refused his claim. This was 
on the basis that Mr Ms misrepresentations  were deliberate or reckless  qualifying misrepresentations.  
Mr M complained to us. Hes said he answered  all questions  he was asked when  he took out the 
policy correctly. And that this means he didnt make deliberate misrepresentations either originally or 
at renewal in 2015. 
Our investigator felt Zurich was entitled to avoid  both polices (consumer contracts) and refuse Mr Ms 
claim. This was because he considered that Mr M had failed to take reasonable care not to make 
misrepresentation when he took out the original policy in 2014. He concluded that when Zurich  had 
asked him about his occupation and whether his home was being used for business  or professional 
purposes he deliberately  misrepresented that he was retired and that his home wasnt used for 
business purposes. Our investigator also concluded that by not correcting  this information  when he 
renewed the policy in May 2015, Mr M had also failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent.  
And that this misrepresentation was also deliberate.  He also accepted that if Mr M hadnt made these  
misrepresentations Zurich wouldnt have  offered either the policy in 2014 or renewed it in 2015.
Our investigator went on to explain  that he didnt need  to think about the inaccurate information Zurich 
thought Mr M had given during the claim  because if both policies were avoided,  Mr M would not be 
entitled to claim. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. Hes said,  in summary, that he genuinely 
considered himself to be retired  when  he took out the policy in 2014  and when  he renewed it. Hes 
pointed out his partner  undertook occasional  administrative duties  from home, but the actual business 
activity was conducted  elsewhere. Hes provided  delivery addresses  from distributors  invoices to 
Ref: DRN017396711support this and said that there  was no equipment or stock stored at his home. Hes also provided 
extracts from his tenancy agreement to show that running a business from his home  isnt allowed. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I currently think  Zurich  was entitled to avoid the 
policies. So Ill explain why.
The relevant law
The relevant law is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 or CIDRA. 
CIDRA says that a consumer must take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation.  And it goes 
on to say, if a consumer  fails take reasonable care and the insurer  can show it wouldnt have entered  
into the insurance contract at all or would have done so on different terms,  theres a qualifying 
misrepresentation. And the insurer will then have the remedies set out in the Act, which depend  on 
whether the misrepresentation was careless or deliberate/reckless. 
If the insurer cant show  the consumer made a qualifying misrepresentation, CIDRA  makes it clear 
that the insurer cant  take any action at all. 
the misrepresentations Zurich says Mr M made
Initially Zurich  had concerns that Mr M hadnt said that his home  was occupied by someone other 
than family. But Zurich  hasnt raised  this point again in its recent correspondence when it outlines  why 
it considers it can avoid  Mr Ms policies. This suggests to me that it is no longer looking to rely on this 
point. Given that Mr M had lived with his partner of many  years,  which means hed be part of his 
family and the fact Zurich  hasnt pushed this point more recently means I probably  dont need to 
consider it further. But  for the sake of completeness, I should say that I dont  think  Mr M made  a 
misrepresentation on this issue. 
Zurich says that it can avoid Mr Ms policy because he made numerous misrepresentations  when he 
took out the policy 2014 and renewed  it in 2015. Ive set out what  it thinks these  were below:
Mr M had an insurance  policy  cancelled before but said he hadnt;
Mr M said he was retired, when he wasnt, as he was actively involved in a business and 
receiving regular income payments from it;
Mr M said his home wasnt being used for business or professional  purposes when  it was; 
and 
the safe where Mr Ms fine jewellery was kept was not secured in accordance with the 
manufacturers specification. 
Zurich thinks Mr M deliberately mispresented  his position or answered  recklessly in order to lower the 
premium. And its said it wouldnt have provided  the policy at all in 2014 or renewed it in 2015 if he 
hadnt made these misrepresentations. 
Its not clear what happened  when Mr M took out the policy  in 2014, but I assume when he did so, he 
was asked  to provide answers  to certain questions by his insurance broker.  And this information was 
then provided to Zurich, who produced a Statement of Fact, which it sent to the broker.  The broker 
appears to have then passed this on to Mr M to check.
Then prior to renewal  of the policy in 2015, it looks like Zurich sent a renewal  notice to Mr M via his 
broker. Its not clear  whether  this included a copy of the Statement of Fact from the previous year. But 
it looks like Mr M was asked to let Zurich  know if any of the information hed previously provided was 
incorrect. 
Ref: DRN017396712In any event, Im satisfied  the Statement  of Fact is based on the information Mr Ms broker provided to 
Zurich when  the policy  started  in 2014. 
The Statement  of Fact says at the start:
IMPORTANT- please read the following information carefully
This Statement of Fact contains the information provided by you together with the statement and 
declaration on which your policy is based. Along with your policy  booklet, your most recent schedule,  
any amendment to cover notice and your agreement to pay the premium it forms the contract  
between you and us.
Our agreement to provide the cover is based on the information detailed below which has been  
provided by you in respect of yourself and on behalf of anyone else insured under this policy  or 
anyone else with an interest in this policy. Therefore  please make  sure this document has been 
checked by all interested parties and contact your broker or us if anything  is missing,  incorrect or has 
changed as this may affect the premium or cover we provide.
For the sake of ease  Ive dealt with each  of the misrepresentations Zurich has suggested Mr M made 
below:
having insurance  cancelled by an insurer
The Statement  of Fact had the following statement just under the section Ive set out above.
Other than motoring offences  or convictions,  you must  tell us if you or anyone  covered  by this 
insurance has:
ever been  refused  insurance, had a renewal of insurance declined, had insurance cancelled  by an 
insurer or had special  terms or conditions  imposed on a policy.
I dont think this is very well set out, as it doesnt state  that Mr M had said hed never  had a policy 
cancelled. It just points out Mr M needs to tell Zurich if he had. So, in reality, even if Mr M had 
previously had insurance cancelled by an insurer, this part of the Statement of Fact doesnt  actually 
show he misrepresented  that he hadnt. But, Ive assumed Mr Ms broker told Zurich one way or 
another when it set up the policy that Mr M had never had insurance cancelled  by an insurer and that 
it did this based on the information Mr M had provided. And this means  if hed had insurance 
cancelled by an insurer, either  Mr M (or his broker on his behalf) would have made  a 
misrepresentation about  this. 
Zurich says Mr M did have insurance cancelled, and its referred  to an email from Mr Ms previous 
broker to him on 21 February 2017 in which  it said the following:
So as I understand the policy that you had with us in the past, the notes are as follows:
19/04/2011 - cover was cancelledas this was inadequate cover for you, and we could not 
continueas it was now over and above our contents limit that we can quote  for and you would net 
[sic] a high net worth  insurance company to fit your needs.
Mr M says that his broker cancelled  the policy  because the insurer wasnt able to provide  the level of 
cover he needed. He points  out that alternative cover was required because he was trying to add on 
an item, which exceeded that insurers limit.
Zurich thinks that Mr M wouldve known that hed had insurance cancelled because  the level of cover 
he needed exceeded the terms of the product  the previous  insurer were  able to offer. But the 
abovementioned statement refers to having insurance cancelled by an insurer. And Mr M has 
maintained throughout  that his broker cancelled  this policy because  it couldnt offer the level of cover 
Ref: DRN017396713he needed. And I think  the email extract above supports this assertion. This means  I dont consider 
Zurich has shown  that Mr M made  a misrepresentation  about having had an insurance policy  
cancelled. 
was the safe secured  in accordance with the manufacturers specification? 
Under security  details, the Statement of Fact says:
Safe Protection
The property is fitted with a freestanding safe, which had been secured in accordance with the 
manufacturers specification and is used on a regular basis.
Its not in dispute that the safe in Mr Ms home wasnt secured to the floor. So its clear  this wasnt the 
case and that by not correcting  this statement, technically Mr M made a misrepresentation.
But Zurich knew the safe wasnt secured prior to renewing the policy in 2015 and agreed to renew the 
policy without obtaining  any confirmation that its requirements around the way the safe was fitted and 
its cash rating had been addressed. And in June 2015, Zurich agreed with Mr M that the anchoring of 
the safe and the clarification  of its cash rating wouldnt need  to be carried  out as long as there were  
no increases in the value of the jewellery.  So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Zurich to 
rely on this misrepresentation as a reason  for avoiding Mr Ms policy. And  in any event  I dont  see 
how Zurich could ever show it would have offered cover on different  terms, which it would need to do 
to prove it was a qualifying  misrepresentation, having actually provided  cover on the same terms 
without the safe being secured.
Mr M not being retired? 
The Statement  of Fact shows  Mr Ms occupation as retired and - again  - Ive assumed this is based 
on what Mr Ms broker told Zurich when it set up the policy. 
Mr M has said he told his broker he was retired and didnt  correct his occupation  when he saw the 
Statement of Fact as he was retired. Hes added that he was unfit medically and physically  for work. 
And that while his name appears on business  paperwork, his partner took over his duties when he 
became too unwell to work. Hed considered himself as being retired from 1990 onwards.  
The witness  statement Mr M has signed  suggests  the turnover of the business was high, generating a 
considerable amount of income for him from a business that he describes  as being sporadic. When 
Mr M explained how the business ran, he said that orders are emailed  to him and his partner  and that 
they employ a team of people. The letter  from the distributor  dated 25 August 2017 refers to Mr M. 
The distributor says its been trading  with Mr M for over 20 years and doesnt make any mention of Mr 
M having stepped back from things or that his involvement in the business  is now historical. So I think  
this shows  the working relationship is still active. 
Mr M accepts  that his name appears on some of the contracts, but says hes not done any work since  
his health deteriorated.  And, as Ive already mentioned, hes explained his partner had taken  over. But 
from what Mr M told Zurich, I cant see how his partner couldve been running the business.  The 
nature of the business wouldve involved Mr Ms partner leaving their home  more frequently  than Mr 
M says he did. And from the information Mr M provided  to Zurich,  it looks like he was still recruiting 
people to work for the business in October 2015. 
Plus, Ive seen evidence  that in a quote for insurance in April 2011  Mr M described himself  as a semi-
retired distribution agent  and his partner as retired.  But Mr M has now suggested hed retired and his 
partner was running  his side of the business for him. This adds weight to my view that its most  likely 
Mr M wasnt actually retired when he took out the policy in 2014 and renewed it in 2015. 
Ref: DRN017396714I think  all this shows Mr M was still actively involved with a business when he took out the policy  with 
Zurich in 2014  and when he renewed  it in 2015. This means  I think  he failed to take reasonable  care 
not to misrepresent by saying he was retired when he took out the policy and not correcting this when  
he renewed  it in 2015. 
Ive dealt with what Zurich  would have  done  if it had known this and whether it was a qualifying 
misrepresentation later.
was Mr M running a business from his home?
The Statement  of Fact sets out Mr M had answered  no to the following question:
Is your home, including outbuildingsused for any business or professional  purposes other than 
incidental business  or incidental farming as defined in your policy?
Mr M accepts  that some administration  duties relating to the business were carried  out from home, 
but says this was predominately paperwork  such as responding to emails and book keeping.  Hes 
suggested the level of business activity that happened at home doesnt go beyond what could fairly by 
considered incidental. And the question on the Statement  of Fact asks if the home is being  used for 
business purposes other than incidental business.  So if the business carried  out at Mr Ms home  was 
incidental he wouldnt have made a misrepresentation. 
Mr Ms witness  statement shows that he said the level of business activity at home  had decreased  
over time. And that he explained no deliveries had been made to his home  for around five years, 
which is before he took out the policy with Zurich in 2014.
Ive looked carefully at everything both sides have said and provided on this specific point.  Zurich 
doesnt have anything concrete to show that deliveries were made to Mr Ms home or that workers  
went to the property to collect wages around the time Mr M took the policy out. 
But, the yearly turnover  for the leaflet  distribution  business Mr M was involved in has been  stated as 
being in the region of £180,000 at the time Mr M renewed the policy in 2015. This is a considerable  
amount of money for a small business. It seems likely to me that more than incidental business  
administration would have  needed to be carried  out from Mr Ms home for a business  this size. And I 
cant see it could have been run from anywhere  else. I appreciate leaflets could have been delivered 
elsewhere for distribution, but a business with a turnover of £180,000  would have needed  to be run on 
a day to day basis  from somewhere. 
In reaching this view Ive taken into account Zurichs reasons for thinking that more  than incidental 
business was being carried out from Mr Ms home when he took out the policy in 2014 and renewed it 
in 2015. Its pointed to invoices being  addressed to the property, the potential  existence of a fax line, 
computers and phones being used to communicate with the main distribution  company from the 
property, movement trackers  being  downloaded at the property, cash  related  to the business  being  
stored on the premises and a van being at Mr Ms home. Its also suggested employees  collected 
wages from the property.  I appreciate  Mr M denies this and has said the fax line hadnt been used for 
ten years or more. 
But Im not persuaded by Mr Ms assertion that the business was conducted in the areas where the 
leaflets were distributed. And Ive not seen anything that suggests the commercial premises  where 
the leaflets were collected from was anything  more  than a drop off point. 
So I think its most likely Mr M and his partner were running the business from home. This means  I 
think Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by answering no to the 
question about this and then not correcting it when he renewed the policy in 2015.
Ref: DRN017396715Zurich has said if Mr M had provided the correct information on both his occupation  and the running of 
a business from his home it would  have  been  key to its underwriters. The problem  is it hasnt provided 
a clear statement  from its underwriters showing this is its normal approach  or provided an 
underwriting guide backing this up. 
But Zurich has explained that with high net worth clients, it tends to underwrite on an individual basis,  
which I accept.  And its also said that if Mr M hadnt misrepresented that he was retired and instead 
said he was managing a leaflet distribution  business and that his home  was used for business 
purposes, it would have  made further enquiries  and then wouldnt have  provided the policy. 
Im not persuaded  that a change in Mr Ms occupation status from retired to managing  a leaflet 
distribution business  in itself would have made a significant difference to Zurich. But I think Mr Ms 
home being used to run a sizeable leaflet distribution  business  wouldve done.  And - bearing  in mind 
the turnover  of the business and the concerns Zurichs underwriters would  have had about  the 
potential for leaflet distributors to visit and the potential for cash to be kept on the premises, Im 
satisfied its most likely Zurich wouldnt have provided  cover either  originally or at renewal  of the policy 
in 2015. Or, at the very least, it would have offered cover on much  more restricted terms.
This means  Im satisfied that Zurich  has done enough to show  Mr M made qualifying 
misrepresentations when he took out the policy and again at renewal in 2015.  And Im also satisfied 
these were deliberate  or reckless as opposed to careless. This is because  I think Mr M knew or 
should have known he was still working and a business  was being  run from his home. And this means 
I think  Zurich was entitled to avoid the original policy  and the new policy (consumer contract) that 
came into force in May 2015. As these  misrepresentations were  deliberate  or reckless, I cant  see any 
reason why its unfair for Zurich to retain the premiums Mr M paid. 
This means,  in effect, neither policy ever existed. It follows that Mr M has no right to claim under them  
and so Zurich  isnt obliged to meet  or consider  Mr Ms claim for stolen jewellery further. 
As a consequence, I dont  think it would  be fair and reasonable for me to interfere with Zurichs 
decision to avoid Mr Ms policies and refuse his claim. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im not intending to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0173967