K820x#14Complaint
Mr T has complained that Interactive Investor Services  Limited  didnt make him aware  of the 
risks associated with investments he made  through his share  dealing  account.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Mr T opened an account with Interactive Investor, formerly known  as TD Waterhouse,  in 
2000. He made a number of investments between February and August 2000. Mr T has 
complained that hes made a significant loss on these investments. He said he was given 
advice over the phone at the time to buy these shares and no warnings  were  given to him 
about the risks involved. He wants Interactive Investor to compensate him for his losses.
Interactive Investor  says that no call recordings are available  from 2000.  But it says Mr Ts 
account was an execution-only service and no advice wouldve been given to him about 
which investments to make.
Interactive Investor  hasnt  been able to produce  the agreement  Mr T signed in 2000, but its 
provided the terms that apply to Mr Ts account  now. They show that Mr T holds a trading 
account and that it doesnt provide advice about  the suitability of any investments made. The 
terms also clearly  identify  that investments are made at the clients own risk.
While I havent seen  a copy of Mr Ts agreement when he opened the account,  Im satisfied 
Interactive Investor  doesnt provide an advised service for Mr Ts account. And I think  he 
wouldve accepted  similar terms and conditions when he agreed to open it. So, on balance, 
I think Mr T wouldve been made  aware  of the risks involved  in share dealing and that his 
investments could go up or down in value.
I cant know what Mr T was told over the phone in 2000  its possible the representatives he 
spoke with provided information about companies  he could invest  in. But I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that any advice was given, or that Mr T couldve reasonably  been  
led to believe a personal recommendation had been  made.  So, I dont think  Interactive 
Investor is liable  for Mr Ts losses.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0101169