K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains Tradewise Insurance Company Limited unfairly  refused a claim against his 
commercial motor insurance policy. 
background
In October  2017 Mr H had a vehicle stolen. He claimed on his Tradewise motor trade road 
risks policy.  But the claim was refused. Tradewise said when the vehicle was stolen it hadnt  
been in the course of a journey or parked at Mr Hs home. So the theft wasnt covered by his 
policy. 
Mr H complained but Tradewise didnt change  its decision. It still refused  to pay the claim.  
Mr H wants it to be paid.
Our Investigator  said Tradewise had refused the claim fairly and in line with Mr Hs policy  
terms. Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. So its come  to me for a 
final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making 
Tradewise pay the claim or do anything  differently.
Mr Hs policy  terms says Tradewise will provide  insurance whilst a vehicle is at his residence 
or whilst its being used or parked during a journey.   
When the vehicle  was stolen it wasnt at Mr Hs residence. Neither was it being  used or 
parked during a journey. Hed left it at his friends house. So Tradewises decision that the 
theft isnt covered by the policy is fair and reasonable.
 
Mr H says he wasnt made aware  that theft would only be covered in limited  circumstances.  
But it seems  he was sent a Key Facts document when the policy  was set up. This explained 
cover only applies at his residence or during the course of a journey. So I think  it was 
brought to his attention.  
So Tradwises decision  to refuse the claim was fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Tradewise Insurance  Company Limited  pay 
Mr Hs claim or do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0172321