K821x#15complaint
B, a private limited company, has complained  that Bank of Scotland  plc wont refund two 
fraudulent cheques from its account.
Miss B is the sole director and shareholder.  She is the authorised  representative for B.
background
B was formed in 2002. Miss Bs father, the late Mr B, started  the company. He was its sole 
director and shareholder  until March 2018,  when he sadly  passed  away.  Mr B had been 
terminally ill. He was in hospital in December  2017  before moving  to a hospice in January 
2018 where he remained until March 2018.
There were two authorised signatories on Bs account: Mr B and Miss H who was, and still 
is, the company  secretary.
In February 2018,  Ms R (the late Mr Bs widow) presented two cheques  from Bs account, 
each for £65,500,  and made payable to her. The cheques bore a signature for Mr B. They 
were dated  5 and 13 January 2018.  Two further  cheques dated 16 and 23 January 2018  
were written  out to Bs contractors to settle company debts.
On 9 February 2018, Mr B executed a will leaving his estate to his three children. On 
13 February 2018, he appointed his children as his attorneys under a power  of attorney. 
Miss B said her father was still checking the companys accounts while in the hospice. He 
had noticed money  was missing. She said he told her he hadnt signed the cheques and he 
hadnt given Ms R permission to write  out the two cheques made  payable  to her. Miss Bs 
brother obtained  copies of the cheques from the bank at their fathers request on 
14 February 2018. Miss B said the signatures on the cheques  didnt match her fathers 
signature.
Miss B raised a fraud complaint with Bank  of Scotland on behalf  of B. She said Bank of 
Scotland shouldve suspected fraud because Ms R had presented two cheques  payable to 
herself even though she wasnt  an officeholder of the company,  a shareholder or creditor.  
The cheques were  presented over three  days and the total value was most of the funds in 
Bs account. And Miss B said if the bank had checked the signatures, it wouldve seen they 
didnt match her fathers signature. Miss B said Bank of Scotland  was liable for the 
companys losses. She asked for a refund.
Bank of Scotland investigated  the complaint and refused to reimburse B. It said:
the cheques  were signed by Mr B.
it had checked  the signatures against  Mr Bs signature, which  it held on file, and they 
were a good match.
Ms R informed  it that the money would be used  to reduce debts  owed by her and 
Mr B, principally  the reduction  of a credit  card account, a mortgage and a car finance  
agreement. It said it was reasonable to assume,  therefore, that Mr Bs estate 
benefited from the cheque payments.
it was up to Mr B to decide  how he wanted to use the companys money  as sole 
shareholder at the time.
Ref: DRN04070392The bank acknowledged its delay  in responding to Bs complaint and paid it £300  in 
compensation.
Miss B didnt agree with Bank of Scotlands  decision and so she asked this service to 
investigate. She said Ms R didnt use the money  to settle her fathers debts or Bs debts. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Bs complaint. She said she couldnt reasonably conclude that 
Bank of Scotland made an error  or that B had suffered a material financial inconvenience 
because:
the signatures on the two cheques were an adequate match to Mr Bs signature.
theres not enough evidence showing the signatures were forged.
Mr B had total control over the company.  It was up to him how he chose to use the 
funds before his death. Ms R was his wife and it wasnt implausible that he gave her 
money before he died.
Miss B didnt accept  our investigators  view.  Shes  asked for an ombudsmans final decision 
on behalf of B.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 April 2021.  I didnt believe the evidence indicated  B 
had authorised the two cheque payments to Ms R. Bank of Scotland would have to refund B.
B accepted  this outcome.  No response was received from the Bank of Scotland.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion I did in my provisional  decision. As I 
received no dissenting comments, my findings follow  to explain why Ive reached the 
decision I have.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make without undue  delay,  in accordance  
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. Ive noted that the bank mandate  
for Bs account states that payments may be subject  to a return confirmation telephone call. 
And taking  into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider Bank  
of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  
Ref: DRN04070393Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
Having carefully considered all of this, I consider that there were reasonable grounds for the 
bank suspecting there was an attempt to misappropriate Bs funds and Im not persuaded 
that it took proactive steps to protect  Bs account. Ill explain how Ive reached my decision.
Ive looked at the signatures on the two disputed cheques. Ive also seen  a copy  of the 
mandate form, which Mr B signed when he opened the account for B. And Ive seen his 
signature on his will. 
We are not handwriting  experts  but neither party has submitted any expert evidence on 
this point, so we must make a judgment based  on common  sense and what we can see. In 
my opinion, the signatures on the cheques differ significantly from the signature on the 
mandate form. And they are remarkably different from the signature on the will. The 
signature on the will looks like a scribble, which is consistent with someone terminally  ill 
struggling to hold a pen. The signatures  on the cheques are nothing  like it and, in my 
opinion, are bolder  in their strokes, suggesting the author could hold a pen. 
Bank of Scotland didnt know about Mr Bs illness so I dont think  its fair to say it shouldve  
known his handwriting had changed  or that he wouldve been unable  to write cheques. 
However, the differences between the signatures  on the cheques and the signature on the 
will are so striking  that, on the balance  of probabilities, I am satisfied that someone else 
wrote and signed all four cheques. No party  has provided independent evidence  to rebut this 
assumption. In the absence of such, it is fair and reasonable to conclude  that the cheques  
were forgeries. I have therefore  proceeded on the basis that these were unauthorised 
cheques, which means  in the circumstances the bank  should  refund them.  
Its plausible  Mr B authorised Ms R to write out and sign the cheques for him. And the 
payments to the two contractors lend some  weight to this view.  But this isnt what Ms R told 
Bank of Scotland. However, the signatures are not the only indications  of fraud or 
misappropriation. The nature and value of a transaction may also be an indicator of fraud.  
Bank of Scotland said the value of the cheques  wasnt  unusual for this account or business 
of that nature and scope. I disagree. In this case,  each cheque  was for £65,500. The 
balance in the account on 23 January 2018 was £168,532.49.  The value of the two disputed  
cheques was almost 80% of Bs funds.
Ive looked at the bank  statements for 2014 to 2018.  The company did use cheques  
frequently. However, in this four-year  period, the largest cheque  was for £25,000 and there  
were only four cheques  valued between £12,000  and £25,000. The remaining  cheques were 
for £5,000  and below. The statements dont show the names of the payees. B had few 
creditors  mainly Mr B as an employee, an insurance company, phone providers, HMRC 
and a publisher (which  I assume was an advertiser). According to the Companies  House 
register, the nature of Bs business does not automatically suggest there would be large and 
Ref: DRN04070394frequent payments in and out of the account (e.g. if it were  in fact the sort of business 
suggested by the bank).  Theres nothing to suggest transactions  of this nature in the 
statements. 
So, it seems  to me Bank  of Scotland doesnt have persuasive evidence  to support its 
assertions that such payments wouldnt have flagged as unusual  or uncharacteristic for this 
customer or account. Based on the account  statements,  I think  the two cheques, each for 
£65,500, which was the bulk of the funds in the account, were  sufficiently  unusual  for the 
account to have fairly and reasonably triggered  some sort of fraud alert before the cheques  
were finally settled. In other  words,  the bank had an opportunity to intervene, make discreet 
enquiries of the authorised signatories, and potentially prevent  the loss  but it didnt. 
In addition, the cheques were made  payable to Ms R, the person presenting them over three 
days (arguably suspicious in itself). Again, looking  at the statements, B hadnt made any 
payments to Ms R in the past. She wasnt a director, officer, employee, client  or known 
creditor.
Bank of Scotland said Ms R had told it the money  would  be used to pay off debts which she 
and her late husband owed. Its not clear how it got this information. I presume it spoke to 
Ms R during  its investigations.  As neither she nor Mr B were the customer or accountholder 
in their personal capacity,  then I consider  that the bank shouldve  asked  additional questions  
of an authorised signatory or, in line with the terms and conditions of the contract, made a 
return confirmation telephone call when presented with the cheque.  Moreover, it shouldve 
questioned why B would  settle  the debts of third parties. It is important to bear in mind that 
even a sole director owner is a separate  legal entity from his limited  company. 
Ive considered that Mr B was the sole director and shareholder and, ultimately, he could 
have been a beneficiary of the funds  while  he was alive (albeit  subject to any other company 
liabilities, such as creditors, employee  salaries, etc  because a director owner cant treat 
company assets  as though they were his own).  But the statements show  he drew a monthly  
salary of around £2,700 and didnt pay himself  large sums from Bs account.  Miss B has 
confirmed that Mr B didnt  have  a mortgage, credit  card account  or a car finance  agreement.  
I dont know what the larger  cheque payments were spent on. Its possible they were  for his 
personal benefit, but I have no evidence proving this.
Mr B made a will in February 2018. Ms R wasnt a beneficiary under the will. On Mr Bs 
death, the shares in the company passed to his beneficiaries who were his three  children.  I 
understand that some of the companys assets were used to settle  Mr Bs outstanding debts 
and liabilities. So, the loss of £131,000  wouldve  made a difference  to Bs assets and as the 
total value was almost  80% of the funds in the account, a material  difference.
Miss B said that Ms Rs own business submitted an invoice and remittance to Bs accountant  
for rent totalling £131,000  for 2013  to 2018. I presume Ms R relies on the invoice as 
evidence that B owed  her company rent (despite  her telling  Bank of Scotland that the money 
was used to pay other  creditors). Miss B said she hasnt seen a rental agreement. Ive 
looked at the address for the rented premises. I cant  see any connection between  the 
premises, which appear to be a car park,  and B. I have doubts about  the authenticity of the 
invoice.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that Bank of Scotland failed to distinguish  
between Mr B and B, which was its customer and account-holder. This alone might  not have 
had an impact on B if the disputed cheques had been used to settle its debts or Mr Bs 
Ref: DRN04070395testamentary debts  and expenses. However,  Im not persuaded that they were  used for 
these legitimate purposes.
The terms of the mandate  state that payments may be subject to a return confirmation  
telephone call. There were two cheques, settled three days apart, for a total of £131,000. 
This was most of the money in the account. The cheques were unusual  for the account. I 
consider there were  grounds  for a confirmation call. There was also a second  signatory to 
the account  the company secretary. She was still company secretary  in 2018. So, if the 
bank couldnt  reach  Mr B, it couldve called her. Had it made  the call, it wouldve  found out 
about Mr Bs illness and, subject to further  questions, it couldve stopped the cheques if, as I 
believe, they were  unauthorised. There is no evidence that Bs directors or officers acted 
carelessly or compromised the security of the account in breach of contract  or were  
otherwise wholly or partly  to blame for what happened. In the circumstances,  I am satisfied  
that it would  be fair and reasonable for the bank to refund  the lost monies  with interest.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to uphold this complaint and instruct  Bank of 
Scotland plc to:
refund  the two disputed cheque payments totalling £131,000; and 
pay 8% simple interest per year from the dates  the cheques were  cleared from Bs 
account on 5 and 8 February 2018  until the date of settlement (less any tax properly 
deductible). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0407039