K822xcomplaint
Mrs K is unhappy about the service shes received from TSB Bank  plc in relation to her bank 
accounts. 
background 
In April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its IT system. For around four months, Mrs K 
was unable to log on to her online bank accounts because her user ID had been changed. 
She says that not being able to view her accounts online caused her significant  stress 
because she wasnt able to check that her funds  were safe. Mrs K says that she made  
several telephone calls to try and resolve the issue but she was unable to get through to 
TSB.  
TSB said its possible that Mrs Ks user ID had been changed during its system migration 
which meant that she couldnt  log on. It provided Mrs Ks bank statements which  we shared 
with her. Mrs K said that shes satisfied her funds were safe and there  had been no 
unauthorised activity on her accounts  during the four month period. Mrs K confirmed  to us in 
September 2018 that access to her online accounts had been reinstated.  
Mrs Ks statements  show  that she regularly transfers  money between her current  account 
and her Classic Plus account. The usual terms of the Classic  Plus account are that a 
minimum amount must be paid in each month and the customer  must register for Internet 
banking and paperless statements in order to benefit from a higher  interest  rate. 
Mrs K says that shes lost out on the interest  from her Classic Plus account  because she 
couldnt transfer any money into it whilst  she had no online banking access. She also says 
that she spent  around £50 on telephone  calls trying to resolve  the matter  with TSB.
An investigator here upheld the complaint and recommended £150 as compensation 
because Mrs K had been unable  to access her account online for some  months.  Mrs K 
disagreed with the amount and referred  to an article  where a TSB customer  was awarded 
around £500 in compensation due to the IT issues. Another investigator  reviewed  the case 
and agreed with the award of £150;  she also offered to ask TSB if it would  agree  to pay a 
further £90 for loss of interest and money spent  on calls.  Mrs K said she wouldnt accept this 
and considers that £500 compensation is warranted in her circumstances. 
As Mrs K remains unhappy,  the case has been  passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigators.  Ill explain  why. 
Its clear that TSB had problems with its IT systems  which affected Mrs K. And its right that 
TSB should compensate her for the impact  its caused, so far as is reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case.  
Mrs K says that the IT problems caused  her significant stress because  shes not been able 
to access her money to make transfers  and hasnt been able to check if her funds are safe.  
TSB has told us that Mrs K wasnt registered for telephone banking  so couldnt use this 
channel to update her records  and I understand that the nature of Mrs Ks employment made 
Ref: DRN03198912it difficult for her to visit a branch during the weekdays. I sympathise with Mrs K and 
acknowledge that not being  able to easily check her accounts must have been worrying for 
her.
Mrs K says that she spent  a long time on the telephone trying to resolve matters with TSB. 
Im aware TSBs phone  lines would have been  busier than usual during this period and I 
accept that repeatedly trying to get through would have caused Mrs K some frustration and 
inconvenience. Im pleased for Mrs K that online  access to her bank accounts  has since  
been reinstated. 
Mrs K refers  to an article in the media where another TSB customer received around £500  in 
compensation due to IT issues. However, we consider every case on its individual merits 
and consider the particular impact on a consumer  when  considering  compensation. 
Taking everything into account,  its clear that this situation has caused Mrs K some material 
distress and inconvenience and so I agree that a compensation award is warranted. I 
consider that £150 to reflect her non-financial loss is a fair and reasonable award. In 
addition, TSB should pay Mrs K £50 for telephone  calls and also pay her for the loss of 
interest on her Classic  Plus account  for the four months that she couldnt access  her account 
online. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
If it hasnt  already done so, TSB Bank  plc should pay Mrs K £150  for the trouble and upset  
caused to her. 
It should also:
calculate and pay Mrs K the loss of interest  on her Classic  Plus account for the 
period she didnt have online access 
pay Mrs K £50 for the telephone  calls made to TSB Bank  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0319891