K822xcomplaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) hasnt done enough to prevent tax 
being deducted from dividends paid on his investments held within a self-invested personal  
pension (SIPP).
background 
Mr D complained to Barclays in September 2017 after it changed the platform  through  which 
he managed his SIPP. Mr D was concerned that dividends took a long time to reach his 
account and that tax had been  deducted on these dividends, even though  the investments 
were held in a pension. The investments Mr D was concerned about were Real Estate 
Investment Trusts (REITs)  and the dividends were  Property Income Distributions (PIDs). 
At first Barclays said the delays were due to the change in its platform and that tax had been 
deducted in error  it paid Mr D £150  for the inconvenience caused and said it would arrange  
for the tax to be reclaimed. But as the tax continued to be deducted,  Mr D brought  his 
complaint to this service.
Barclays said it was waiting for HMRC to process  claims  to recover the tax, but this would 
take up to three months  this was said in December 2017. One of our investigators looked 
at the complaint and thought, as Barclays had tried to get the tax back, it had done enough 
to resolve the complaint.
But by April 2018  the tax hadnt  been reclaimed, so the complaint was looked  at again  by 
this point Mr D said £823.97 had been  deducted in tax. Mr D thought the problem was that 
Barclays hadnt told the REITs that the investments were held in a pension, so should  be 
paid gross. Barclays accepted it hadnt been as clear as it could have been and offered £50 
for the further  inconvenience. But it said its process  was to reclaim  any tax on dividends paid 
net, something that was normally done once it received vouchers showing how much  tax 
had been deducted.
After our investigator spoke with Mr D and Barclays again, he recommended  the deducted 
tax should be paid into the SIPP by Barclays and that it should  pay £300 for the 
inconvenience caused. Barclays responded to say it agreed to pay the further  £300,  but that 
its processes didnt allow it to contact  the REITs to arrange the dividends to be paid gross. 
And it explained that the tax would  be claimed  annually.
In July 2018 our investigator issued their final view.  He recommended,  amongst other  things, 
that Barclays allow Mr D to move  his SIPP to another provider without paying a fee and pay 
the deducted tax to Mr Ds pension. He also recommended  that Barclays increase the total 
amount of compensation for the inconvenience  caused to £650.
As Barclays didnt agree  with the view,  the complaint was passed  to me for a decision. After 
considering all of the available  evidence  and arguments, I came to a slightly different 
conclusion to the investigator. So I issued a provisional decision in September  2018 setting 
out my thoughts.
I looked at how PIDs  were  taxed and I thought Mr D was right that it was possible  for them  to 
be paid gross if the underlying REIT investment was held in a pension.  And I didnt think  
Barclays had ever explained to Mr D that its position  wasnt  to arrange  for the PIDs to be 
paid gross, rather that it reclaimed the tax paid annually. And I thought  he had been told a 
Ref: DRN02337242number of different  things  by Barclays, for example that tax would be reclaimed monthly  
when in reality that wasnt the case.  I felt this meant Mr D had lost faith with Barclays and 
wanted to transfer  his pension.
I explained I dont  have the power to tell Barclays  to change the way it chooses to do 
business. But I did think Mr D had lost out as he still hadnt, at the time of my provisional 
decision, received  any tax rebate.  Mr D said he was in the process of transferring his REIT 
investments to another SIPP and I thought Barclays should cover any costs to him of doing 
so. And if there was any loss in value in the REIT investments  during  transfer,  I said I would 
consider that in my final decision.
At the time of my provisional decision, Mr D said the amount of tax deducted was just under 
£2,000. I asked Barclays to set out what tax had been  deducted, what  it had done so far to 
claim it back and give a timescale of when  it was likely to be repaid. I indicated I was 
considering directing Barclays to reclaim  all of the tax immediately and if it wasnt credited 
within 56 days of being applied for, for Barclays to pay the amount reclaimed into the cash  
fund of Mr Ds SIPP.  But this would  be on the basis that Mr D signed a declaration agreeing 
that Barclays could  retain  any funds  received  from HMRC.
I also thought  Barclays should pay Mr D an additional £600  due to the inconvenience caused 
on top of the £150 it had already paid him.
Mr D agreed with my provisional  decision and said he was happy to sign any declaration to 
allow Barclays to reimburse itself once the tax was reclaimed. He confirmed that, although 
the value of his REITs fell, he couldnt  say this was the result  of anything Barclays  had done 
so he didnt ask for any further compensation. By 2 December 2018 Mr D said the deducted 
tax had reached £2,189.87. And Mr D said he had transferred his REITs to a new SIPP  
provider, which had now started receiving dividend payments gross of tax.
Barclays didnt agree with my provisional decision, raising a number of points.  It explained 
that there  were three businesses that operated Mr Ds Barclays branded SIPP   Barclays  
provided the investment services, one business  operated the scheme administration  and 
another business was the scheme trustee. Barclays said it provided  Consolidated Tax 
Certificates (CTCs)  for its customers to the scheme administrator, who then processed the 
tax reclaims for all of Barclays  customers  in bulk. Once the tax reclaim was processed,  it 
was then passed back through the scheme administrator to Barclays  to apply to the SIPP 
accounts. Barclays said HMRC rules allow up to four years  to reclaim tax, but it was done 
annually for its SIPP  customers. 
Barclays was concerned that if it paid Mr D an amount equivalent to the deducted tax, it 
could be difficult to recover this if the tax was paid to him later on. That would also put him in 
an advantaged position compared to its other customers. And Barclays  said that as it dealt 
with multiple customers in bulk, it wasnt able to contact REIT providers about tax for an 
individual client.
Barclays said if it wanted to recover any reclaimed tax from Mr D it would  need  its legal and 
risk department to draw  up an agreement for him to sign, which  could take some time. It was 
concerned with the tax implications of paying  money  into and then taking  it out of a SIPP  and 
Barclays were  concerned about  the enforceability of any agreement if Mr D were to pass  
away.
Ref: DRN02337243In answer to my request,  Barclays provided Mr Ds CTC for the tax year 2017/18. It shows  
that £823.97 of tax was paid on REIT PID dividends  this was the only tax paid on anything 
invested in the SIPP.
Barclays explained that an application  to reclaim  the tax paid in 2017/18 had been made for 
Mr D in November 2018. It offered to work  out 8% per year simple  interest against the 
amount outstanding on the 2017/18  CTC from 4 January 2019 (56 days from when reclaim  
was sent to HMRC)  until the date it was paid. And it offered to top up the refund to the total 
amount reclaimed if HMRC didnt  pay it for any reason.
Barclays said any tax reclaimed following a transfer would automatically be sent by the 
scheme administrator  to the new SIPP provider. But it said it would see if it was possible to 
reclaim the tax paid in 2018/19  if Mr D had moved  his SIPP  to another provider. And if he 
hadnt moved all of the assets held within his SIPP, but planned to, it would try to help Mr D 
move his assets as quickly  as possible  to another provider and provide a telephone point of 
contact so he could  try to trade during any transfer.
Barclays agreed with the level of compensation for the distress caused as set out in my 
provisional decision, so it agreed to pay £600 on top of the £150 already paid. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going  to depart  from my provisional conclusions.
Ive read the terms and conditions that governed how Mr Ds SIPP  was operated. Having 
done so, I cant  see any terms that deal with how Barclays were  to recover tax in 
circumstances such as Mr Ds. As there  isnt a contractual  term that helps, I have to decide  
whether Barclays has treated Mr D fairly in the way its tried to recover the tax.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, its not my role to set how Barclays  should operate  its 
business. But in considering whether Barclays has treated Mr D fairly Ive had to consider  
whether he has lost out by Barclays approach in the circumstances of this particular case. 
And I think he has.
The background to this complaint sets out that Mr D has been  asking  for the tax to be 
reclaimed for over twelve months  and, as of the date of this final decision, I havent  been told 
that anything has been repaid. Barclays has now said an application  has been made for the 
return of the tax paid in 2017/18, but this was done over six months after the end of the tax 
year.
Im concerned that if I dont direct Barclays to do something, there is a real risk that it will 
take some  time for Mr D to receive the tax that was deducted. And I have to take into 
account that the tax probably  would  not have been deducted if Barclays had told the REITs 
that the investments were held within a SIPP  Mr Ds new SIPP  provider has arranged for 
the PIDs  to be paid gross. Im also concerned that this delay has meant  these funds havent 
been available for investment and that it has delayed Mr D closing his Barclays  SIPP.
Ive thought about what Barclays  has said about  reclaiming the tax. I think  its proposal for 
the 2017/18 tax year is, on the face of it, sensible. But I dont think the proposal  for the 
Ref: DRN023372442018/19 tax year is likely to give Mr D finality. And although I understand Barclays  concerns 
about Mr D being  paid the reclaimed  tax twice into his SIPP  once from Barclays and once  
from HMRC  I think the risk of the tax not being  repaid at all is greater, given nothing has 
been recovered in over eighteen months.
Mr D has said he is happy to come  to an agreement such that if Barclays pay to his SIPP the 
amount of deducted  tax, he would be happy for Barclays  to take back anything recovered  
from HMRC. I note that any money  Barclays would need to recover  would be paid, in the first 
instance, to the business  that runs the scheme administration.  And the money would be held 
by the scheme  trustee on behalf  of Mr D, not by Mr D himself. So I dont think  any 
agreement would be overly complicated  or difficult to arrange  as Barclays can deal with both 
the scheme administrator and trustee directly. 
what Barclays needs to do to put things  right
So for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision,  I find that Barclays  must do 
the following:
Barclays must apply, or arrange for the pension administrator  to apply on its behalf, for 
the repayment of all of the tax that has been  deducted on the PIDs  paid on the REIT 
investments held in Mr Ds Barclays SIPP.
Now that Mr Ds REITs have been  moved  to another SIPP provider, Barclays  should 
provide him with a breakdown of the tax that has been deducted,  either in a CTC or in 
another form.
If the total tax hasnt  been repaid by HMRC within 56 days of the date of this decision, I 
direct Barclays to pay an amount  equivalent to all of the tax that has been  deducted  into 
Mr Ds Barclays  SIPP. If his SIPP has closed by then, Barclays should pay that into the 
SIPP Mr D has moved his pension  to.
Barclays has offered to add 8% per year simple  interest to the tax reclaimed from 
2017/18 from 4 January  2019,  if it hasnt been  received by then, until it is paid. I agree 
that is fair.
If Barclays is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ds SIPP,  it should pay that amount 
directly to him. But the total amount should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income 
tax that would otherwise  have been paid at retirement making an allowance  for any tax 
free cash that can be taken.  
Barclays should provide Mr D with any declaration it wishes  for him to sign within  56 
days of this final decision. But, for the avoidance  of doubt, I think it is fair for Barclays to 
keep any tax rebate it receives if Mr Ds SIPP has already been  credited with the same 
amount before. I note that Mr D has already said he agrees with this and that he is 
bound by this final decision  if he accepts it.
As Mr D has said he moved his REIT investments  to another  SIPP provider without 
incurring any costs  and doesnt think Barclays are responsible  for any loss in value, I 
make no award for this.
Barclays should pay Mr D a total of £600  for the inconvenience hes been  put to. This is 
in addition to the £150 that has already been paid.
Ref: DRN02337245my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Barclays Bank Plc and direct it to 
calculate and pay compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0233724