K820x#14complaint
Ms T has complained about the block  that was placed on her Virgin Money plc account and 
the subsequent customer service  that she received. 
Ms T is being represented in this complaint, but for ease Ive referred  to all actions and 
comments as being those of Ms T.
background
Ms T and the additional cardholder called Virgin Money, as Ms T was having trouble 
accessing her account online. Virgin Money  acknowledge  that Ms T had to wait more  than 
45 minutes of this call to speak to an advisor.
Ms T called Virgin Money again a few days later, with the additional cardholder. She was 
looking to ensure there was a direct debit  correctly set up for payments to the account and 
had been unable to access it online.  Ms T then spent more than 45 minutes again, waiting to 
speak to an advisor. Ms T was told that there  was a block  on the account and was 
incorrectly told it was due to a system error.  During this call Virgin  Money acknowledged the 
time that Ms T had spent  waiting to speak to someone and offered £20 compensation.
Ms T remained  unhappy with the block that had been placed on the account  and the 
customer service  she had received.  Virgin Money  wrote to her to apologise for the delays 
shed experienced in speaking to an advisor  and offered her £50 for the inconvenience  
caused. They did however, state that the block had been correctly  applied to the account as 
part of their security procedures.   
Our investigator concluded that Virgin Money had acted fairly when blocking the account and 
that the offer of £50 was fair and reasonable compensation  for the impact that the delays 
and misinformation  had on Ms T. 
Ms T did not agree with this and the case has been  passed to me to issue  a final decision. 
She maintained that the impact was more significant than the compensation amount. She 
remained unhappy that she had been given wrong information and with the amount of time 
she had to wait to resolve the issue. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable, in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive taken into account the 
difficulties caused  by Virgin Moneys actions,  though  under our rules I only have  the power to 
make an award in relation to Ms T
I can see that there was a block on this account that was limiting access for Ms T. I 
appreciate that this will have been  frustrating. I have checked  whether the block  was applied  
fairly. Virgin Money have  provided me with documentation to show  that the block  that was 
placed on the account, was due to security  measures.  
The terms and conditions  of the account state that Virgin Money may prevent or limit access  
to the account  in certain circumstances. I have  been  provided  with system notes to show  
that the block on the account was due to a previous caller verification attempt. I am satisfied 
that they have  acted  fairly and in line with the conditions of the account. 
Ref: DRN01575502When attempting to resolve this Ms T did have to make two phone  calls, was on hold for a 
considerable amount of time during both calls and was given incorrect information  as to the 
reason behind the block on the account.  I understand that this will have caused 
inconvenience to her. 
Virgin Money offered  £50 because they accepted they had given  wrong information and that 
the waiting times to speak to an advisor  had fallen below the standards they expect of 
themselves. In the circumstances, I think this is reasonable and Im not going  to tell Virgin 
Money to do anything further.  I say this because apart from the incorrect information and 
long call waiting times they acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions  
of the account.
my final decision
Virgin Money has already  made an offer to pay £50 to settle  the complaint, and I think  this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that Virgin Money  plc should pay Ms T 
£50. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0157550