K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs Y says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs Y disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ys case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs Y aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding the 
policy to her card. Mrs Y has told us she didnt tick the option to take the PPI herself  on her 
application form. I have  looked at the application form and can see that the option to take 
PPI was selected before the form was printed. But I think its likely this option was selected  
as a result  of a conversation Mrs Y had with the FICL representative. Mrs Y also signed  the 
form in agreement with the options selected.  With this in mind I think its more likely  FICL 
made it clear  that the PPI was optional and that Mrs Y chose to have it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs Y so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs Y got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs Y about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ys 
sick pay, and for longer than she would  have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ys circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN04683142Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0468314