K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 
alongside a credit card. Mrs R says Lloyds Bank PLC, mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Although I have only included some  of the complaint points made by each party,  I have read 
and considered all the evidence and arguments available  to me from the outset, in order  to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs R says she wasnt aware  the PPI was optional and it was added without her consent.  
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form Mrs R saw and signed. In this there  is a 
section for PPI where there is a tick in the box to agree to the cover, but there  is nothing  
here to suggest  the PPI had to be taken out. Mrs R signed this document so I think  this 
reflected what she wanted at the time. So, based  on the evidence Ive seen, I think Lloyds 
made it clear  that Mrs R didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Mrs R says she cant remember if she wasnt given any advice or recommendation to take 
out the PPI. Lloyds dont know either  but theyve treated this as an advised sale. Our 
adjudicator assessed this case as an advised sale and neither party responded to disagree,  
so Ive also considered  this to have been an advised  sale in my decision.
As an advised sale Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs R  and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a 
need for the cover.
Mrs R says the PPI wasnt suitable for her because she was entitled to sufficient sick pay 
from her employer so she wouldve had no difficulty maintaining her repayments. Mrs R told 
us she he had six months full sick pay, followed by six months  half sick pay. The PPI 
wouldve covered  10% of Mrs Rs outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 months   which  
wouldve been in addition to her sick pay and for longer  than her full sick pay entitlement 
wouldve lasted. And so she couldve used these funds for other expenses. And I think  the 
PPI wouldve  been especially  useful when her sick pay reduced  to half. So overall I think the 
PPI wouldve  been useful and I dont think her sick pay entitlement meant the policy  wasnt  
suitable for her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But the evidence suggests she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN04300292my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0430029