K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is closing  the local branch  of his bank, and wont  let 
him choose which branch his accounts  are transferred to.
background
Mr S discovered that the local branch of Lloyds, where he holds  several accounts, is closing. 
Lloyds has said this is the case, and Mr Ss accounts will transfer  to the next nearest branch. 
It says his account number and sort code wont change, and he can carry out transactions in 
any branch.
Mr S doesnt  think thats good enough,  as he wants  to have face-to-face meetings with his 
bank  and wants  that to be in a branch of his choosing.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.  She thought  Lloyds was 
entitled to make a commercial decision about which branch will hold the accounts.
Mr S remains unhappy, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint.
Lloyds has made a commercial decision about where Mr Ss account will be held, and I 
wouldnt challenge that. And Lloyds  says Mr S can carry out transactions in any branch. That 
should include meetings, so I see no reason why these cant  be in Mr Ss preferred location.  
It does appear a different branch name  might  be printed on Mr Ss cheques going forward, 
even if his account number and sort code doesnt  change. But theres nothing about that, in 
itself, that should  affect how Mr Ss accounts  operate. If the branch name shown on his 
chequebooks is important  to Mr S, he does have a way of getting an account at the branch 
of his choice  he could open  an account  there by visiting the branch in person next time 
hes nearby.  
I appreciate Mr S wants to choose  which branch his accounts move to, but Ive seen  no 
reason why the service the bank  offers would be affected, wherever the accounts are 
located. Its not appropriate for me to ask Lloyds to do something differently now just in case  
something goes wrong in the future. 
Ref: DRN02931022my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0293102