K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  incorrectly marked  her car as 
a Category C total loss which caused  her financial loss when she sold it.
background 
In April 2016, Mrs Ts car was repaired by Advantage following a road traffic accident. But
Advantage incorrectly recorded the car as a total loss on their database.
Mrs T didnt become  aware of this until July 2018 when she tried to part-exchange her car 
and use this towards the purchase of her partners new car. As her car was recorded  as a 
total loss, the dealership refused to accept the car. The marker meant that Mrs T wasnt  
able to use the car towards the new purchase  and had to pay more  money towards this. 
This resulted in her having a car she didnt  need  and it being  kept off the road. She says the 
car wasnt being used  and that reduced  its value.  She says she was also out of pocket  from 
having to insure  this car as well as the new one, and pay for it to be taxed and then MOTd 
in order to sell it. She says she ended  up being paid a much  lower price than she was 
originally getting  for part-exchange.
Advantage accepts  they made  a mistake by marking the car as a total loss on their 
database and awarded Mrs T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  this 
caused her. They dont  feel more  compensation is warranted as they rectified the error 
within two days once  made aware.
The investigator at this service agreed with Advantage and didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs T didnt  agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
On 31 May 2019, I issued  my provisional  decision.  I said:
Mrs T said she wasnt  able to part exchange her car when she wanted to and as a result had
to sell the car for much  less  for £600  rather than the £2000  she was offered for the part-
exchange. On balance  it is likely  that Advantage are responsible for her not being to do this.
It is possible that Mrs T suffered financial loss as a result but I havent  been provided 
anything which makes  me think she probably  did. I asked Mrs T to provide  further  
information to confirm  the part exchange value that she was given but she hasnt provided 
anything to confirm  this. She told us that her car was in road worthy condition  when the part 
exchange was offered  but hasnt provided any further information  to support this. She also 
hasnt provided  any detail of the condition of the car at the time of sale so it isnt clear  if or 
why the car has deteriorated in value in such  a short space of time. In the absence of all 
this information  Im not persuaded that Mrs T has suffered the financial loss that she said 
she has. So Im not going to ask Advantage to do anything further in this respect.
I have to look at not just any financial  loss Mrs T has suffered  but also the impact
Advantages error had on Mrs T. Advantage  accepted the error they made in incorrectly 
recording the total loss marker and they did rectify  this within two days  of being notified. So 
I dont think they could have done more about the total loss markers that were  showing 
with other  businesses. But the impact this error  had on Mrs T went  further  than the two 
days it took Advantage to rectify. Shes had to take time out to investigate  as it wasnt 
initially clear why the marker was there  particularly  as the accident  that lead to the marker 
was more than two years earlier. The marker  meant  that the car was showing as a total 
Ref: DRN04261132loss and so the dealer wouldnt accept it. So Mrs T couldnt sell the car when she wanted  
to. As a result shes been left with a car for longer than she would have. She also had to 
arrange for an MOT  of the car because it had expired.  This is something she wouldnt 
otherwise have had to do.
So I am persuaded the error Advantage made in recording the total loss marker did result in 
distress and inconvenience to Mrs T. I dont  think that Advantage have sufficiently 
compensated for the level of distress  and inconvenience Mrs T has suffered through no 
fault of her own. Advantage have already offered Mrs T £150  but I feel this is inadequate 
and they should pay Mrs T another £150 in addition  to the £150 already offered.
responses to my provisional  decision
In my provisional decision,  I gave both parties until 14 June 2019 to respond with any further 
comments and information.  Mrs T accepted the provisional decision. Advantage did not 
respond with anything further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs T nor Advantage responded with anything further  to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional 
findings, I uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Advantage Insurance  Company 
Limited. They should pay Mrs T £150 in addition to the £150 already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0426113