K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly  declined  a claim they made 
for storm  damage under their buildings  insurance  policy.
background
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs M said their conservatory was damaged by a storm. They  contacted 
UKI to make  a claim. UKI assessed the damage and said it wasnt  covered as the bad 
weather hadnt  been severe  enough to class as a storm under the policy. And it said there 
was existing wear and tear to the property  including the flashing of the roof  and this was 
excluded. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and brought their complaint  to our service. They provided further 
evidence including  testimony from their neighbours, and pictures  they said showed weather 
damage to nearby trees from the time.
B said the initial review  found the damage  wasnt storm related. But as Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed it appointed a separate  glazing expert  to review the damage for a second opinion. 
They found  the problems had arisen from the general age and condition of the conservatory.
 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She felt the weather conditions at the time  due 
to the heavy rain and strong winds  did amount to a storm. But she said it didnt seem the 
main cause of the damage was the storm, and instead it was the general age and condition 
of the roof. And she said this is excluded as wear  and tear under the policy. So she didnt 
uphold the complaint and said UKI had acted reasonably by declining  the claim.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and questioned the experts experience and competence.  Our 
investigator said in the absence  of Mr and Mrs M providing an opposing expert opinion, she 
was satisfied UKI had acted fairly  in this case. Because Mr and Mrs M disagreed, the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
When considering  a case of this nature,  I will have to answer three  questions.
1.Were there  storm conditions  on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2.Was the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ref: DRN02966312If the answer  to any of these questions is no, then this claim will not succeed. So Ive 
answered these in turn.
Were there storm conditions  on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
A storm  generally involves violent  winds, usually accompanied  by rain, hail or snow.  Having  
considered weather reports from the time, it does appear there were strong winds  and heavy 
rainfall around the time  at its peak around  16.4mm per hour.  Taking this into account 
alongside Mr and Mrs Ms descriptions and evidence, Im satisfied the poor weather  should  
be considered  as a storm under this policy. 
was the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
From what  Ive seen, the damage caused to Mr and Mrs Ms property does seem in line with 
damage caused by poor weather. This hasnt  been disputed by UKI so Ive not considered 
this point further.
Were the storm conditions  the main cause of the damage?
To answer  this question  Ill need to consider whether  the storm was a main or dominant  
cause of the damage, or whether the damage  was either already there or whether the storm 
simply highlighted an existing problem.  
Mr and Mrs M have  said their property did not have  any existing problems. Ive read a report  
produced by UKIs expert  glazers. This says: In our expert opinion  the issues the 
policyholder is experiencing stem  from the general age and condition of the conservatory.
It goes on to detail  damage problems identified  within the roof system and says the engineer 
highlighted areas of the roof where previous repairs had been carried  out. They say these 
repairs had now failed  which indicated the problems were pre-existing.
Having carefully read the report and examined  the photos within  it, I think this heavily 
suggests the main  cause  of damage to Mr and Mrs Ms conservatory was related to its 
condition, rather than the storm. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, but have provided no expert 
opinions to support  what  theyve  said. So Im persuaded that UKI has fairly declined this 
claim in line with the policy terms.
UKI has also relied on a general policy condition that says it doesnt cover  wear and tear. 
Based on what Ive said above, Im satisfied the damage in question  is related to the general 
age and condition  of the property. So I think UKI has acted fairly by applying  the wear and 
tear exclusion in this case.
Taking this into account, Ive also considered  whether  UKI should cover this damage under 
any other part of the insurance policy. Having done so, I cant  see the claim could be 
considered anywhere  else.  But even if it was, Im satisfied it wouldnt be covered due to the 
general condition  excluding wear and tear.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Ref: DRN02966313Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0296631