K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  with the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled  their 
home insurance claim for water damage  to their home.
background
In November 2016 Mr and Mrs D noticed a leak in their bathroom. They  made a claim to UKI 
who sent out loss adjusters (C) to assess it. In late November C sent a scope of proposed 
works to Mr and Mrs D. They  werent happy with it, in particularly over the type of materials 
to be used for flooring. They set out their objections to C. After some delay in responding C 
agreed that Mr and Mrs D would obtain  quotes  from contractors of their choice. 
Mr and Mrs D sent the first quote  to C in February 2018. C queried  several  items in the 
quote and suggested that Mr and Mrs D obtain a second quote. They  had already done  this, 
and sent it to C. Again there  was a delay on Cs part, but it then suggested there be a further 
site visit by contractors appointed  by C. Mr and Mrs D resisted this as they felt that C had 
had all the information needed. They made an initial complaint to UKI and then to this 
service. That complaint was resolved by the parties agreeing on another site visit. The new 
scope of works essentially agreed  with Mr and Mrs Ds contractors quotes. They agreed that 
certain items  would  be removed from the quote as contingencies, and agreement was 
reached and a cash settlement made  in early January 2018.
UKI paid £150  compensation  for the initial  delays  in the claim. Mr and Mrs D didnt think  that 
was sufficient  they felt that UKI was responsible for a years  delay at a time when they had 
a premature baby  in the home. On referral to this service our investigator thought that, in 
light of the delays and failures to respond  to communications, UKI should increase the 
compensation to £500. Mr and Mrs D werent  happy  with this, and the matter has been 
passed to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
communication
I think, certainly in the early stages of this case, C was very slow at responding to the 
queries over the scope of works that Mr and Mrs D raised in November  2016.  They  had to 
send several emails chasing this. I understand that the emails went to a general mailbox and 
Cs representative had to give Mr and Mrs D an individual  address. This meant there  was a 
delay until early January  2017 in telling Mr and Mrs D to get quotes. And when  they had 
those quotes by mid-February Mrs D had to send one quote through three  times before  C 
acknowledged it. Mr and Mrs D had to chase C several times for a response.  C took until 
early April to suggest a site visit. Mr and Mrs D were reluctant to agree this and wanted to 
pursue their complaints initially with UKI and then through this service.  Once  they had had a 
view from this service  as to how they should proceed,  Mr and Mrs D agreed to another site 
visit, which took place  in late November 2017. The appointed contactors agreed largely with 
Mr and Mrs Ds contractors, particularly over the materials. Mr and Mrs D then sent a 
number of chasing emails to C before  the cash settlement could be finally agreed.
Ref: DRN09356902I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D must have been frustrated by the poor communication in 
having to keep chasing up C in the early stages  and then having  to chase it for a settlement.
delay
Theres no doubt that the failures to respond did cause a delay in the early stages, as Ive 
set out above.  Mr and Mrs D feel that if C had responded  to their queries over the scope of 
works in late November 2016  by carrying out a site visit then,  there wouldnt have been a 
years delay. With hindsight that might  have happened. But I dont think  I can criticise Cs 
suggestion that Mr and Mrs D obtain quotes, especially as it was likely that Mr and Mrs D 
would have wanted a settlement so they could instruct their own contractors. Its unfortunate 
that the whole matter  was put on hold while  Mr and Mrs D pursued their complaints.  While I 
appreciate that it was Cs conduct of the claim that led to their complaints, I dont think UKI 
was to blame for the matter taking a year to settle.
queries over the scope of works
Mr and Mrs D have pointed out that, taking into account some matters which they have 
agreed will be contingencies,  the settlement they reached was largely in line with what  their 
contractors had quoted. And there  was quite a large difference,  essentially related to the 
flooring which  was hardwood rather than laminate and the bathroom flooring which was 
terracotta rather than ceramic. I do rather think that whoever drew up the original  scope 
should have noted the quality of the flooring. It was fortunate that Mr and Mrs D had the 
means to instruct their own contractors. I cant award compensation for what  might  have  
happened but I take into account the inconvenience  actually caused.
compensation
I have noted the original  compensation  paid of £150. Our investigator  thought  that it should 
be increased to £500  (a further  £350). Having considered the issues  Ive set out above 
I think thats a fair and reasonable  settlement. Ive taken into account  the delays caused  by 
UKIs and Cs actions (which are seen to be UKIs actions or failures  anyway), but overall the 
compensation figure is in line with what weve awarded in similar  cases.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require UKI to pay Mr and Mrs D £500 compensation. Having 
paid £150 already it must pay them the balance of £350.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0935690