K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the way he was treated when he purchased a mobile phone with 
finance from Caversham  Finance  Limited (trading as BrightHouse).
background
In June 2015 Mr P went onto the BrightHouse website and completed an online application 
for credit for a mobile phone.
Mr P says that once  he had completed  his application he received a message saying hed 
been approved  and asking him to go into his local store with proof of income.
Mr P says that when  he visited the store he was told that he couldnt have the phone he had 
chosen online. He was offered a different  phone  which he says was an inferior  second hand  
model. Mr P says he needed a phone so he agreed to take the phone he was offered and 
entered into a credit  agreement.
Mr P says that after he had paid two instalments under the agreement the phone  stopped  
working. He returned  the phone to the store but says he was told it could take 8 weeks  to be 
fixed. Mr P was offered a replacement  phone  in the interim  but he wasnt happy with the 
model so he decided to end the credit agreement.
Mr P isnt happy that he couldnt have the phone he chose on the website. He thinks this is 
an example of a widespread practice  by BrightHouse. Mr P is unhappy that the phone  he 
was supplied with stopped working  after a short time. Hes also unhappy that BrightHouse  
didnt respond  to his complaint. 
Mr P wants  a refund of the payments hes made towards the phone together  with 
compensation.
Our investigator said that although it was understandable that Mr P was disappointed that he 
couldnt have  the phone  he chose  on the website, there was nothing to suggest that 
BrightHouse had acted  unethically. The investigator  said that it looked as if the phone had 
some issues  when  Mr P returned it in September 2015 but that the offer of a replacement  
phone whilst  his phone  was being repaired was reasonable.
In relation to Mr Ps complaint about service issues, the investigator found that BrightHouse 
hadnt responded to Mr P nor had it provided any explanation for the failure to respond.  The 
investigator recommended that BrightHouse pay compensation  of £80 to Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he was told that he couldnt have  the phone  hed been approved  
for online as soon as he arrived at the store and before any verification checks had been  
completed. He was unhappy that BrightHouse hadnt taken any steps to investigate his 
complaint and said that the information it had provided to this service was selective.
BrightHouse didnt agree  either. It didnt think it should have to pay compensation to Mr P 
because it had sent a holding letter in response to his complaint apologising for the delay 
and giving referral  rights to this service.
Ref: DRN06844362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information provided by BrightHouse that Mr P made  an online application 
for a mobile phone on 15 June 2015. BrightHouse has explained that applications for credit  
could be made online  but that all applications  were referred to store for verification of 
identity, income and affordability.
The information provided by BrightHouse shows that when Mr P completed his online 
application he was approved for credit of £10 per week and was therefore able to choose 
any phone  within that limit when he went to the store.
I dont know which phone  Mr P chose on the website but on the available information it 
appears that the cost of the phone originally chosen  by Mr P exceeded the amount of credit 
for which he had been  approved. This was why he was invited to choose a different 
(cheaper) phone when he went to the store.
I understand why Mr P feels  frustrated. He thought he had been approved for a specific 
phone but (based on the information provided)  he had been approved for a weekly  credit of 
£10.
I havent seen  any screen  shots of the information  Mr P would have seen when he 
completed his online  application so Im unable to say whether the application  process was 
confusing or misleading.  But on the available evidence, Im satisfied that Mr P was approved 
for a credit limit rather than a  specific phone and therefore Im unable  to say that 
BrightHouse acted unfairly or unethically when Mr P visited the store.
Mr P returned the phone to the store in September 2015. I can see from the information 
provided that the phone  was sent for maintenance on 11 September  2015 and was 
refurbished on 12 September 2015. So on balance it seems likely that there was a problem 
with the phone, albeit  one which was resolved quickly. Mr P has said that he was offered  a 
replacement phone whilst his phone was being  fixed. This is what  I would have expected  
BrightHouse to do. Theres no evidence to show what  model of phone  Mr P was offered as a 
temporary replacement  but provided that it had the same functionality as Mr Ps phone  then I 
think BrightHouse acted  reasonably. I dont think its fair to ask BrightHouse to refund  the 
payments which  Mr P made because the phone was functioning correctly until September  
2015 and Mr P had use of it.
I can see that Mr P contacted BrightHouse with his complaint  on 16 February 2018. I can 
also see that Mr P telephoned BrightHouse on 5 March  and 21 March chasing  a response.  
BrightHouse sent a holding letter to Mr P on 13 April 2018 but have never  issued a 
substantive or final response.
BrightHouse hasnt provided an explanation for its failure to respond  to Mr Ps complaint 
within a reasonable time.  Mr P has suffered inconvenience by having to chase up his 
complaint on two separate occasions.  The failure by BrightHouse  to respond substantively  
has made the experience more time consuming  and distressing for Mr P than it needed to 
be.
Ref: DRN06844363For the reasons  Ive given, I agree with the investigator and uphold  the complaint in part. 
Caversham Finance Limited  must  pay compensation of £80 to Mr P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0684436