K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold private medical  insurance  (PMI)  by Pier
Insurance Brokers  Limited (Pier).
Background
Mr and Mrs H say that in November 2016 they were contacted  by Pier who told them they
could arrange  alternative PMI, with a different insurer at a better price, which provided the
same cover as their existing  policy.  Mr H had previously had surgery  for glaucoma and was
on annual monitoring,  so hed seen a doctor  in the last 12 months. He says he told Pier
about this. But when Mr H needed  treatment for his eyes  his claim was declined  by his new
insurer, as it said he hadnt declared  his check-up when his policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to Pier which didnt provide a response  to their complaint.
Mr and Mrs H then complained to our service.  Our investigator requested information about
the case from Pier, but despite reminders  it failed  to provide this. Mr and Mrs H no longer
had a copy of their previous insurance policy but provided the investigator with their new
policy document. Their  old policy was fully medically underwritten and there were no
exclusions for eye conditions. So our investigator  was satisfied Mr H would have been
covered for the treatment  he needed for his eyes if hed kept this cover.
She recommended the complaint be upheld and that Pier pay compensation to
Mr and Mrs H equivalent to the premiums theyd paid for the policy Pier recommended,  plus
interest at 8% simple  from the date each  premium was paid to the date of settlement.
Pier didnt respond to our investigators opinion so the case came  to me for a decision.
I made  my provisional decision on 16 August 2019. In it I said:-
Pier didnt respond to our investigators opinion. Before preparing my decision I contacted
Pier and it asked  that we re-send our request for information. This was done but Pier has
failed to provide  our service with any information.
As Pier has failed to provide any information I can only consider Mr and Mrs Hs complaint
on the basis of the available  information.  Pier has told us that the policy  was sold to 
Mr and Mrs H by an authorised representative,  who it no longer  does  business  with. This 
doesnt make a difference to my decision in this case as Im satisfied that Pier is responsible 
for the sale of the policy.
Ive considered the information Mr and Mrs H have provided in respect  of their previous PMI
policy. The earlier  policy  didnt include any exclusion for eye conditions,  so Im satisfied the
eye treatment Mr H needed would  have been covered by this policy.
Mr H has said he told Pier about  his check-ups.  Pier hasnt provided any evidence, so based
on the available evidence, I accept that he did and that Pier failed to pass this information on
to the new insurers.  As a result of this cover was started for Mr and Mrs H which wasnt
suitable for them, as Mr H lost the cover he wanted for continuing treatment for his eyes.
So I accept  that Pier mis-sold the new PMI policy to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr H has told us that hes privately funded cataract  surgery on both his eyes  for which he
paid £5312. Hes also told us that he requires  a trabeculectomy for his right eye to relieve
Ref: DRN09708162the intraocular pressure.  His consultant  has recommended  that he has this surgery in the
next few months.  The estimated cost of this surgery is £4205.
Mr H has also told us that he required two visual field tests  recommended by his treating
consultant, one in October  2018 and the second  in May 2019.  Each  of these  tests  cost £55.
As Ive said Im satisfied  Mr H would have  been  covered for treatment for his eyes  under his
earlier policy, I think Pier should pay for his cataract surgery and for the trabeculectomy  hes
been told he requires  and for which he is currently on the NHS waiting list. Pier should also
pay Mr and Mrs H interest  at 8% simple on the £5312 they paid for Mr Hs cataract surgery
from the date they paid for each surgery.
Mr and Mrs H have suffered trouble and upset as the result of the mis-sale  of the policy  and
Mr H will have no cover  for his eye condition in the future.  So I think  Pier should pay them
£500 as compensation for this.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Since I made my provisional decision Mr and Mrs H have  said that they accept  my 
provisional decision.
Pier has not responded to my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs H have  accepted my provisional decision and Pier has not responded to it I 
see no reason to change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Pier Insurance Brokers Limited. And to put things  
right I require it to do the following:-
pay £5312 in respect of Mr Hs cataract  surgery, together with interest at 8% simple
from the date the payments were made.
pay £110 in respect  of Mr Hs visual field tests,  together with interest at 8% simple
from the date the payments were made.
pay £4205 in respect of the estimated cost of Mr Hs trabeculectomy  for his right eye.
pay Mr and Mrs H £500 for trouble and upset.
This is a total of £10,127 plus interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Ref: DRN09708163Patricia OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0970816