K822xcomplaint
Miss M and Mr F complain that Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly  and unreasonably  
when dealing with their mortgage  application. They want more  compensation.
background 
Miss M and Mr F applied  to Nationwide for a mortgage in order  to buy a property. They said 
that Nationwide reduced the amount it was willing to lend at a critical stage, which  meant 
that they lost the property. Miss M and Mr F said Nationwides conduct  made  them ill.
Miss M and Mr F complained to Nationwide. It said Miss M and Mr Fs first application  failed 
early on as it wasnt affordable. A second application to borrow less was made (in order to 
buy a cheaper property) and a decision in principle given over the phone. But Nationwide 
pointed out that decisions  in principle  werent a guarantee of lending, though it had been 
produced using incorrect figures  for Miss M and Mr Fs income as its staff hadnt  noticed that 
the income was now lower than when the first application was made (benefit payments had 
been reduced). 
Nationwide also accepted that its staff had continued to make mistakes in dealing with the 
income issue, but the income issue was why it couldnt lend as much  as Miss M and Mr F 
wanted. It paid £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, said it would consider 
paying solicitors  fees if evidence  was provided  of the work  done and the amount charged, 
but refused to pay for time taken off work as appointments couldve been made to suit 
availability. Nationwide also refused to remove the credit search from the credit  records  as it 
was required to make an application.
Miss M and Mr F complained to us. Miss M said that the adviser hadnt explained that a 
decision in principle wasnt guaranteed  and made  her distressed by his tone. She also said 
that Nationwide kept saying the original decision in principle still stood. The adviser said he 
did explain  that the decision in principle wasnt guaranteed and he had apologised 
repeatedly for his mistake regarding the income.  The investigator spoke to a witness  to a 
conversation between Miss M and the adviser, who said that the adviser had been 
unprofessional, rude and defensive.
The investigators view was that Nationwide should pay more  compensation. As the decision 
in principle was given over the phone, Miss M and Mr F didnt see the standard  wording 
telling them that it wasnt a guarantee of lending but instructed and paid solicitors  to act on 
their behalf  in buying the property on the strength of that decision.  While the investigator  
understood that the adviser had warned Miss M and Mr F about the nature of a decision in 
principle, the investigator pointed out that as it wasnt confirmed  in writing, there was always 
a high risk of consumers  misunderstanding the position. He didnt think Nationwide  did later 
tell Miss M the original decision in principle could be relied upon as hed listened to the call  
Miss M was told it wasnt certain.
The investigator said that he couldnt be certain what  happened between Miss M and the 
adviser when she returned  to the branch, but all agreed that Miss M had asked to see 
someone else. Nationwide sent the adviser  to see Miss M as he was the only qualified  
member of staff, but the investigator  thought  someone else couldve seen her, particularly 
bearing in mind her disability and strength of feeling. He thought Nationwide  should pay 
another £100 compensation  and refund the solicitors fees if evidence  was provided.
Ref: DRN08977072Nationwide agreed  with the investigators view but Miss M and Mr F disagreed.  They wanted 
£1000 compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes, but to ensure that consumers are put 
back into the position that they shouldve been in all along. Nationwide accepts that it 
shouldve dealt with Miss M and Mr Fs application  better and used the correct income for 
the application. That said, if the mortgage  is unaffordable, Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably in refusing to lend, and decisions  in principle  arent guarantees of lending.
This means  that all I can look at is whether Miss M and Mr F suffered financial loss due to 
Nationwides errors and the compensation  which  should be paid for the trouble and upset 
caused. Nationwide offered to repay  the solicitors fees, subject to evidence being  provided. 
The investigator said the same, though he added that he was satisfied that the solicitors 
were instructed because  Nationwide  didnt clearly explain  that the decision in principle 
wasnt a guarantee  of lending. I agree.
While Miss M says Nationwide  kept telling  her that she could rely on the decision in principle,  
that isnt what the calls show and the adviser  didnt do that based  on her own account. I think 
Miss M didnt fully appreciate what she was being told, and Nationwide  didnt realise this. I 
think its likely that the same thing happened  about the decision in principle  Miss M thought 
that it was an offer of lending, wasnt given the standard warning  in writing that it wasnt  and 
the explanation from the adviser wasnt sufficient to ensure she understood the position.
Mr F doesnt seem to have suffered much  trouble and upset having looked at the evidence  
available to me. Miss M appears to have suffered considerably more. I have no doubt  that 
finding out she couldnt borrow  as much as the decision in principle  said or the adviser said 
(and its relevant  to note that the adviser used the incorrect income to calculate  the amount  
which could be borrowed)  upset  Miss M greatly. And having to deal with a member of staff 
that she made it clear  that she didnt want to meet increased her distress. I think that its 
more likely than not that the adviser  did apologise,  but expressed  the reality  of the situation 
poorly and insensitively given the accounts  of Miss M, the witness  and the adviser himself. I 
think its fair and reasonable for compensation for trouble and upset to be paid for these 
failings.
But money never truly compensates  for trouble and upset. And I must  consider this services 
guidance about such compensation. £1000 is a sum which we award for the most severe 
cases of trouble and upset, and is far above the amount I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Having considered everything, I think a total of £300 compensation (so 
an extra  £100) is fair and reasonable. I wont award  compensation  for the upset caused by 
not getting an offer of lending which mightnt have been affordable, but I do include the upset 
caused by raised  expectations. Theres no objective  evidence that either  Miss M or Mr F 
were made ill purely by Nationwides  failure.
Ref: DRN08977073my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Nationwide  Building Society should pay 
another £100 compensation  to Miss M and Mr F, together  with the solicitors fees if evidence 
of the work done and charged  for is provided. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr F to accept or reject  my decision before 
21 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0897707