K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a standing order he set up to buy Premium Bonds with National 
Savings and Investments (NS&I) was returned  to his bank account  without  an explanation 
from NS&I.
background
In January 2018, Mr H went in to his bank and completed a standing  order  form. The 
standing order was set up to buy £150  of NS&I Premium Bonds each month. But Mr H found 
that between February  2018 and April 2018,  each of the standing  order payments had been  
returned without  any explanation.
Mr H says he hadnt asked for the standing order to be cancelled  and hes unhappy that 
NS&I didnt contact  him about this. Mr H also feels he was disadvantaged because  he would 
have had extra bonds in prize draws  in March 2018  and April 2018 but for the problem with 
the standing order.  Mr H feels he should  be compensated for this.
NS&I say that because  Mr H used the incorrect reference number on his standing order 
mandate the payments  had been  returned.  They say they have an automated  payment 
system which means that when their system doesnt recognise the reference number, the 
funds are automatically returned  to the customer without any human intervention.  So, they 
say they were unable  to let Mr H know what had happened.
Mr H was unhappy with NS&Is response so he brought his complaint  to our service.  Our 
adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt  think it should be upheld. He said he didnt 
think NS&I misled Mr H about which reference number to use when completing the standing 
order form. He also thought that NS&I  acted reasonably in returning the payments to Mr Hs 
account.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that he doesnt think NS&I made it clear what reference number he needed  to use 
when completing  the standing  order form. And had he been told to complete the form online 
he wouldve included the correct reference  number- the holder number, rather than the NS&I 
account number  which wasnt correct.  He says the holder number wouldve been the only 
option on the online form.
NS&I have sent me a copy of the call between  Mr H and NS&I  in December 2017 which Ive 
listened to. In this call, the advisor told Mr H to complete a standing  order  form at his bank 
and that he must put the holder number as the reference number and nothing else. The 
advisor also asked  Mr H if he knew  what his holder  number  was and Mr H confirmed  he did.
Based on this, I think Mr H ought  to have been aware about what reference  number  he 
needed to use when completing a standing order form. Im satisfied that Mr H was given 
enough information and I cant say that NS&I didnt make this clear.
Ref: DRN03307162Mr H has said he shouldve been advised to complete an NS&I standing  order  form. Without 
this, he says the error wouldnt have happened. I do understand his point. However, there 
was more than one way to set up a standing order, and there was no particular duty on NS&I 
to direct him to do it in a certain way and not another.  As I have already said, the information 
they gave him was correct. 
Mr H says that although he didnt use the correct reference number on his standing order  
form, he believes NS&I had enough  information to be able to trace his account. 
As NS&I explained, their payment  process  is automatic, so if the reference number wasnt  
recognised the money would be returned  straight  away. Because  of this, NS&I say they 
couldnt have  notified Mr H. I cant know if Mr H would  have  won in the monthly prize draw 
had the bonds which werent bought  been entered, but I dont think  NS&Is payment return  
process was unreasonable. And I dont  think there  was any obligation on NS&I to contact 
Mr H when the payments  failed. 
Overall, I dont  think NS&I have done anything wrong. So I dont think  it would be fair for me 
to require them to compensate Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0330716