K820x#14Complaint
Ms P complains  that Aviva Insurance Limited wont pay her buildings  insurance claim for 
water damage.
Background
Ms P says damage to the wall of her conservatory was caused by a leaking pipe, following 
work carried out on her boiler by a third party. So she made  a claim under her buildings  
insurance policy with Aviva.
Aviva sent its surveyor to Ms Ps house to assess the damage. The surveyor  concluded that 
the damage that may have  been caused  by the leak from the pipe could  be repaired for 
£110. But Ms Ps policy had an excess of £145, so Aviva  didnt  accept her claim.
The surveyor detected  high moisture readings  at the bottom of the same  wall and also at the 
bottom of the opposite  wall. He concluded  that this moisture was likely to have resulted from 
another cause   possibly rising damp. But, as rising damp isnt an insurable  event under   
Ms Ps policy, Aviva wouldnt accept her claim for that damage.
Ms P complained to Aviva as she says the cost to repair the damage is £500  and the 
damage was caused by the leaking pipe  not rising damp. In its response,  Aviva disagreed, 
maintaining that the cost to repair the damage  that it accepts was caused  by the leaking pipe 
is less than the excess payable under her policy.
Ms P asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator thought Aviva hadnt  done 
anything wrong. He said he thinks Aviva followed the terms of Ms Ps policy and acted fairly 
and reasonably in dealing  with her claim. He also asked Ms P to supply any evidence that 
would support her claim about the cost of repairing the damage and the cause of it. 
Ms P didnt agree with our investigators findings, so her complaint has been  referred  to me 
for a final decision.  She hasnt provided any further  evidence. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
To reach my decision, Ive thought about whether  Aviva reasonably  declined  Ms Ps 
complaint, given the report it received  from its surveyor and the events for which Ms Ps 
policy wording says shes insured. 
Ref: DRN02294922With regard to water damage, Ms Ps policy wording says it will pay for damage caused  by 
water escaping from any fixed water  installation or hearing system. But it says it wont pay 
for damage  caused  by faulty design, material and workmanship. The general exclusions 
section of Ms Ps policy includes loss or damage  caused by Any other  gradual  cause  except 
for subsidence, ground heave or landslip in its list of uninsured risks. So that means it wont  
pay for damaged  caused by rising damp as that is a gradual cause. 
I know that Ms P disputes the assessors conclusion that some of the damage was caused 
by rising damp. But shes not provided  any evidence to support this, such as a report  on the 
damage from an alternative expert.  Without  any contradictory evidence  of that type,  Im 
minded to accept  that the findings of Avivas surveyor are likely to be correct. I say this 
because Ive seen  no reason to doubt any of the findings in the surveyors  report. 
Ms Ps policy renewal schedule confirms  theres a compulsory excess  of £95 and a voluntary 
excess  chosen  by her  of £50. This means  £145  would  be deducted from the any claim 
made under the policy. So, if the total cost to put right the damage caused by an insured 
event is £145  or less, no payment would  be made  to Ms P for the claim under the policy.
Avivas survey estimated  the repair cost to the damage caused by the leaking pipe at £110.  
Ive seen from the surveyors report that this covers the costs  to prepare, add stain  block to 
and repaint the area affected.  I know Ms P disputes  the accuracy of this figure.  But, again, 
Im minded  to accept  the estimate of Avivas surveyor without contradictory evidence from an 
alternative expert.
Overall, I can understand that Ms P is disappointed with the surveyors assessment  of the 
damage and Avivas conclusions on what is covered under her policy.  But Ive not seen  
sufficient contradictory  evidence to conclude that Aviva has handled her claim unfairly. I 
think Aviva  has relied on a credible assessment of the damage and I think its applied the 
terms of Ms Ps policy  reasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint  about  Aviva Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0229492