K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2006. Mr R and Miss H say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr R and Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think NatWest  most likely made  it clear  that Mr R and Miss H didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it. I say that because NatWest  has provided the 
actual documentation  from the time of the sale.  To get the cover  Mr R and Miss H 
had to select it. It seems most likely  this was done following  a discussion with the 
representative. I note that the consumers declined other  insurance offered by 
NatWest at the time. Mr R and Miss H signed the form agreeing to its contents. So it 
seems most likely that Mr R and Miss H did choose the cover  and did so knowing 
they had a choice about it  although  I can understand why they cant remember  this 
now, many  years later
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R and Miss H so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr R and Miss H got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr R and Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been   such as details of how much the policy would cost. But 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it seems  they were  eligible 
for the policy and it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions from 
or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that Mr R and Miss H told us that Mr R 
had sick pay that would not have  lasted more than three months. Whilst Miss Hs sick 
pay was good  initially it dropped significantly after six months. Mr R and Miss H also 
told us they had no other  means  they could have relied on in that circumstance or if 
they lost a job. This PPI policy could have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr R and 
Miss H were  too ill to work for a long time and would have done so in addition to any 
sick pay arrangements Mr R and Miss H may have  had. And the policy  would have 
paid out for up to 12 months if Mr R and Miss H lost a job. So, I think the policy would 
have been useful to them if something went wrong.  So, considering all of the above, I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI and its cost would have put Mr R and 
Miss H off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R and Miss H have  said - including  what they have said 
about the case, but these  points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr R and Miss H paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
Ref: DRN04738082NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr R and Miss Hs PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr R and Miss Hs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about 
the commission  so I dont think NatWest treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay Mr R and Miss H back  any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0473808