K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that CMME Mortgages  And Protection Limited abused his data and refused  
to allow  him to exercise his right to be forgotten. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr O had two mortgages,  which were arranged for him by CMME (a broker) in 2017. Mr O 
complained that CMME  had contacted him. CMME  explained that as part of its terms of 
business which Mr O had accepted, it agreed to contact him about his mortgage and to keep 
records. 
CMME accepted that in 2018 Mr O had asked  for his data to be deleted but it said that it had 
contacted him in 2019 to tell him that his mortgage product was about to end, which  was 
lawful and legitimate. CMME noted  that Mr O now didnt wish to be contacted, recorded that 
on its system,  and deleted what it could (it had to keep some  records  under the current 
mortgage rules, which  it said was lawful). CMME  apologised that some contact was made 
after Mr O asked for his data to be deleted; this was due to the emails being created before 
Mr O made  the request  and the system  incorrectly being triggered to send those emails.
Mr O complained to us. The adjudicators view was that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
He said that CMME told Mr O in 2017 that it would contact him when his mortgage product  
was about to end. The adjudicator also said that complaints about data protection breaches  
was a matter for the Information  Commissioners Office, not this service,  and that it was 
lawful for a financial  business  to keep  records. He said that CMME shouldve ensured that 
no information was sent to Mr O after his request, but felt it had acted fairly by apologising 
and deleting what it could  (and explaining  why it had to keep records). Mr O disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This service doesnt  deal with complaints 
of breaches of data protection  law; thats  for the Information Commissioners  Officer to 
resolve. This service  can though look at whether  a financial  business has generally acted 
fairly and reasonably when dealing with a mortgage.
Financial businesses, as CMME has explained to Mr O, are required by the regulator to keep 
records and information  used for the purpose  of checking if a mortgage is suitable for three 
years. This is lawful and legitimate   a consumers consent isnt needed  to retain  such  
information. The reason for this rule is to ensure complaints raised later can be fairly  deal 
with and to allow compliance audits of financial businesses to be carried out. CMME is 
acting fairly  and reasonably by refusing to delete  such data.
CMME was asked to delete  Mr Os data;  Mr O can withdraw his consent  so that his data 
cant be used for marketing purposes. I accept that CMME was in the process of deleting  
such data, but its system  was accidently triggered to contact  Mr O. But I dont  think  this 
mistake means Mr O should receive  compensation and complaints  solely  about data 
protection isnt a matter for this service. And I dont think  it was unfair or unreasonable to tell 
Mr O that his mortgage product was about  to end; Mr O was told in 2017 that he would be 
updated so he could review his position.  
Ref: DRN01042632I note that CMME has deleted what it can, apologised and said Mr O wont  be sent 
information again. This is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 23 
November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0104263