K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2000. The policy  was taken  out at the 
same time as Miss W applied for an Egg credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ive looked  at the PPI screen Miss W wouldve  seen during her application  for the 
credit card.  This gave her the options  Yes, I would like to protect my repayments 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.  (I understand that by clicking  on this 
box I confirm that I have read and agree to the terms of the repayment  protection 
policy.) or No, I do not wish to protect  my repayments and I understand that it will be 
my responsibility to keep  up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my job. 
The options  were set out with equal prominence. Ive also seen a copy  of the 
application report for Miss W. This recorded  the information Miss W provided during 
her online application,  and the choices  she made.  There is a Y flag for PPI showing 
Miss W selected  the cover during the application  process. Miss W says the box was 
automatically pre-ticked  on all Eggs online applications at this time but I havent 
found any other evidence to support  her claim.  Miss W said she felt pressured to take 
out PPI but her sale was completed  online,  theres  no evidence she had any direct 
contact with Canada  Square Operations during the process. So I cant conclude it 
pressured her.
Overall Im satisfied Canada Square  Operations made it clear to Miss W that PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it. 
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W, so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable  for her. It was up to her to decide, given the other  ways  she 
had to make her repayments if she wasnt working.
 
Its possible Canada Square  Operations didnt give Miss W all the information about 
the PPI that she needed before she made  her decision. But it seems Miss W chose 
to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of cover.  She wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy  was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable. 
Ref: DRN08835512Miss W told us she was entitled to six months  sick pay but the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to this and for up to 12 months.  She had savings worth 3 months  
salary but the PPI would  have allowed her to use these to cover  other  living 
expenses whilst not working. She also said her parents would have helped, but thats 
not suitable alternative protection.  Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances 
can change. So, on balance, I think it unlikely Miss W wouldve  made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  
It follows that I dont think Miss W has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0883551