K820x#14complaint
Miss K is unhappy with Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited (Markerstudy) because  it 
declined her stolen  car claim, voided  her car insurance policy and kept the premiums. 
background
Miss K took out a comprehensive car insurance policy through a broker in January 2018  
following some  quotes she obtained through an online comparison website. 
The insurance was originally set up with Alpha Insurance as the underwriters. In May 2018, 
after Alpha Insurance went out of business, the policy was transferred to Markerstudy on the 
same terms.
On 1 June 2018, Miss Ks car was stolen between  the hours of 3:30am and 6:00am.  Miss K 
notified the police and Markerstudy. She completed  a claim form and Markerstudy  set to 
investigate the theft further. Through this further investigation, it discovered there was no 
garage at Miss Ks property and she had been parking the car on her (walled)  driveway 
behind the house, where there  was a locked gate. When she took the policy  out, Miss K had 
told Markerstudy her car would be parked in the garage. But as the car wasnt ever parked  in 
a garage, Markerstudy confirmed to Miss K it would  be voiding the policy  from inception  and 
treating it as though it had never existed. It therefore also declined  the claim and retained  the 
insurance premium she had paid so far that year. 
Unhappy with the decision, Miss K made a formal  complaint to Markerstudy.  It sent Miss K a 
final response and confirmed to her again  that the policy  would be voided and the claim 
would not be paid because it thought Miss K deliberately misrepresented  the information. 
Miss K brought the complaint to this service and our investigator looked into it. He didnt 
uphold the complaint and also thought  Miss K deliberately misrepresented the facts  when  
she took the policy out. He said this would have impacted  Markerstudys decision to provide  
cover and therefore concluded  Markerstudy didnt need to do anything further. 
As Miss K didnt agree  with the investigator,  shes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision. So the case has been passed to me. 
Miss K says:
Markerstudy should have taken extra  care when it agreed to insure her;
It should have  taken pictures  when she took the policy out as it did when she 
submitted the claim;
She doesnt feel Markerstudy supported  her from the beginning when she made the 
application and it didnt do any checks that what she was agreeing to was correct;
Shes not been treated fairly as it makes  no sense why she would have deliberately  
taken out a policy which wasnt correct; and
It will now be difficult for her to get insured on another car and she still has the car 
finance agreement  for another four years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06606122In doing so, I also need to take into account  relevant law and regulations,  guidance and 
standards and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
Because the policy in question was entered into after 6 April 2013, the relevant law I have to 
consider is the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Under this legislation, a consumer  has a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when applying for or renewing insurance. The law sets out a number of 
considerations, which include that insurers should ask clear  and specific  questions  about 
facts they consider to be material to the risk under proposal. An insurer  only has a remedy  
against consumers  if they breached their duty of reasonable care and there was a qualifying  
misrepresentation, i.e. one which  adversely affected the insurers ability to assess  the risk. 
And the insurers remedy will turn on whether the qualifying  misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless,  or merely careless (in which case  there may be a more  proportionate 
remedy than voidance  depending on what would have happened without the 
misrepresentation). The burden of proof lies on the insurer  whos  alleging breach of 
duty/misrepresentation.   
So taking the above into account and to show the policyholders had deliberately not 
disclosed relevant  information to the detriment of its underwriting, Markerstudy first has to 
provide evidence that a clear and specific question was incorrectly answered in breach of 
the duty of reasonable  care; and this adversely affected the risk it was proposing  to cover.  In 
other words, Markerstudy has to provide evidence to show:
What question was asked;
What answer was given; and
The answer given  was incorrect.
Miss K initially completed questions with an online comparison site and answered  questions 
relating to the proposed  risk of insuring the car. Ive seen information provided  by 
Markerstudy which show Miss K completed answers  to questions on the comparison website 
many times and, on some occasions,  the answers were changed. For example, Miss K 
changed her occupation  from designer to interior designer and changed the number of 
miles she was expecting  to do for personal  and business use. Specifically to this case, there  
was a question  on where the car would  have been  garaged. In answer to this question,  
Miss K said her car would be garaged on thirteen occasions and parked on drive  on one 
occasion. 
Ref: DRN06606123Following the initial  quotes provided  to her by the comparison website, Miss K was 
redirected to the broker.  Ive listened  to the telephone call Miss K had with the brokers and 
during this call, they sought to clarify  the discrepancies  in her entries which they received 
from the comparison website. The broker explained  that based  on past experience,  
information could  have been  entered incorrectly and therefore asked Miss K to confirm the 
answers again. She was asked where  she would be parking the car overnight and she 
confirmed it would be in a locked garage  not on the driveway  as she had stated on the 
comparison website. While Miss K has told us that by saying  the car would be in a locked  
garage, she actually  meant the car would be parked within a secure area where there was a 
locked gate. She says her understanding is that this is the same  as parking in a locked 
garage. However, I dont agree  parking a car in a locked garage is quite different to 
parking a car on a driveway which  has a secure  gate. Miss K was given  the opportunity to 
review her answer on the telephone call she had with the broker,  but she confirmed the car 
would be parked in a locked garage. Im satisfied firstly, that Miss K was given the 
opportunity to review  her answer  and secondly,  the question  she was asked  about  where  the 
car was going to be parked overnight wasnt misleading or unclear. 
Ive also looked  at the proposal form which was then sent to Miss K following the telephone 
conversation. Theres a question on this form which asks:
Is the car kept in a locked garage  overnight?  
Miss K answered Yes. 
The proposal form also states: 
WARNING: In entering into this contract of insurance you must take all reasonable 
care in answering all questions in relation to this insurance honestly and to the best 
of your knowledge. Your failure  to take reasonable care in avoiding  
misrepresentation in relation to the information provided could result in your policy 
being cancelled  or your claim being  rejected or not fully paid.
Following her agreement to taking the policy out for the premium quoted, Markerstudy  sent 
Miss K her policy  schedule  and certificate of insurance and she had 14 days to review the 
documentation she received and let the insurer know if anything was incorrect or if she had 
any questions.  I cant see that Miss K contacted the insurer  for any further clarification of the 
information she provided or asked to amend any of the details.
Additionally, there was a specific endorsement  on the policy  schedule  she received which 
said:
Policy schedule endorsement:
Endorsement E117:  Excluding theft when not garaged. 
Theft cover is excluded  in the event of the insured vehicle not being kept in a locked 
garage between  the hours of 10pm and 6am whilst parked at your home address as 
last notified to us.
Markerstudys argument is that Miss K has knowingly given incorrect  information about 
where the car would  have been  parked  overnight.  And having considered the policy  
schedule Miss K received from the insurer  which notified her of the endorsement, Im not 
persuaded that Miss K took reasonable care in correctly  answering  that question  despite 
Ref: DRN06606124being given further opportunities. So, on balance, I think Miss K did make  a 
misrepresentation and breached her duty to take reasonable  care.  
As Ive already  indicated above,  CIDRA  details that an insurer  has a remedy against a 
consumer (Miss K) where the consumer has made a misrepresentation in breach of the duty 
to take reasonable care,  and the insurer shows that, without the misrepresentation, it 
wouldnt have entered into the contract  at all (or would have but on different terms). Such  a 
misrepresentation is referred  to as a qualifying  misrepresentation and is either i) deliberate  
or reckless, or ii) careless.
A qualifying  misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless under the Act if the consumer 
knew the information they provided  was untrue or misleading or did not care whether it was 
untrue or misleading  and knew that it related to something relevant to the insurer  or didnt  
care whether  or not it was relevant.  Otherwise,  the misrepresentation is just treated as 
careless.  
Ive looked at the underwriting criteria  that would have been applicable at the time Miss K 
took the policy out. This confirms that had Miss K correctly told Markerstudy  the car was 
going to be parked on a driveway, it would  only have ever offered  third party  cover  to her. 
Having reviewed the available evidence, Im more persuaded  Miss K made a deliberate  
misrepresentation rather than a careless  one. I say this because I dont think the question 
posed to Miss K about  where the car would be parked overnight was unclear or misleading. 
While she says she understands a garage to be the same as a walled driveway,  this doesnt 
makes sense as she did previously complete the question on the comparison website 
correctly. Miss K was also given  further given further  opportunities to review her answer  
given that she had shown discrepancies in her answers. But she was adamant  in stating 
during her call with Markerstudy  that her car would be parked on a driveway with a secure  
gate. Im not satisfied that her misunderstanding  of the definition of garage is enough and 
overall, therefore, I think her misrepresentation was deliberate. 
  
Ive considered that even if I thought the misrepresentation was at the very least  careless (as 
opposed to deliberate or reckless), Markerstudy would only then be required to provide 
Miss K third party cover  for her car (as its underwriting criteria  said that if the car wasnt 
parked in a garage overnight  then all it could  have offered her was third party cover). And 
this would have  meant  she wouldnt have ever been able to make the claim for theft anyway.
Ultimately, Miss K has found herself in this position by materially misrepresenting  where the 
car would have been stored overnight. She had a duty of reasonable care to ensure she 
fairly presented the risk to Markerstudy  but failed to do so. Its not unreasonable for 
Markerstudy to void the policy. Thats the appropriate remedy for a reckless or deliberate  
misrepresentation. Voidance means  the policy is treated as though it never  existed, so it 
follows no valid claim can arise under it and also premiums would not be refunded to Miss K.  
I appreciate this is a difficult time for Miss K as is still paying for the finance on the car even 
though she no longer  has it. But I dont  think Markerstudy has acted unreasonably or unfairly  
in all the circumstances and bearing  in mind its strict legal rights under CIDRA.
Ref: DRN06606125my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint  against Markerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0660612