K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about the quality of a new car she acquired though a hire purchase
agreement financed by RCI Financial Services Limited t/a Nissan  Finance.
background
Miss B acquired a new car under a hire purchase  agreement with Nissan  Finance in
January 2016  for 36 months.  Miss B says she reported issues with the car in February 2016.
Below is a summary  of the issues complained about by Miss B and the investigation/repair
work carried out by two dealerships (collated from the job sheets provided by the two
dealerships. Some  of the mileages looked  incorrect on the job sheets, so Ive gone  with what
I think was most likely at that point ):
Date Mileage    Issue
16 Aug 2016 around 4,750   whirring noise  when accelerating
The dealership werent able to replicate the whirring noise Miss B reported  but noticed  that
one of her tyres had a nail in it so the tyre was replaced free of charge.
15 Nov 2016 6,534  parking sensors being intermittent 
and audio reception repeatedly cut out. Also, 
Miss B reported a loud noise when accelerating 
the car.
The dealership noticed there was water in the front housing parker sensor so they fixed  this
fault. They updated the audio software as it was noted the existing software was corrupted.
They also replaced  the timing chain to resolve  the loud noise issue.
8 Dec 2016 around 6,719   Miss B felt the car was going faster than the
speedometer indicated.  Also, Miss B says when 
the car was idle, the revs increased from just 
under 1,000  rpm to 2,000 rpm.
The car was taken on a test drive and it was determined that these werent faults  and were
instead, characteristics of Miss Bs car.
7 Nov 2017 13,683 the car battery was dead and the 
car was making the same noise as before 
the timing chain was replaced.
A test was carried out on the battery and the results were that the battery failed,  so it was
replaced at this point.
22 Nov 2017 14,046 Miss B reported the car was again making 
the same  noise as before  the timing chain was 
replaced.
The dealership tested the oil level in the car and confirmed  it was the right level. A
compression test was also carried out but the dealership were unable to replicate the noise.
Its noted the noise was only evident under hard acceleration  and that this wasnt a defect of
Ref: DRN01612592the car and was down to driving style. Miss B complained about the same noise again  in
January 2018.
On 31 August 2018, Miss Bs car broke down and Nissan Finance arranged  for the recovery
of her car to the dealership. Once  the car was at the dealership,  diagnostic  tests were
carried out to determine  if there was a fault with Miss Bs car. In the meantime, Miss B was
provided with a courtesy car on 5 September 2018  - 5 days after her car had broken down
and was taken  to the dealership.
Miss B complained to Nissan Finance as she says she had experienced a lot of faults with
the car and wanted to reject it. On 10 October  2018,  Nissan Finance issued their final
response. In summary they said the dealership ran diagnostic tests  on the car and initially  it
was suspected that the issue was due to the timing  chain.  However,  there had been one
timing chain replaced on the car which was carried out approximately 22 months before. So
it was felt that based on the timeframe, the faults werent linked. Nissan  Finance say the
dealership were instructed to fit a brand  new engine. Miss B requested  to reject the car but
they didnt accept her request. They said that the repair could be done  in line with the
warranty period covered,  so she wasnt entitled  to reject the car.
Nissan Finance asked Miss B to let them  know if she wanted to give consent to proceed with
the warranty repairs. Or alternatively, if she didnt  consent to this, to make arrangements  to
collect her car from the dealership. Miss B initially declined for the replacement  engine repair
to go ahead and said that she wanted to consider legal  proceedings. At this point, Miss B
was told that shed no longer have the hire car whilst she was considering next steps,  which
Miss B was unhappy  about. Miss B then agreed  to have the engine  replaced.
Nissan Finance then confirmed with Miss B that they had informed the manufacturer of
Miss Bs intention to proceed with the repair and for the hire car to be arranged. The job card
for when  the engine  was identified as being  faulty  and needed replacing shows  the mileage
of the car was 20,111.  Miss B confirmed  to Nissan Finance she received her car back  on
3 November 2018.
The dealership say when the gearbox  was removed  to complete the engine replacement,
they noticed the clutch and flywheel were worn  which was due to fair wear and tear.
Nissan Finance said this repair would fall outside  of the warranty cover  but they offered to
cover the repair  for these  as a gesture of goodwill. Miss B didnt agree they had been  worn
down due to fair wear  and tear and didnt feel she was responsible for these issues.
When Miss B received her car back, she contacted Nissan  Finance to say that shes noticed
damage to the bonnet and the paintwork was damaged. Nissan  Finance say they wouldnt
be able to address  this issue  and asked Miss B to contact the dealership herself to let them
know. At this point, Nissan Finance offered to reimburse Miss B £249 (the equivalent of one
finance re-payment)  as a gesture of goodwill. Miss B didnt accept this offer as she said this
didnt compensate her for the inconvenience she experienced.
In December 2018, Miss B contacted Nissan Finance to let them know that her car became
erratic and was juddering  which Miss B says left her scared to continue driving the car.
Miss B managed to take the car to a local garage who carried out a diagnostic  test. They
advised there was an issue  with the fuel getting  to the engine  and so Miss B couldnt drive
her car. Miss Bs car was later recovered,  and Nissan Finance arranged  for Miss B to be
provided with a courtesy car on the same day. In March 2019, Miss B told us she handed  the
Ref: DRN01612593car back to Nissan Finance as she felt like she had to due to the number of issues with the
car.
Miss B complained to Nissan Finance again and reiterated that she wanted  to reject the car
as she didnt feel the car was fit for purpose. Nissan Finance issued another  final response
letter in January 2019. In summary, they say that the dealership had refuelled Miss Bs car
and taken it on a test drive to try and replicate the juddering movement reported by Miss B.
However, it was noted that no faults  were  reported. Unhappy with the way her complaint had
been dealt with by Nissan Finance, Miss B brought her complaint to our service.
Our case handler looked into Miss Bs concerns.  She said considering the age of the car,
she didnt expect the timing chain to have to be replaced at 6,534 miles and she also said
she didnt expect the engine to have  to be replaced at 20,111 miles. Our case  handler said
she didnt think the car was durable  or of satisfactory quality. So, she concluded  that Miss B
shouldve been  allowed  to reject the car when she asked to in September 2018. To put
things right for Miss B, she recommended Nissan Finance to:
Refund the initial deposit with 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
Refund half a months  payment to recognise  the two weeks Miss B was without  her 
car or a courtesy car;
Reimburse £80 for the diagnostic test carried out in December 2018;
Pay Miss B £350 to recognise the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Nissan Finance responded and said whilst they accepted most of the case handlers  view,
they disagreed  with the recommendation to refund Miss B half a months  finance  payment
during October  2018. Nissan Finance say Miss B was provided  with a hire car from
5 September 2018 to 4 October 2018 and that Miss B initially didnt authorise for the engine
to be replaced after she was informed this needed  to be done  in September 2018. Instead,
Miss B said she wanted to reject the car and would  commence  legal  action. So the
manufacturer didnt  think it was fair for Miss B to continue having  the courtesy car for the
time she was considering  next steps.
So our case handler  looked into things again.  She remained  of the opinion  that the car was
of unsatisfactory  quality  but agreed  that it wasnt fair for Miss B to continue having the 
courtesy car whilst she was considering next steps. So our case handler  asked Nissan
Finance to:
Refund Miss Bs contribution to the initial deposit (as part of the deposit was the 
dealerships contribution) with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
Reimburse Miss B with £80 for the diagnostic carried out in December 2018;
Pay Miss B £350 to recognise the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Miss B disagreed. Shes unhappy that she could  no longer buy the car and felt she needed
to hand the car back because of the number of problems she experienced with it. Miss B
also said she was left with no choice but to return the car back  to Nissan  Finance. So Miss B
has asked for a refund of the monthly payments she made towards the car which  she says
was around £9,000. So the complaint has been  passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
Ref: DRN01612594In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
Miss B acquired the car under  a hire purchase agreement, which  is a regulated  consumer
credit agreement. Our service is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Nissan Finance is
the supplier of the goods and is responsible for dealing with complaints  about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  is of particular  relevance  to this complaint.  It says that
under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that the quality of the goods is
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable
person would consider satisfactory - taking into account any description of the goods, the
price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  involving a
car, the other relevant  circumstances  a court would take into account might include things
like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the cars history. The quality of the goods
includes their general  state  and condition and other things like their fitness  for purpose,
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
Nissan Finance supplied Miss B with a brand new car for around £22,000. So I think its fair
to say that a reasonable  person would expect  the level of quality to be higher than a second-
hand, more road-worn car and that it could  be used  free from defects  for a considerable 
period of time.
Its clear from the evidence provided  that Miss B experienced  a lot of issues  with the car
from the point she acquired it. There is no dispute  that there was a fault with the timing chain
which required it to be replaced  at less than a year old  I dont think  its reasonable to
expect this for a car that had been driven  for 6,534 miles.
Miss B further reported loud and unusual  noises coming from the car which  then resulted in
the engine needing to be replaced. I note Nissan Finances comment  that this fault had
happened too far on from the point the timing chain was replaced for them to be connected
faults. However, whilst  the two faults  may or may not have been connected to each other,
these issues dont  appear to be likely caused by natural and inevitable  wear and tear. Nor
have I been told about anything that leads me to think that they have been  caused by driving
style or accidental damage of some kind. All things considered, I dont think it reasonable to
expect a new car to require a new engine at less than two years old and having  been driven
around 20,000  miles.
Ive not commented on every  issue Miss B experienced with the car but as Ive explained, its
clear there were a number of faults  with the car. Having considered everything, I dont think
its reasonable to expect  a new car to be experiencing issues  such  as these  given in the time
it did, taking into account the mileage covered. Therefore, Im satisfied the car was not of
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B  in particular  that it wasnt reasonably
durable.
Putting things right
Ive already concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality   its clear there had been repair
attempts made by Nissan Finance and I still dont think the car had conformed to the
contract. Therefore, I think Miss B should  have been able to reject the car before the engine
Ref: DRN01612595was replaced.
Miss B has asked for a refund of all the monthly payments she made  towards the
agreement, but I dont  think it would be fair to tell Nissan Finance to do this. I say this
because I think its fair for Miss B to pay for the usage she had of the car for three years.  
And I think her monthly repayments are a fair reflection  of the usage.
However, Ive thought  about all of the inconvenience  Miss B experienced which  were:
Miss B had to take the car to the dealership several times  due to the issues she 
faced which would  have been  an inconvenience  to her.
There were  instances where Miss B wasnt able to drive the car because of the 
issues. Whilst Miss B may have been kept mobile with a courtesy car, ultimately that 
wasnt the car she was paying  for. And I dont think this was fair or reasonable.
Miss B had impaired  use of the car  there were several instances where Miss Bs 
use of the car was impacted because of the problems with the car. For example, the 
whirring noise when  accelerating.
Ultimately, Miss B paid for a new car and the experience of a new car, but I dont think this
was what she received  instead she experienced a number of issues  with the car for around
three years. I can see why some of the instances  Miss B described  as to how these faults
occurred and her experience with the car were of a concern and disappointment to her. I can
also imagine it would  have been  very frustrating and stressful  for the problems to keep
occurring as they did. Its clear Miss B had to make several trips to the dealership to have
the issues with the car inspected and also at some points, repaired, which would have been
an inconvenience to her.
Miss B also made a payment for a diagnostic test to be carried  out when she took her car to
an independent garage in December 2018. I think its fair for Nissan  Finance to refund the
cost of this test as, to my mind, this issue flows from the breach of contract.
Miss B says she wanted  to keep the car and as Ive explained, Im persuaded that she felt
like she had to hand it back  because of all the issues she experienced with it. Now that
Miss B has made that choice, she has to effectively start again  in terms of finding  a new car
thats suitable for her. So I think its fair she gets her deposit back. Miss B has told us the
deposit was made up of a £2,100 part exchange  amount and a £500 payment. I can see
there are two different deposit  amounts  on two invoices  provided by Nissan Finance  one
amount being  what Miss B has told us which  is on the later invoice of the two provided. Im
minded to tell Nissan Finance to refund Miss B the total deposit  amount of £2,600, unless
either party wish to provide me with different information on this before I finalise my decision.
Having considered everything  in the round, I think Nissan Finance should pay Miss B £500
for all of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Nissan Finance have confirmed that all end of contract damage charges  were waived as a
gesture of goodwill - this included the cost Miss B said she was being charged for damage to
the bonnet. So I wont be asking them to do anything  more in relation  to this part of Miss Bs
complaint.
Nissan Finance accepted  my provisional  decision,  but Miss B didnt. Miss B said:
Ref: DRN01612596She was experiencing issues with the car within the first 28 days  of acquiring  it. Miss 
B says there was a noise coming  from the car, there was an issue  with the car 
sensors as well as the audio  and navigation  system.  Miss B says she returned  the 
car in March 2016 and that work was carried out to fix these issues. So shes  said 
Nissan Finance should hold a job card for this repair.
The dealership  didnt change the tyre in August 2016 as mentioned in my provisional 
decision. But that the tyres were changed  in January 2019 after her car was towed 
away. However, the tyres that were  replaced  werent the same make  as the others  
on the car.
She doesnt think that waiving the end of contract charges is a gesture of goodwill. 
She shouldve  been  able to reject the car in October 2018. And because she wasnt 
able to, Miss B says she should  be able to seek a refund of the monthly payments 
from October 2018 to March 2019.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  its clear Miss B experienced a number of issues 
with the car and that she started to report some of the issues from February 2016. So whilst  I 
may not have the job card for the repairs carried out in March  2016, Im satisfied based on 
all the information  available  to me that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply. 
I note Miss B has said that the dealership didnt replace a tyre in August 2016 and that when 
they did in January 2019, the tyres  used werent  the same  make as the others on the car. I 
understand Miss Bs concerns but I dont  think this changes my decision. Im still of the 
opinion that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Miss B. Miss B also 
has concerns about the end of contract  charges being described as a gesture of goodwill, 
but as Ill go on to explain, overall  I think the compensation  Ive outlined is fair.
I appreciate Miss B has asked for a refund of the payments made  towards the finance from 
October 2018 to March  2019. However,  Miss B was still able to have use of her car during 
these months and Miss B has acknowledged  this was the case. So I dont think its fair to ask 
Nissan Finance to refund the payments for this period  as Miss B still had use of the car. Ive 
recognised that during this period, there were occasions where Miss B was given a courtesy  
car whilst her car was being repaired. And I explained in my provisional  decision that 
although Miss B was kept mobile  with the courtesy  car, this wasnt  the car she was paying  
for. I also explained that Miss B paid for a new car and the experience of a new car, but I 
dont think this was what she received.  And I think the compensation Ive asked  Nissan  
Finance to pay Miss B recognises this as well as the other inconveniences caused to Miss B 
for around  three years.  So I havent  found  any reason to change what I recommended in my 
provisional decision for Nissan Finance to do to put things right for Miss B.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint and I order RCI Financial  Services Limited t/a 
Nissan Finance to pay Miss B:
refund  Miss B the deposit of £2,600
reimburse the £80 diagnostic  test Miss B paid for in December  2018;
Ref: DRN01612597pay Miss B 8% simple  yearly interest on all refunds calculated from date of payment 
to date of settlement ; and
pay Miss B £500 compensation for all of the inconvenience and distress  this situation 
has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman
If RCI Financial Services Limited  t/a Nissan Finance think that theyre required by HM
Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest, they should tell Miss B how
much theyve taken off. They should  also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks
for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0161259