K820x#14complaint
Miss N says Provident Personal  Credit Limited trading as Satsuma lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss N had one loan with Satsuma  in April 2015.  She borrowed £1,000, repayable at 
£158.33 per month for 12 months.
Our adjudicators sent two different recommendations to Miss N and Satsuma  the most 
recent of which was that the complaint should not be upheld. Miss N didnt agree with the 
second adjudication, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Miss Ns case.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss N 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ns income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
Before approving her loan, Satsuma asked Miss N to provide information about her income  
and expenditure.  It also carried out credit checks and applied  various  buffers to Miss Ns 
declared expenditure to increase it in accordance with the credit check results and other  
factors. After taking  into account what Miss N had said and applying  its buffers, Satsuma 
calculated that Miss N had monthly  disposable  income of a little under £1,000.
I think the checks Satsuma carried out were  proportionate  and as those checks  suggested 
the repayments for the loan were  affordable I dont think Satsuma lent irresponsibly. 
Miss N says she had a lot of debt and had taken  out a number of other  loans before applying  
to Satsuma. But the information Satsuma  obtained   which  included  information provided by 
Miss N  suggested the loan was still affordable. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint against Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Ref: DRN01723102Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0172310