K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L, represented  by a broker, complained that Metro Bank PLC took too long to 
refuse their mortgage application.
They say that the delay  caused them a financial loss of £582.98, which they want  refunded.  
Theyd also like a payment for the distress caused  to them.
Background
On 27 December 2018, Mr and Mrs Ls broker submitted a mortgage application summary to 
Metro Bank.  Mr and Mrs L had a portfolio of buy to let properties,  and the application was to 
remortgage one of these.  The estimated value of that particular property was £330,000 and 
they wanted to borrow  £189,000 on an interest only basis over 12 years.  The estimated 
monthly rental income was stated to be £1,050.  The application said that the total 
outstanding mortgage balance on their 12 buy to let properties was £1,366,000 and the total 
monthly rent they received £109,838.
Metro Banks published  lending  criteria set out a number of requirements. One of these said 
that portfolio landlords - landlords with more  than 4 properties - must provide 140% cover  
of the portfolio interest amount, calculated at Metro Banks 5.5%  stress  rate. If applicants  
didnt meet this, Metro  Bank said that earned  income could be used to support buy to let 
applications where the rental income  is at least 100% of the mortgage interest, calculated at 
the same  5.5% stress rate. The criteria said that joint applicants had to have a minimum 
income of £75,000.  Metro  Bank required a budget planner to be submitted at the first stage 
we then use this to ensure the disposable income exceeds the rental shortfall  of the 
property or portfolio.
On 2 January  2019, Metro Bank issued an agreement in principle certificate. This said 
Please note our initial approval in principal has been made based on the information  
submitted and is subject  to verification. The letter asked for supporting documentation and 
the fully completed  application.
On 24 January, Metro  Bank rang the broker for an update, as it hadnt had the documents 
set out in its email.  Mr and Mrs Ls broker submitted the application  and sent supporting 
documents, including the tax self-assessment documents  for Mr and Mrs L which Metro 
Bank said it received  on 29 January.
Metro Banks underwriters then assessed the full application at the start of February.  But the 
underwriters said they couldnt  use some  of Mr and Mrs Ls rental income in the calculation, 
because it was for the property which theyd applied to re-mortgage, so it would have been 
double-counted. When  they took this into account, Mr and Mrs Ls income fell below  the 
£75,000 minimum. So Metro Bank  refused the application.
Mr and Mrs Ls broker complained to their Business Development Manager at Metro, who 
had been the contact  during the process.  The Business Development  Manager replied on 
6 February saying Ive tried with my manager and underwriters to see if we can get this 
through with no luck at all as they believe that were double counting the rental profit.  Firstly, 
apologies as I didnt know that we couldnt use rental income and apologies that it wasnt 
picked up when I first referred to underwriters.
Ref: DRN02981702Mr and Mrs L complained. They said that their existing mortgage had reverted to a more 
expensive variable rate on 1 January  2018, and they wanted Metro Bank to refund the extra 
interest theyd incurred as a result of the delay in Metro Bank turning down their application.
Metro Bank  didnt agree. Its final response said that the bank hadnt received the full 
application until 24 January and didnt  get the supporting documents until 29 January. So it 
hadnt been possible to review the whole application  before then. Metro Bank apologised 
that it wasnt apparent  at agreement in principle stage, but said it had informed the broker 
within 5 days of receiving  all the documents.
Metro Bank  also pointed out that it wouldnt be reasonable to refund any extra  interest 
Mr and Mrs L had incurred since 1 January,  when  it hadnt received  the full application  until 
29 January.
Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied and complained to this service.  They  said they werent 
complaining about the fact that the application had been declined,  but about the reason for 
the rejection. They  said that Metro Banks  representative had accepted the proof  of income 
theyd provided  in December 2017,  and it hadnt declined the mortgage until 6 February 
2018. They  pointed  out that Metro Banks published  criteria said that rental income  would be 
accepted. Mr and Mrs L said that if theyd been  given the right information  in December, 
theyd have been able to find another mortgage  elsewhere before their current mortgage 
went on to the higher  standard  variable interest rate. They  calculated  that theyd lost £582.98  
in additional interest,  and they also wanted  a payment for the distress caused.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. She agreed  that the published 
criteria said that rental  income would  be accepted.  But she said that this should have been 
read in conjunction with the other sections. This said that the budget  planner  would be used 
to ensure that applicants disposable  income would exceed the rental shortfall  of the 
property. When the rental  income was deducted  from Mr and Mrs Ls figures, the income  
figure was less than Metro Banks  minimum £75,000 for this type of mortgage.
Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied. They said that Metro Banks Business Development Manager 
had accepted their income on 22 December 2017. They said the published  criteria  were 
ambiguous and it wasnt clear that investment, savings and rental income  should  be used.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I explained that the purpose of the checks set out by Metro Bank was to make  sure that the 
mortgage would be self-funding, but with the safety net that if there were to be a problem  
with receiving rental income  at any point, the consumers income would temporarily  cover  it. 
This meant that rent could only be counted for one part of the assessment   so it had to be 
deducted from the safety net income.
This was evidenced on a document  called Mortgage Lending Criteria under the heading  
Buy to Let.  It clearly  said that it was earned  income that could be used to support the 
mortgage. This appeared to be a document that was available to brokers  for them  to use 
before application.  The fact that Mr and Mrs Ls broker had this document was supported  by 
the fact that he provided it with the first submissions to this service.
Ref: DRN02981703I considered other arguments put forward by Mr and Mrs L, and I didnt  agree  with all of 
them. For example, they claimed that as a result of Metro  Bank  delays, they should be 
compensated for going onto standard variable rate with their current lender on 1 January 
2018. But their broker didnt submit the full application until 29 January. So it would be quite 
unreasonable to refund  interest  for that period. In fact, it took Mr and Mrs Ls broker  from 
2 January to 29 January to submit  all the supporting documents. And I found that Metro 
Bank did make a decision quickly once it received the necessary tax information.
I also noted that Mr and Mrs L said that the Business Development  Managers email of 
12 December 2017 clearly states income  ok. But it didnt. It says The SIPPs are fine. 
This isnt the same  thing at all.
On the other hand, Mr and Mrs L had provided  an email  dated 6 February from Metro Banks 
Business Development  Manager, which apologised to the broker and said Apologies as I 
didnt know that we couldnt use rental income  and apologies  that it wasnt  picked up when 
I first referred to underwriters. I found that this email meant  that Metro Bank accepted that it 
was at fault for not rejecting the application earlier.
So whilst the information was available from the outset about the affordability test, I 
considered that there was fault with Metro Bank, failing to spot that rental income couldnt be 
used for both parts of the assessment.
Balancing these two responsibilities, I considered that a fair outcome would be for Metro 
Bank to pay Mr and Mrs L a small amount of compensation, namely £150, for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by the Business Development Managers failure to remind Mr 
and Mrs Ls broker about the position  about rental income.
responses to my provisional  decision
Metro Bank  said it had nothing to add.
The broker  representing  Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the provisional  decision. He sent a 
great number of documents including multiple  chains of emails, and documentary evidence  
of Mr and Mrs Ls assets. He also sent a detailed email setting out his arguments.  He said:
-The complaint  wasnt that Metro Bank took too long to make a decision.  It was that Metro 
Bank offer a broker  helpdesk, and if this helpdesk cant  answer  questions  it sends the 
case to an underwriter  to confirm whether the case fits the banks criteria or not. He said 
this was done on 22 December 2017;
-Mr and Mrs Ls representative  said the banks 22 December email didnt just say that 
SIPPS were fine, but also said that the bank wanted payslips and a P60 for Mrs Ls 
income;
-Mr and Mrs Ls representative  said that the portfolio  stress  rate and loan-to-value criteria 
were fine so I shouldnt have bothered to mention  these;
-He also said that Metro Bank had approved the income on 22 December and it made no 
difference what the bank claimed  later. From  then onwards,  the broker had collected the 
documents which Metro  needed. So delays from 22 December were due to Metro Bank 
and it had been the banks underwriter who had made a mistake;
Ref: DRN02981704-The representative said that if a lender wastes a clients time it should be found  
responsible;
-Mr and Mrs Ls representative  also said that Metro Banks employee had confirmed he 
and the underwriter had made a mistake. This mistake  had cost more than the £150 
which my provisional  decision recommended as compensation.
-The broker also said that he had a copy of the 2017 criteria  and it didnt  mention double  
counting. He argued that on 22 December Metro Bank had confirmed that all the income 
provided, not just the SIPPS, was accepted.  Metro Bank should have mentioned double 
counting then, not over a month later.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the additional information 
sent in by Mr and Mrs Ls representative. Hes raised multiple  points in his submissions to 
the service. Ive understood and looked  into all of those, but Ive commented on what I think 
is vital to my conclusions. 
what the complaint  is about
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint to Metro Bank is reflected in the banks final response letter  dated  
19 February 2018. This letter  said that Mr and Mrs L wanted two months  interest charges, 
because of a Metro Bank delay in the mortgage  application and subsequent decline 
decision. The bank  had issued a decision in principle, but had ultimately  refused  to lend. 
This service can only consider complaints which  have been referred by consumers to the 
relevant bank. I dont  agree that the complaint was about the broker  helpdesk  process,  or 
what Metro Banks December email said. For completeness, however, I have looked in detail  
at the email chains  which the broker representative has submitted for December 2017.
emails of 22 December  2017
Mr and Mrs Ls representative  argues that Metro Bank accepted Mr and Mrs Ls income in 
the email on 22 December. I dont agree that the email says this.
Looking at the emails  sent to me:
-On 20 December Mr and Mrs Ls broker emailed  I need to know if they agree joint 
income is over £75K even if they need better proof.  
-On 21 December Metro Bank  asked  more questions  about both Mr and Mrs Ls income, 
and more emails were exchanged about  this.
-There were  several emails on 22 December. In the first of these, Metro Banks adviser 
wrote Spoken  with underwriters, theyre OK to take the investment stuff but not the 
instant savings / case in the bank so it will fall short on whats  needed to fit. Apologies  
Im on annual leave  now until Jan if theres anything  you need drop me an email  and my 
out of office will have a contact on there for you.
Ref: DRN02981705-Mr and Mrs Ls broker replied to the sender and said that the figures totalled £76,649.20. 
He asked its not that their [sic] falling short is it something unwritten?
-The full text of the third 22 December email, which Mr and Mrs Ls representative says 
was agreement said: 
Apologies  theyve [sic] must have omitted  a document that was sent up. The SIPs 
[sic] are fine (if theyre  not drawing from them yet theyll  want letter/confirmation that 
they can withdraw). 3 payslips and P60 for employed income, 3 years SA302  for the 
partnership income.
I find that none of these  emails says that Metro Bank approved Mr and Mrs Ls income. In 
fact the first Metro Bank email on 22 December  specifically said it would fall short  on what  
was needed. The third email does not approve the income either.
key issues for this complaint
The key issues for this complaint are those set out in my provisional decision  in other  
words, whether Metro  Bank took too long to refuse  Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  application.  
Their broker submitted the full application on 29 January 2018, and I find that Metro  Bank  did 
make a decision quickly once it received the necessary tax information.  
The document called Mortgage Lending Criteria,  which  Mr and Mrs Ls representative sent 
to us with this complaint, clearly says that its earned income that could be used to support 
the mortgage. It doesnt use the phrase double counting, but thats irrelevant when it is 
very clear that only earned income  could be used. 
I do, however,  note that Metro Banks  Business Development Manager sent an email 
apology, which Ive quoted above. So, while  information was available  from the outset about 
the affordability test, I consider there was also fault by Metro Bank. Balancing the two 
responsibilities, I still find that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs L £150  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience for the banks Business Development Managers failure to 
remind Mr and Mrs Ls broker about the position about rental income.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0298170