K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  they were mis-sold  a decreasing  term assurance  policy  by a member 
of Sesame Limited alongside their mortgage.  They want all the premiums  refunded  plus 
interest and compensation. 
Mr and Mrs K are represented in this complaint  by a legal firm D.
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs K took a Legal  and General  (L&G)  decreasing term assurance policy 
through a broker  (F). F is a member of Sesame Limited so Sesame responded to their 
complaint. 
Sesame said at the time, the sale of such policies  wasnt regulated as it is now.  But as F had 
been a member of the Mortgage  Code  Compliance  Board (MCCB) it could look into whether 
the advisor who sold the policy had acted in accordance with section 3.2 of the Mortgage 
Code. Its response listed the Codes four requirements relating to the sale of insurance. Mr 
and Mrs Ks complaint  related to point 2 which required the advisor to explain if the policy  
was a requirement to obtain a mortgage (from lender S). Sesame didnt think F had 
breached point 2 of the Code so it didnt uphold the complaint.
D still thought  the policy  was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs K. So they complained to this service. 
Our investigator agreed we couldnt  look into whether  the policy was suitable as those rules 
didnt apply when  the policy was sold. But from the limited information  available, he couldnt 
say the policy was a requirement  to get the mortgage. So he didnt uphold the complaint. In 
response D pointed  out that point 3.1(a) of the Mortgage Code required advisors to 
recommend the product which best fits your needs  and this one didnt.   
As agreement couldnt be reached its come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having  done so, Im not going to uphold it. 
Let me explain why.
jurisdiction considerations
Before looking into the merits of a complaint Im obliged to clarify whether it falls within this 
services jurisdiction. While Sesame restricted  its response to whether the sale breached  a 
section of the Mortgage Code, that approach is not consistent with the Financial  Conduct  
Authority DISP rules Im bound to follow. 
As the sale took place more than six years  ago it might have been out of jurisdiction on time,  
so I requested Sesames  formal consent  to this service  looking in to the complaint. Sesame 
did consent, but only in relation to whether thered been a breach of the Code. However  a 
business cant limit the elements of a complaint we can consider. Only we can do that, with 
reference to the DISP  rules. 
Another jurisdiction  consideration is whether the complaint relates to a regulated activity. So 
I contacted both parties informally  to set out my thoughts on that. The sale of insurance  
products only became  regulated in January 2005, several years after June  2001  when Mr 
Ref: DRN08609642and Mrs K took their policy.  As our remit only covers  regulated  activities  we usually cant  
look into complaints  about  the sale of insurance products which took place  before  then.  But 
we can do so if the IFA which sold the policy was a member of the MCCB (as F was), but 
only in the following circumstances:
The term assurance policy is sold at the same  time as information is provided to help 
the consumer(s) choose a mortgage; and 
The complaint  is that the consumer was incorrectly told they had to have the policy to 
secure the lending.
We dont have any documentation relating to the mortgage itself, but it seems likely  the sale 
of the policy  took place  at the same  time as a mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint as set out in Ds letter of 3 July 2018 is that the policy  was an 
unsuitable product  for various reasons relating to their circumstances at the time. But it 
doesnt specifically  allege in that letter they were told the insurance was a condition  of the 
mortgage. However, Sesames final response  of 4 September 2018 lists various complaint 
points including  that the consumers were told they had to take the policy in order to get the 
mortgage. So as Sesame mentioned this point in their final response and it was given by D 
as a reason for disagreeing with the investigators  view, Im satisfied  the complaint does 
relate to them  believing they were  told life cover was a condition  of the mortgage. So I think 
Ive got enough to say the complaint falls within our jurisdiction  as it appears to satisfy  both 
points set out above.
Sesame accepted this reasoning, and neither Mr and Mrs K or D responded. So now the 
jurisdiction issue has been clarified I can go on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
was the policy mis-sold  to Mr and Mrs K?
Mr and Mrs K havent kept their mortgage documentation, and lender S no longer has copies  
of the mortgage  application or offer letter. But it advised Mr and Mrs K no longer have a 
mortgage with it. D hasnt said this is because Mr and Mrs K repaid their mortgage or simply 
re-mortgaged to another lender. The advisor  concerned doesnt recall  that specific sale,  
which I dont think is surprising given  its so long ago. But he confirmed he wouldnt have 
said the policy was a condition for obtaining the mortgage, or that it provided a lump  sum at 
the end. 
In the past, it wasnt uncommon for life protection to be a condition of a mortgage. This was 
a lenders commercial judgement to minimise their risk when deciding whether to lend. And 
even when its not a condition, mortgage  lenders may recommend borrowers have life 
protection in place. But that doesnt  mean  they had to choose one from L&G. Sesames 
response states the only insurance which lenders require as a condition of providing  a 
mortgage is buildings insurance. This is because buildings insurance protects the property  
against which the loan is secured. Without evidence, Ive no way of determining  if the policy 
was a condition  of obtaining  the mortgage.  If it had been a condition of securing the lending,  
I wouldnt be able to say Mr and Mrs K were incorrectly told it was. But if it wasnt a 
condition of the mortgage, and the only compulsory insurance was buildings,  theres nothing 
apart from Mr and Mrs Ks recollection, which  supports their position that they were misled.  
Id also comment that wed generally consider taking decreasing  term assurance  alongside a 
mortgage to be sensible. Even if the borrowers  have death  in service or critical illness 
benefits through their employer(s) theres  no guarantee these would remain  in place 
Ref: DRN08609643throughout the 25 year term of the mortgage. And while they may not have had dependents 
when they first took the mortgage, their circumstances  are likely to change  over the term. 
Cover designed  specifically to repay the outstanding mortgage if one party passes away  or 
is diagnosed with a life limiting condition provides peace of mind for the family, should the 
worst happen. 
Ive seen copies  of the policy application  form and policy summary statement. The form 
includes the addresses Mr and Mrs K lived at (separately) before their marriage.  It also 
includes the mortgaged  address, which is the same one Mr and Mrs K provided to this 
service, suggesting they still live there. The mortgage  term was originally 25 years, so was 
due to end in 2026. At the time of sale both had good jobs and D says the repayments  were 
so affordable they could easily have cleared the mortgage balance  in two years  if necessary. 
The mortgage (and policy benefit) was £108,000 in 2001. I would say thats  a large  sum to 
pay off within two years, even for two working  people. And it would  be very challenging for 
one bereaved person to manage, at what  would be a very difficult  time. The policy is still in 
place, and should one of the parties  pass  away  would now pay out almost  £70,000 to cover 
the expected mortgage  balance. Mr and Mrs K can cancel the policy if they feel its of no 
benefit to them. But they should  bear in mind  if they still have a mortgage and one of them  
passed away, the surviving party  would  be responsible for maintaining the mortgage  
payments. Whereas  the policy would clear the outstanding mortgage balance,  enabling the 
surviving party to keep any employer benefits to which theyre entitled.
Ive already explained why I cant consider whether  theres been a breach of the Mortgage 
Code. But for completeness Ill address  the point raised by D that the product  didnt  fit their 
needs. Part 3.1(a)  of the Mortgage Code reads advice and recommendation as to which 
mortgage is most suitable for you (my emphasis), so isnt relevant to the sale of insurance 
products, as D has suggested.  So even  if Id been able to consider that point, I dont think  it 
would be upheld.
So for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0860964