K822xcomplaint
This complaint has been brought by the estate of Mrs J. For the purposes of this decision, 
any reference to Mrs J includes that of her representative unless specified.
Mrs J is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) has refused  to offer her a refund after she was 
the victim of a scam. She says she was vulnerable at the time and TSB should  have done
more, before allowing her to make the payments to the scammer.
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021  to explain why I thought Mrs Js complaint 
should be partially upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone  wanted to give me. 
This is an extract from that provisional decision:
Mrs J says she met a man online.  She says she built a close relationship with him over 
a few months. The man told Mrs J he was a general in the army. Mrs J told us she was 
widowed a few years  before and has described to me that she was on medication  for 
depression at the time these conversations took place and she was trying to reduce  her 
dosage. Mrs J has provided me with some detail about the relationship  she thought she 
was in with this man and says she honestly thought they were  in a loving relationship.
Around February 2018, the man Mrs J was talking  to, started  to ask for money. He 
persuaded Mrs J to transfer  £10,700  to him so he could buy his way out of the army  
hed told Mrs J he was based in Syira and wanted to come  home.  He said he didnt 
want anyone to know that he was planning to leave the army and asked her to keep 
the payments  a secret. Mrs J continued to speak to the man online and in March 2018  
the man asked for a further payment.  Mrs J transferred a further amount of £13,573.84 
on 13 March 2018.
In the table below Ive set out a timeline  of the payments Mrs J made, the type of 
transaction that took place, the destination  accounts  where  the payments went to, and 
the amounts transferred. All the payments debited Mrs Js current  account  and were 
funded with transfers from her ISA. The result of this is that Mrs Js account  balance 
went from £24,185.32 in February 2018,  to 32p in May 2018.
Date Place/location Type of transaction Amount
Mrs J's local branch Money transferred  into Mrs J's ISA. 
Mrs J says this money was from her 
late husbands insurance policy.£24,185.32
19/02/2018 Mrs J's local branch Transfer from ISA to current account £10,700
19/02/2018Mrs J's local 
branchInternational transfer  from 
current account to third party
£10,700
13/03/2018 Mrs J's local branch Transfer from ISA to current account £13,485.00
Ref: DRN02431862There has been some confusion about  what happened at the time the transactions were 
made. And Mrs J has sometimes been  contradictory  in the testimony  she has provided  
to us and TSB. But Ive set out a timeline of events as I have been  able to establish them 
below:
Mrs J has said she initially approached  two other  banks about making the first payment 
but both banks refused to make the transfer.  One of the banks  told Mrs J there  was 
something about the transfer that didnt seem right and so it refused  to process it for 
her. It was at this point, Mrs J approached  TSB in February 2018.
TSB say Mrs Js ISA account was opened in the same month the first transfer  was 
requested, February  2018. I havent seen  any evidence  that suggests  that Mrs J did hold 
an account with TSB prior to February  2018 and so Ive proceeded on this basis.
Mrs J has said she didnt want branch staff to know she was transferring money to a 
man she had met online  she was embarrassed.  And so, she decided to make up a 
cover-story. When she went into branch to open  her account, she told the branch staff 
that she would be making a large  transfer to the cousin of her late husband in America. 
The purpose of this transaction was to fund some medical treatment  the cousin needed.
Then, on 19 February 2018,  Mrs J went into branch and transferred £10,700 from her 
ISA to her current account. She then transferred this amount to an international bank 
account. Mrs J cannot  remember exactly what questions she was asked in branch. 
Although she has told us she felt like some intrusive  questions were asked at the time. 
She wasnt happy that her financial matters were being discussed in view of other  
customers.
Mrs J continued to chat to the man online and she made a further transfer  amounting to 
£13,573.84 - to the same international  bank account on 13 March 2018.  Again, an amount 
was transferred from Mrs Js ISA into her current account to fund this transfer.
Between March  and October 2018  Mrs J continued to talk to the man online and he 
asked her for money  again.  This time it was to send to his son in Dubai. But Mrs J didnt 
have any money left to send. 
In October  2018, Mrs J went into branch to query the second transaction  which  she 
disputed making  herself. She spoke to the branch manager and mentioned  that she had 
transferred £10,700  to a general in the army. This raised suspicions with the branch 
manager who remembered Mrs J coming into branch to make the first transaction   and at 
the time shed said it was to pay for some  medical treatment for a family member.  The 
branch manager  explained to Mrs J that she may have been  scammed. However, Mrs J 
was adamant  this was not the case. She told the branch manager that the story about the 13/03/2018 Mrs J's local 
branchInternational transfer  from 
current account to third party£13,573.84
Total £24,273.84
Ref: DRN02431863general in the army was a lie and that she had actually transferred the money to the family 
member in America.
Mrs J also told us and TSB conflicting  things  about  the second transfer. When  she 
originally brought  her complaint to our service, she told us she didnt recognise this 
transfer at all, and this formed the basis of her original complaint to TSB. She told both 
us and TSB that she only noticed this transaction when she had cause  to print off her 
account statements  in January 2019. Mrs J said shed gone into branch to discuss  the 
transaction and branch staff had told her she had made the transaction  herself,  but they 
hadnt been able to produce a signature  to show that it was her. As TSB thought shed 
authorised the transaction herself,  it refused to refund the money  to her.
During a conversation with TSB on 23 January 2019, Mrs J admitted that she had made 
the transfer herself and she told TSB about  the scam. Mrs J said she had lied about  
what had happened  because she didnt want anyone to know  what shed done and she 
felt embarrassed. Mrs J has told us she now accepts  she has been the victim  of a scam 
although she did initially maintain that she did not recognise the second payment.
Mrs J said she believed that had TSB done more in branch, the transfers  would have 
been identified  as suspicious and refused  like they were  by other banks.
What TSB has said
TSB decided  not to refund Mrs J. It said she came  into branch and authorised both the 
transfers herself. And when she was questioned as to the reasons for the transfers,  she 
had deceived branch staff who had been  persuaded by her cover-story. Because of this, 
TSB didnt  think it should be held liable for the transactions.
TSB also said its branch  staff did question the purpose of the transfers  and the 
branch manager  authorised the initial payment  himself. A high value checklist  
(HVC) was also completed and a warning  about scams was read to Mrs J before 
both of the transactions were executed.
The complaint was bought to our service.  One of our investigators looked  into things 
and thought the complaint  should  be upheld. He felt that TSB could have done more  
in branch to prevent the transactions taking place. TSB disagreed and reiterated that 
it had fulfilled its obligations to Mrs J at the time.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
I am very sorry  to say that Mrs J passed  away during the course of my investigation.
Ref: DRN02431864My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am currently  
minded to conclude  that the fair and reasonable outcome  would be to partially uphold it, 
for the following reasons:
It is not now in dispute  Mrs J authorised the scam payments herself. She was duped 
by the scammer  into believing she was helping a man she was in a genuine 
relationship with. And so, I accept that these were authorised  payments  even  though 
Mrs J was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She went into branch on two separate 
occasions, provided her security credentials  and requested the payments be 
processed. So, although she did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs 
J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the time, I 
consider TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to 
counter various  risks, including anti-money  laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing  fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place  to look out for unusual transactions  or other 
signs that might  indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud  (among 
other things). This is particularly  so given the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional  steps, or make additional  checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some  cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility  of financial harm  from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the 
Banking Protocol where appropriate.
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, TSB should have been on the look-out 
for unusual  and out of character transactions. And Im satisfied that Mrs Js account 
activity during the scam was unusual  and out of character. Ill explain why.
Normally, in order for me to establish whether I could fairly say the two transactions 
were unusual and out of character for Mrs J, Id look at how she usually managed  her 
accounts and finances. However, I havent  been  able to do this in Mrs Js case. This is 
because both Mrs Js ISA and her TSB current account were  opened days  before the 
first transaction took place. And the account  had been open less than a month  when 
the second took place.  This means,  I havent been able to compare Mrs Js usual 
spending and transactions to the activity on the account during the scam. Having said 
the above, I am persuaded that it is more  likely  than not that the two transactions  
shouldve stood out as unusual to TSB branch staff  Mrs Js ISA and current  accounts 
were only recently opened,  the transactions were of high value (enough to warrant 
Ref: DRN02431865TSBs High Value Checklist  (HVC) to be completed on both occasions), and both 
transactions were  to international accounts,  and; the second transaction ultimately  
drained Mrs Js TSB ISA of all of its funds  leaving 32p available.
the first transaction
Ive reviewed TSBs internal notes from the time the first transaction  was completed 
alongside the HVC its said wouldve  been  completed at the time. Ive also taken into 
account both Mrs Js and the branch managers  testimony as to what conversations  
took place at the time.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its more  likely  than not that branch staff did have some 
concerns about  the transaction  both TSB and Mrs J agreed  that a manager was called 
and some questioning took place as to its purpose. The recollections provided by the 
branch manager  specifically  state Mrs J was questioned at length about the transaction  
she wished to make. And Mrs J has told us that her finances were  discussed in front of 
other customers in the branch. And so, based  on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded 
that branch staff did have concerns about Mrs Js request to transfer such a large  amount 
of money to an international account and they, rightly, questioned her about it.
However, at this point,  Mrs J told the branch  staff the purpose  of the transfer  was to pay 
for some medical care for a family  member  in America. Shed also mentioned to branch 
staff that she would be making  this payment when she went into open the account. And 
so Mrs Js reason for the payment did seem to fit with what branch staff had been  told 
previously.
Mrs J did later tell us that she said this because she was embarrassed, she didnt want  
TSB staff to know she was sending  money  to a man she had met online. I have 
significant sympathy for the position Mrs J found herself in, but ultimately, the 
explanation given for the transfer  made  it very difficult for TSB to uncover the real reason 
for it, and ultimately to step in and prevent the scam from taking place. On this occasion, 
Mrs J was able to persuade TSB the transaction  was genuine  and her explanation for it 
seemed plausible and convincing. And without a reasonable belief that Mrs J was falling 
victim to a scam, TSB had an obligation to process the payment at her request. And so I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that TSB should now refund this 
transaction to Mrs J.
the second transaction
When Mrs J went  into make the second  transaction, less than a month  after the first, 
again Im satisfied that TSB should have had some  concerns. Im satisfied the 
transaction was unusual  and out of character for Mrs J - it is of high value, higher than 
the first, and the transfer is being made  to an international bank account. But this time, 
the withdrawal is for the bulk of Mrs Js account  balance. The result  of this transaction  is 
that Mrs Js ISA goes from having a balance of just over £24,000  on 19 February 2018, 
to 32p by 13 March 2018.
Id also add that by this point, Mrs J was attempting to make a second international 
payment in a four-week  period  bringing  her total international transfers to almost 
£25,000 and leaving her with virtually zero in this account. And I think  this ought fairly 
and reasonably to have  prompted further consideration  by branch staff and ought  to 
Ref: DRN02431866have left them concerned. I think a pattern was developing here that something wasnt 
right  the second  payment had increased in value  and Id have expected TSB to ask 
Mrs J some questions  about the purpose  of the payment before allowing it to leave her 
account.
However, it doesnt appear that branch staff thought to question  Mrs J about  this 
transaction at all. The HVC indicates that branch staff didnt have concerns about this 
transaction despite it draining Mrs Js recently  opened account of funds  something it 
specifically prompts them to look out for. And the written  recollections from the branch  
staff at the time suggest  this payment  may have simply been  processed without question 
- because the first had been approved by a senior member of staff.
Unfortunately, this type of romance scam is all too common and should be something 
branch staff are encouraged to look out for, particularly  where  there are multiple 
payments of a high value that are being sent abroad, which is a common  feature of this 
type of scam. But I havent been  provided  with any contact notes completed at the time 
that indicate there was any discussion surrounding  this transaction at all.
In the circumstances, Im persuaded that this higher value, second payment in such  a 
short space of time should  have  put TSB on notice that Mrs J mightve been at risk of 
financial harm. And so TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have asked Mrs J questions  
about the purpose of this payment before completing it. Im satisfied that had TSB done 
so, the scam couldve been exposed. Ill explain  why.
I accept Mrs J provided the branch staff with a cover-story when attempting to make the 
first payment  and so its likely she wouldve done the same for the second. But the story 
Mrs J had provided for the first transaction - that she was paying  for medical  treatment for 
a family  member in America - made the second payment even more unusual.  Its not 
clear why Mrs J wouldve had to make a second,  higher, payment so soon after the first if 
the story  were true, especially given that this payment was essentially draining  her 
account of funds. And I think  it would have been  reasonable  for TSB to have questioned 
this. But it appears  that TSB accepted, virtually on face value, that the second transaction 
was for a legitimate purpose. Had TSB asked Mrs J some probing questions  about the 
second payment,  especially given the reasoning provided for the first, it seems unlikely 
that Mrs Js cover-story wouldve  stood up to scrutiny.
Due to the passage of time, Mrs J cant remember exactly  what  she intended to say 
about the medical treatment she was allegedly paying for but Im not persuaded she had 
thought about the story in any great  detail and I dont think Mrs J wouldve been able to 
answer any probing questions confidently. She knew  her story about the medical 
treatment wasnt true and shes  told us she doesnt have a relative in America.  So, Im 
not persuaded she would have been  able to provide plausible and persuasive answers 
that would  have left branch staff satisfied  that she wasnt at risk of financial  harm or 
being scammed. She hadnt thought  about  the story in any great detail at all.
Ultimately, I think  if additional questions had been asked Mrs J wouldnt have been 
able to provide  plausible answers that would have reassured branch staff that she 
wasnt at risk. I think the reason given for the payment is unusual and under further 
scrutiny would have  become clearly suspicious. And ultimately  the Banking Protocol 
recognises that:
Ref: DRN02431867customers are often convinced by the fraudsters story and so ultimately it may be 
necessary to escalate the matter to the Police  for customers to realise  or accept  that 
they are the victim of fraud.
And so even if Mrs J had maintained that she wished to continue with the payment, if 
TSB believed Mrs J was at risk of financial harm, it could have refused to release the 
payment and, if necessary, the police  couldve been called. Ultimately, Im satisfied that 
had proportionate and specific questions been asked, Mrs Js story would have fallen 
apart, and the second scam  payment prevented.
trouble and upset
Before Mrs J passed away,  she told us she has been left shaken  by the scam and her 
dealings with TSB. She had also been  unable to pay some of her priority debts which  led 
to the threat of losing  her home. Mrs J later became very unwell and spent a significant  
amount of time in hospital.  And so I think it appropriate to award Mrs J £500  in 
compensation for the stress caused  during this period. In reaching that conclusion  I am 
mindful that her loss was ultimately caused  by the callous  act of a fraudster  and the 
circumstances Mrs J found herself  in was largely outside of TSBs control.  But TSB could 
ultimately have prevented  the second payment  and reduced the stress and financial 
pressure Mrs J faced during this period.
summary of my provisional findings
I think the very nature of the payments Mrs J was making ought  to have alerted branch 
staff that something  wasnt right. As Ive set out earlier,  I think  the transactions Mrs J 
was asking to make were  unusual and out of character  enough  to mean  TSB ought to 
have taken additional steps  to satisfy themselves Mrs J wasnt  at risk of being 
scammed or at risk of financial  harm.  Overall, Im satisfied that had TSB taken the 
steps I think it ought fairly and reasonably to have taken, the scam wouldve been  
uncovered at the point the second  transaction was attempted, and Mrs J wouldnt have 
made this payment at all.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both TSB and Mrs Js estate responded to my provisional decision with additional points 
they wanted me to consider. Mrs Js estate said:
Mrs J was elderly  at the time the transactions were requested. She had recently lost 
her husband and had suffered with mental  health issues for over 40 years for which 
she had been  taking on-going medication.
As a result of the scam, Mrs J had faced the very real risk of losing her home  and in 
her final months she couldnt afford to pay her bills. The stress of the situation had 
left Mrs J unable  to eat and look after herself  properly and Mrs Js estate  felt that this 
played a part in her death.   
Ref: DRN02431868TSB reiterated that it should not be held liable for either of the transactions. It said:
It didnt agree that the transactions were  unusual and out of character.  It said it is 
common for its customers to transfer  money from their savings to fund large 
purchases/transfers out of their accounts.  Mrs Js behavior was normal in this 
context. 
A conversation about the second transaction had more  than likely taken place. TSBs 
process at the time was to complete  a High Value Checklist (HVC) for transactions 
amounting to more  than £10,000. TSB provided  me with a blank copy of the template 
HVC that was in use at the time - it no longer held a copy of the HVC that wouldve 
been completed with Mrs J in branch when the transaction was processed.  
TSB said the HVC  that wouldve been  completed at the time contained a number of 
fraud prompts that branch staff would have  used to help ascertain whether they felt 
anything was suspicious about the transaction or not. TSB felt it was more likely  than 
not that this form was completed at the time and although questions  were asked, no 
concerns about financial  harm were  found.  TSB said that had any concerns been  
raised, the transaction would have  been canceled,  not processed.  
TSB said even if it had asked Mrs J some further questions about  the second  
transaction, it was unlikely  that the real reason for it wouldve been exposed. Mrs Js 
cover-story was both plausible and persuasive and she had been  able to maintain 
this story when asked  some probing questions about the first transaction. TSB said 
that when Mrs J went into branch  six months later she was still adamant  that she had 
not been the victim of scam. 
Ive thought carefully about the additional  points raised by both TSB and Mrs Js estate but 
Ive reached the same  overall conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. Ill address 
each point in turn and Ill explain why.
I dont agree with TSB that neither  of the transactions shouldve stood out as unusual  and 
out of character. And based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the branch 
staff at the time thought  this either.  The branch manager was called to discuss the first 
transaction with Mrs J at length before it was processed. There  would have been  no reason 
for this conversation  to have taken place  if there  wasnt anything  about the transaction  that 
warranted further questioning.
Im also satisfied that the second transaction shouldve stood out as unusual. Mrs J was 
attempting to make  a second international payment  in a four-week  period.  This transaction 
was of a higher value than the first (high enough to warrant the HVC to be completed), and it 
took her total outlay  to just over £24,000   leaving her with just 32p in her account. The 
account in question had been open  for less than a month.  
When issuing my provisional findings,  I took into account TSBs submissions that it was 
more likely than not that the HVC  had been completed for the second transaction, and I 
agreed, but I didnt feel that the fraud prompts  contained in it had been  fully engaged with. 
Had the prompts been engaged with, this would have prompted additional questions to be 
asked about the transaction but there  is no record of this happening. 
For example, the HVC specifically prompts branch staff to look for recent unusual and out of 
character transactions  and to be mindful of newly opened accounts  - especially where  the 
newly opened account was being used to fund the transaction now in question. The 
transaction Mrs J was attempting to make was draining a recently  opened account just 
Ref: DRN02431869weeks after another high-value international payment that was deemed  unusual enough to 
warrant a conversation between the customer and the branch manager. But the transaction  
was processed and there is no record of further  questions being asked. TSB has been 
unable to provide  me with any notes from the time setting  out what  conversations were  had 
with Mrs J. Mrs J has said she doesnt  remember being asked any additional  questions  
about the second transaction.  And the testimony from the TSB branch manager is that the 
transaction may have simply been processed on the basis  that he had already discussed the 
first. 
And so, based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that the second  transaction  shouldve  
stood out as unusual for Mrs J. It appeared all the more unusual  given the reasoning 
provided for the first. I agree with TSB that given  the value of the payment, its more likely  
than not that its HVC was completed but I have  no evidence  that satisfies  me that this 
prompted further questioning of Mrs J, as it required and which Im satisfied shouldve taken 
place. And so Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that TSB couldve done more  
here.
I also dont agree with TSB that even if further  questioning had taken place, it wouldnt have 
made a difference. The second  higher value payment,  in such a short  time frame,  made  the 
reasoning provided  for the first even more suspicious. And this time, Mrs J was using all of 
her savings. And Im not persuaded that Mrs J would have been able to confidently  answer 
any questions as to what this second transfer  was to be used for had she been  asked.  
Mrs J hadnt thought about her cover-story in any great detail beyond what she had already 
told TSB about the first transaction. And Im not satisfied this story  wouldve stood up to 
further scrutiny if she had been  asked why a second  transfer  was now needed so soon after 
the first. As TSB point  out, Mrs J couldnt  remember what  she had told branch staff at all 
when they spoke to her six months later. 
Cover-stories, such as the one Mrs J provided, are a common  feature of Authorised Push 
Payment scams and TSB wouldve been  aware of this at the time and it shouldve been  
something its staff were on the look-out for. It should  also have been aware that often, they 
can only be uncovered  if specific  and probing questions are asked.
I take on board what TSB has said about  Mrs J being adamant  that she was not falling victim 
to a scam  when spoken to six months later. But it is common-place that victims of scams  are 
wholly convinced by the story presented  by the fraudster. Whether the spell wouldve been 
broken for Mrs J or not, ultimately, TSB could have refused to process the transaction  if it 
had a reasonable belief  that Mrs J was at risk of financial harm.  And Im satisfied that had 
further questions  been asked, Mrs J wouldnt have been able to persuade TSB that this 
transfer was for a legitimate purpose.  
Finally, I would like to say how really very sorry I am to hear about  the circumstances Mrs J 
found herself in and to hear that she has now passed away.  This is a particularly cruel scam 
and one that relies  on the good  nature of its victims.  But I dont think  it would  be fair and 
reasonable of me to conclude that TSB should  be liable for the first transaction or for any 
further compensation over and above the £500 I previously recommended.
Ref: DRN024318610My final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint against TSB Bank plc and direct it to:
refund  to Mrs Js estate the total value of the second scam payment (£13,573.84).
pay interest on this amount at the ISA interest  rate, from the date the transaction 
was made to the date of settlement.*
pay Mrs Js estate, on behalf of Mrs J, £500 for the trouble and upset she 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Js estate, on 
behalf of Mrs J, to accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
*TSB may be required by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs  to deduct tax from the interest. If it does, and if 
Mrs Js estate requests it, TSB should provide it with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, so 
it may reclaim it if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0243186