K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay his claim for loss of rent and 
damages under his commercial property owners  policy.
background
Mr A let out a shop.  In April 2015 he regained possession of the premises from an illegal  
sub-tenant. The property  had major  dilapidations.  Mr A first made a claim for loss of rent and 
business rates under  his legal expenses policy but then in 2018 he was referred to AXA to 
make a claim. He showed AXA a schedule of dilapidations drawn up after the eviction. He 
had carried out the repairs but asserted that he had made a considerable loss of rent as he 
was unable to re-let the premises for three years.
AXA reviewed the schedule of dilapidations. It pointed out that the loss of rent cover was 
contingent upon the damage being  due to an insured cause. It said none  of the damage 
could be shown to be malicious. The schedule referred to areas being of grime,  shabby, 
dirty, beyond  repair, incorrect installation and deterioration. It said this type of damage had 
either occurred over a period of time or because the property was not maintained by the 
tenant, all of which is excluded under  the policy. It pointed out also that, in 2016, it had dealt 
with a claim for escape of water and loss of rent was added  as part of that claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  found  that although some of the items in the report 
could be said to be covered under the policy, Mr As claim was for loss of rent. He didnt 
think that any such loss was payable as Mr A had evicted the tenant meaning  no rent was 
payable at the time of the claim. 
Mr A disagreed and said that he believed the policy  was there to cover  the sort of damage 
he found after repossessing the property. He also said that if AXA was liable for some of the 
damage that was part of his loss.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that AXA should  settle  the claim for 
damage to Mr As property in so far as it came within  the policy terms. I didnt think it was 
liable for loss of rent or business rates.
AXA and Mr A didnt  accept my decision. Ive set out my provisional  findings, their comments  
and my responses below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
damage
I dont think its fair to say that as Mr A had only made a claim for loss of rent, he should be 
held to this and not be able to make a claim for insured damage. AXA has clearly  considered  
evidence of such loss. As the repairs had been  completed long before a claim was made, I 
think its fair just to refer to the schedule of dilapidations  for the damaged  items, as this was 
drawn up shortly after Mr A regained possession.
Ref: DRN04003692Under the policy there is cover under various perils including (damage by) malicious  
persons. I dont think from looking at the schedule, any damage can be shown to have been 
caused maliciously. But there is cover for:
Any other  cause which is not excluded
So, as long as the damage (which is defined as loss,  destruction  or damage) isnt excluded 
under the policy  it is covered. I think that applies to the following:
Toilet   door drilled holes - replace  cost £200 
Preparation Room - Shelving damaged - cost £50
Shop  - Missing sections of grid in suspended  ceiling, some  damage, and generally in 
mediocre condition.  The missing  section and damage should be covered. The cost for 
replacing the whole ceiling £2,650, it would be fair to pay half - £1,325.
Shop  - Counter  missing and replaced with an inferior one - cost £1,000
Front elevation - Canopy  missing - cost £500
I think AXA should pay the cost of the repair/replacement of the items set out above  totalling 
£3,075. It should pay simple  interest  on this at the rate of 8% per year though only from 
21 August 2018,  that being the date of Mr As claim,  until it is paid. 
As for the rest of the schedule  this refers to grime, items being  shabby, mediocre, incorrectly  
fitted, with weed growth etc. These  items  are all in my view related to the maintenance of the 
property or things that happened gradually. Wear  and tear and any other gradually operating 
causes of damage and the cost of maintenance or routine decoration are excluded. 
loss of rent
I dont accept that loss of rent isnt payable just because Mr A had to evict the sub-tenant. 
The policy says, the Insurer will indemnify the insured in respect  of Reduction in Rent 
Receivablefollowing damage  caused by an Insured Contingency to property insured.
If the tenant has caused insured damage and as a result the property is unable to be let for a 
period, there is a loss of rent.
But in this case the damage covered by the policy is a very small proportion of the overall  
damage to the property.  I dont think the items Ive said are covered led to a loss of rent. Ive 
noted also that there were other factors  in Mr A not being able to let the property such as the 
market being quiet and a claim for escape of water in 2016.
So I dont  think loss of rent is payable. The same applies to any loss of business rates.
The following  are AXAs comments (bulleted) and my responses:
The insured  had never intimated  a claim for the property damage  and at the time the 
claim was registered,  the legal  expenses claim in respect of dilapidations was still 
ongoing. It does  not know the outcome of this and whether  the insured has been 
successful and has not repudiated the property damage per se. It feels it would be unfair 
to penalise AXA in relation to interest for a claim that has never  been  presented  and 
validated.
Ref: DRN04003693While Mr A didnt  make  a claim for property damage until August 2018,  I have set out why in 
my provisional findings. AXA rejected the claim for loss of rent (and by implication the claim 
for damage  to the building).  Mr A presented photos,  the said report  and the invoices for 
repair. So it cant say the claim  hasnt been presented.  Rather it chose not to validate it as it 
rejected the whole claim. The award of interest isnt a penalty but flows from the insurance 
contract. I have taken  it that Mr A was unsuccessful in pursuing  the former  tenant  which  was 
the reason for him making the claim to AXA.
Whilst I have referred to any other damage not excluded, the items listed  are clearly 
dilapidations which the insurer  is not responsible for  the tenant  is and the insured 
has/is pursuing a claim against  them.
I have set out in my provisional findings  those items which I believe are damage which  
should be covered  under  the policy. Whilst part of the dilapidations report it doesnt  mean  
that the items of damage which arent in my view excluded under the policy shouldnt be 
covered.
The items have  not all needed  replacing  or become damaged  at the same  time and the 
late notification has prejudiced its ability to individually validate  them.  There would also 
be a separate  excess applicable to each item of damage. It would be happy  to review the 
damage should clams be submitted  for damage  over and above the excess  amount of 
£300, that has been caused by an insured event.
Since AXA rejected  all the damage  so made no attempt to validate  it I think its rather  late in 
the day to say it would now be happy to review the damage, or to raise the question of 
separate excesses.  Our approach is that where  theres extensive  damage to a property and 
no clear evidence to indicate when the damage occurred, its reasonable to treat this as one 
claim and apply one excess.
Having looked  at the invoice for the repairs the company  is clearly  related to the insured 
and appears to have  increased the dilapidations by 20% being  a VAT amount but the 
company does not display a VAT registration  number.
This is irrelevant in my view. I have based the costs on those set out in the dilapidations 
report, drawn up by an independent chartered surveyor, rather  than any invoices Mr A has 
produced. That report says: All the works set out in the schedule  are reasonably required to 
put the Premises  into the physical state  required by the terms of the lease. Where quoted 
the costs are reasonable.
These are Mr As comments  (bulleted) and my responses:
The content of the dilapidations report is the extent of all the damage done  maliciously  
by the illegal sub tenant, and the cost should be paid according to that report.
The dilapidations report wasnt drawn  up for the insurance claim. Rather it was a list of all 
the items  that needed repair before the property  could  be re-let. Some of the items, as Ive 
found in my provisional findings are covered by the policy, but a number of them Ive 
determined arent, as they are excluded.
When the repair started and the ceiling was removed for the repair, he found above  the 
suspended ceiling the extractor duct had overheated or an escape of smoke  and heat 
Ref: DRN04003694had damaged the ceiling between the shop  and the flat above. He had to fit a new fire 
rated ceiling under the flat above before he could fit the new suspended shop ceiling.
The sub tenant  covered the entire  floor with a commercial vinyl floor stuck over the floor 
tiles using a commercial glue. He had to remove the entire  vinyl and the glue and the 
entire existing floor tiles had to be polished and broken  tiles repaired as well as 
re-grouted. He has produced a number  of before  and after  photos.
He believes he is entitled to two years payments of business rates and loss of rent.
Mr As main problem in this case is that he didnt report the damage to the property until over 
three years after it had occurred. Im satisfied that, due to the dilapidations report,  delay 
shouldnt prevent Mr A from claiming for the damage within that report which  reasonably 
appears to be covered  by the policy. But I bear in mind that as AXA wasnt  made aware  at 
this time it didnt have  the opportunity to assess and review more damage as it arose   that 
would be the usual course for a claim and repairs. So Im not going to award anything  
beyond that covered by the policy as reflected  in the dilapidations report. I dont think its fair 
to make AXA settle for further damage as it wasnt given chance to assess  that as it normally 
would have done. Whilst Ive seen Mr As photos  they dont add anything to my findings.
Im not persuaded that there is any rent or rates  due under ther terms of the policy,  for the 
reasons set out in my provisional findings.
My role is to try to informally resolve the dispute between the parties and Ive done that 
taking into account  all the evidence and the difficulties in this case. I appreciate that this may 
not be what Mr A wanted, but hes free to reject my decision and take other  action.  
My provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay to Mr A £3,075 in 
settlement of his claim. It should add simple interest* at 8% per year from 21 August 2018  
until it repays this.
*AXA Insurance UK Plc is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr A request it, AXA Insurance Plc should provide him with a certificate 
showing how much  tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0400369