K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the whole-of-life  policy he took out via Santander  UK Plc. He says he 
was not told that the sum assured was £3,443,  but thought if he paid into it until age 90, the 
payment would be over £7,000. He also wasnt told he could end up paying more  into the 
plan than would be paid out.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel his complaint  should  be upheld.
She said that the plans  summary stated  the benefit  was £3,443, and this was the amount 
that would  be paid out on death, adding: The premiums will stop when you reach  age 90 but 
the cover  will continue. It also referred  to the amount of premiums that one could end up 
paying: The total premium payable (assuming premiums continued to be paid until 90th 
birthday for this plan is £7,245).
This therefore confirmed  that one could pay in more than the benefit would pay out. Overall, 
she said she had not seen evidence to show that Mr B was informed that the sum assured 
would increase after 90. Instead, the documentation  showed that it was a guaranteed  life 
plan, with a fixed  premium and fixed sum payable.
Mr B reiterated that this was not explained at the time, and he was led to believe the 
payment would be at least £7,000 if he continued  paying premiums till he was 90.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
In order to uphold  a complaint I need  to conclude that there is sufficient  evidence  to safely  
say that a business did something wrong. So I while  I dont dispute Mr Bs recollections of 
what was discussed,  or not discussed,  I cannot  fairly  conclude that the advisor  definitely  
misled him in the absence of more evidence.
As the adjudicator pointed out, the paperwork does explain that the pay out would only ever 
be £3,443 and it seems  unlikely  that the advisor  would have said it could rise to £7,000. 
There may well have  been a genuine misunderstanding at the time, but that isnt proof  that 
the advisor deliberately misled Mr B.
Ref: DRN04224822my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0422482