K820x#14Complaint
Miss N complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed her account. Shes also unhappy 
that Santander wont return money paid into the account to her.
Background
Miss N had a basic bank account  with Santander.
In April 2019, a faster payment of £5,600  was made  into Miss Ns account from another  
account she held with a different bank. Santander took the view that it needed to look into 
the payment and how Miss N was operating her account. The bank blocked Miss Ns 
account whilst it did that. 
Santander asked  Miss N to provide more about  the payment.  Miss N told the bank that the 
£5,600 was money shed saved to use for buying a car, holidays and living expenses.  She 
said she had agreed to lend her partner some money to pay bills, which  is why shed  
transferred the money into her Santander account.  She explained that the money had gone 
through a number of her other bank accounts before  reaching  her Santander account 
because she hadnt set up her partners account  details correctly.  So, shed moved the 
money into her Santander account  to make the transfer easier  as this account had her 
partners details saved.
Santander wasnt satisfied with Miss Ns explanation and asked her to provide evidence  that 
she was entitled  to the £5,600. Miss N told Santander that the money was from a family 
friend, who I will refer to as Mr B, whod paid cash deposits into another  of her bank 
accounts. And was then repaid by her father who lives overseas. Miss N provided Mr Bs 
bank account  statements  along with her fathers. She also provided  a statement from Mr B 
confirming hed made deposits into her account. 
Santander reviewed  all the information Miss N provided. But werent satisfied it showed 
Miss N was entitled to the money.  Santander also decided it no longer  wanted Miss N as a 
customer and closed  her account. However,  it acknowledged that it could have  provided  
Miss N with better service,  in particular it said it given Miss N conflicting information about  
timescales, access to her remaining balance, and had asked her to provide documents  shed 
already provided.  Santander apologised and offered to pay Miss N £150 as a gesture of 
goodwill, but Miss N didnt think that was enough.
Miss N wasnt  happy with this response. She says she has had to borrow money  from 
friends which was stressful and embarrassing.  And her mental health has suffered. So, she 
wants Santander to pay compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been  caused. And to 
give her back  the £5,600,  which she says belongs to her. So, she brought her complaint to 
our service  where one of our investigators looked  into it.
The investigator didnt  think Santander had done anything  wrong  and had treated Miss N 
fairly when  it blocked and closed her account.  He also thought  Santander had done enough 
to put things right regarding the service it had provided. Miss N disagreed.  She says 
Santander has treated  her unfairly  and shes out of pocket. She wants the bank to give her 
back the £5,600, which  she says belongs  to her. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
Ref: DRN08466862My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see Miss N feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from whats  
shes said to us and to Santander. But whilst I appreciate Miss Ns frustration, its important 
to point out that the only thing in question here is whether  Santander has done what it 
should have done. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, all banks  in the UK are strictly  regulated and must take certain action in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory  obligations. Banks  are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing  business relationship. That sometimes  means  banks need  to 
restrict customers accounts and ask for information  about payments. Santander has said 
that Miss Ns access to her accounts was blocked  and reviewed  to meet  these requirements. 
And having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable for Santander to 
act in the way that it did. So, whilst  I accept  this caused Miss N inconvenience, I cant say 
Santander treated  her unfairly when it blocked her accounts. 
Miss N has said that the £5,600 paid into her account was money shed saved. More 
recently, shes said that the money was paid into her account over a number of months on 
behalf of her father,  from his friend., Mr B. Shes  explained that she intended to lend the 
money to her partner  so that he could pay some  bills. And that the money went through  a 
number of her accounts because  she only had her partners account  details stored  in her 
Santander account. Miss N says shes provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate  shes 
entitled to the money and that it came from her father who helps  support  her. 
Ive looked carefully  at the paperwork Miss N has provided. And Ive borne in mind what  
shes said about the payment into her account. But Ive also balanced  this alongside all the 
other information and evidence  available  to me. And having done so, Im satisfied that 
Santanders concerns  about the funds  and refusal  to release the money  isnt unreasonable. 
Im also satisfied that the information Miss N has provided so far isnt sufficient for it to 
conclude that releasing the £5,900  wouldnt risk breaching its legal and regulatory 
obligations. I say this because the evidence so far supplied by Miss N doesnt include  where  
the funds originated from and a clear trail from the external accounts to Miss Ns account.
It maybe that Miss N can now provide more  information about the funds paid into her 
account. But, in the circumstances I can understand why Santander  wanted  to know  more 
about the payment. I can understand too why it didnt  consider Miss N had adequately 
explained their source.  So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong when it decided 
not to release the money paid into Miss Ns account to her.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Ns account. Its generally  for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking  facilities to any 
particular customer.  Unless theres a very good  reason to do so, this service  wont  usually 
say that a bank  must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer  who has had 
their account  closed.
Miss N had a basic account with Santander. The circumstances in which  an account 
provider can close a basic account, are more limited. Theyre  set out in section 26 of the 
Payment Account Regulations 2015. So, Ive also considered these, along with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
Ref: DRN08466863Having looked  at all the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im satisfied that 
Santander has acted  in accordance with the terms of the account.  And in line with the 
regulations when it decided to close Miss Ns account. Miss N has said that Santander didnt 
tell her it was closing her account. But Ive seen a copy of a letter dated 24 May 2019,  which  
was addressed to Miss N from Santander, which told her it intended to close  her account  
within 30 days of the date of the letter. Ive not seen  any evidence that Miss N had any 
trouble with her post. So, I think its likely she did receive the letter. And I cant say the bank 
did anything wrong  when it closed Miss Ns account.  
The investigator noted that the bank had acknowledged it should have provided Miss N with 
better service and it offered Miss N £150 in recognition of that. The investigator agreed that 
Santander could  have explained  things more clearly but thought  that the offer of £150 was 
fair in the circumstances. I share  that assessment and dont  therefore  think it necessary for 
me to award any more.  
In summary,  I appreciate  that it was inconvenient  for Miss N when Santander blocked and 
closed her account. And didnt release funds. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my 
decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since  I 
dont believe  Santander acted inappropriately and treated Miss N unfairly in taking the 
actions it did. Other than that, I simply leave it to Miss N to decide whether or not to accept  
Santanders offer of £150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0846686