K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy at how Kindertons Ltd dealt with his claim for accident damage to his car.
background
Mr W was involved  in a non-fault road traffic accident in March  2019, where he was the front 
car in a three-car  shunt. This caused damage to the rear of his car. Kindertons were 
instructed to manage  the accident  claim for him. Kindertons told him that his car had been  
declared a total loss. Mr W chose to take back his car and exchanged it for a motorbike.
But Kindertons had given  the wrong information  to the third-party  insurer (TPI)  and the 
engineer who inspected Mr Ws car. Kindertons said Mr W was the middle car in the shunt, 
and there  was damage to both the front and rear of his car. There was damage to the front 
of Mr Ws car, but Mr W says this was caused when Kindertons recovered  his car. Whether 
this was the case, or whether this was existing damage,  has not been established  as Mr W 
no longer owns  the car, the damage to the front cant now be investigated.
Because of this error,  Mr Ws car was no longer  classed as a total loss. The TPI paid him 
£640 as a cash-in-lieu payment instead  of the £2,877.60 he was expecting.
Mr W has complained hes lost out financially because of Kindertons mistake. He says he 
exchanged his damaged  car for a motorbike because he was told it was uneconomical to 
repair. But the TPI have  now paid the value  of the repairs  to the rear of the car, and Mr W 
now cant look at pursuing Kindertons for cost of the damage to the front of the car, which he 
says was caused during recovery.
Our investigator found Kindertons gave incorrect information about the accident, which led to 
Mr Ws car being  incorrectly written off when it shouldve been repaired.  Because  Mr W had 
already exchanged his car when  the error was discovered, hed lost out financially as a 
result. So he thought  Kindertons should pay Mr W £1,455 to compensate  him for his 
financial loss, and a further £75 to compensate  him for the trouble and upset this caused.
Kindertons didnt agree  with the investigator. They say they havent investigated Mr Ws 
complaint because they werent given the opportunity to do so. Theyve said the fact that 
the customer has said he broke down the vehicle for parts suggests he has had value from 
the vehicle, however this directly contradicts the MOT being completed on the vehicle.  Also 
the customer later comments that he had scrapped  the vehicle contradicts swapping  this for 
an item of lower value.  Because of this Kindertons  they dont think  they should be held 
liable if Mr W willingly offered to swap his vehicle for something with less value.
Kindertons also commented that "the valuation is subject to the Third Parties Insurers 
agreement, any relevant  checks  made  on your vehicle and a liability  admission obtained, so 
is therefore subject  to change." They feel this point  wasnt addressed  in the investigation.
After Kindertons made their comments,  Mr W provided further evidence to show  he didnt  
scrap the car. But Kindertons say this evidence doesnt show  Mr W exchanged  his car, and 
could also show hed scrapped the car as he advised us he had. 
Ref: DRN05822102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
complaint about cash-in-lieu  payment
Kindertons say this [complaint] does not relate  to a complaint we have  investigated [it] 
related to underpayment  and misadvising. We investigated a complaint  surrounding  the 
cause of the accidental frontal damage  only.
Ive seen Kindertons  case notes. On 25 April these say adv[ised] there is nothing  more we 
can do and tpi wont be paying out on a [total loss] client wanted to know  who was at fault for 
deeming his car a [total loss] client adv[ised] he wants the full amount adv[ised]  this wont be 
happening. On 26 April the notes also say client called in not at all happy  client  is 
refusing [cash-in-lieu]  as they were told the vehicle  was a [total loss] which  is wanting that 
payment  cleint [sic] wants a manager  call back to get this resolved.
Based on these case notes, Im satisfied that Mr W raised the issues  Im now considering  
with Kindertons, and they had the opportunity to deal with them. Their case note for 25 April 
also says called client  adv[ised] he will need to go to the ombudsman regarding  his 
complaint, and there is nothing to suggest  that a manager called Mr W back to discuss this 
issue. So its reasonable for me to say Kindertons chose not to deal with this complaint.
accident damage
Ive listened to the call in which Mr W explained the circumstances  of the accident  he says 
a car hit the car behind  him, which was then pushed into his car. He explained all the 
damage was to the rear of his car, and he said he wasnt happy driving his car after the 
accident. Theres no mention of Mr W hitting the car in front of him, or of any damage  to the 
front of his car. Ive also seen Kindertons case notes record the damage  to Mr Ws car as 
being all to the rear and dont mention  any damage  to the front of the car. 
The Statement of Truth Mr W completed,  to say what happened  in the accident, also says he 
was hit from behind  and makes no mention of him hitting the car in front.  And he indicated  
that the damage was all done to the rear of his car - he doesnt declare  any damage to the 
front of the car. Kindertons case  notes show they received and reviewed this on 13 March 
2019. Ive also seen that Kindertons received  a witness statement from the driver of the car 
behind Mr W when the accident happened. This also confirms the impact was at the rear of 
Mr Ws car and makes  no mention  of Mr Ws car hitting the vehicle in front of him.
But the claim notification  Kindertons sent to the TPI says Mr W was hit from behind,  and this 
pushed his car into the car in front. The same  circumstances of the accident were  given to 
the engineer.  Based  on what Ive seen  and heard, I agree that Kindertons  gave the TPI and 
engineers the incorrect details  of the accident.
Ive also seen the TPI disputed liability for the accident. Kindertons case  notes  show  this 
was because if it only rear damage  that were claiming for then they will be at fault however 
due to their [sic] being front damage  they are investigating further.  When Kindertons raised 
this with Mr W, he again told them the only damage  caused by the accident was to the rear 
of his car  he blamed the recovery agent  for the damage to the front of the car. Because of 
this, Kindertons asked  the engineer to reissue their report based on the rear damage only.
Ref: DRN05822103Ive seen a copy  of the engineers report of 21 March  2019. This says Mr Ws car is a total 
loss because of the front and rear accident damage to the car, and because  the repair costs 
exceed the value of the car. Ive also seen an amended report, which  says front damage 
removed from costs  as not related.  This report substantially reduced  the repair costs, which 
meant that Mr Ws car was now repairable,  not a total loss. 
damage to front of car
Mr W says the damage to the front of his car happened during  recovery and was caused  by 
Kindertons recovery agent. The collection  sheet  from the recovery agent shows damage to 
front of Mr Ws car, but this doesnt  have Mr Ws signature. Instead  it says he was not 
present when the car was collected.  The second engineers report  says front damage 
considered post incident damage.
Mr W only declared damage to the rear of his car caused by the accident, which matched 
the details provided  by the witness, and he had safety concerns  about driving the car. 
Kindertons provided  a hire car, so its likely Mr W didnt drive  his car after the accident.  But 
damage was done to the front of his car which the engineer said was most likely  to have 
been caused after the accident. I havent  seen  anything  to show me how this happened. 
Because Mr W no longer  owns the car, I agree  that the cause of this damage has no bearing 
on the outcome  of the complaint. So, I wont consider how this damage was caused.
payment by the TPI
Kindertons told Mr W his car was a total loss and had been  valued at £3,270. They  said he 
would receive £2,877.60  from the TPI and £392.40 salvage value from Kindertons. Mr W 
asked if he could buy the car back and said that he would probably strip the car for parts. 
Kindertons said he wouldnt get the £392.40  and would  still be responsible for disposing of 
the chassis if he did this, to which Mr W agreed.
In a follow up letter, Kindertons confirmed what theyd told Mr W. They  also said as per the 
guidelines that we must  adhere  to, the report has been forwarded to the Third Party  Insurers  
to request an interim payment. The valuation is subject to the Third Parties  Insurers 
agreement, any relevant  checks  made  on your vehicle and a liability  admission obtained, so 
is therefore subject  to change.
Mr W says that, as a result of what hed been  told by Kindertons, he exchanged  his car for a 
motorbike. Hes provided a hand-written note confirming he exchanged  his car on a sold as 
seen / Cat D basis. Given the type of transaction his was, this is the sort of receipt  Id 
expect to see, so I dont  think  this is unusual. Mr Ws also provided  a letter  from the DVLA  
which confirms that he disposed of the car on 31 March 2019.
But, because of the error made by Kindertons, the TPI didnt pay the £2,877.60 Mr W was 
expecting  they paid £640  cash-in-lieu of the repairs to the rear of the car instead. I accept 
Kindertons point that the valuation was subject to the TPIs agreement,  but the TPI didnt 
dispute the valuation. Instead  the TPI paid out for the repairs to the rear of the car once 
Kindertons had given  them the correct information. So this isnt an issue of the TPI disputing 
the valuation,  its an issue of the TPI and engineer  acting  on incorrect  information given to 
them by Kindertons.
Ref: DRN05822104Kindertons dont think Mr W exchanged his car, they believe  he stripped it for parts. Because 
of this, they feel hes gained value from the car. They also say that Mr W told them  on 24 
April 2019 that hed scrapped  the car. But they havent provided a copy of this call. And in 
the call I do have, Mr W only says hed probably  strip the car for parts.  Regardless  of what 
Mr W may have said, he was entitled to change his mind about  how he disposed of the car.
Based on the evidence,  I feel that Mr W did exchange  his car for a motorbike.  This is 
because hes shown  he no longer owned the car after 31 March  2019, and its not disputed  
that the car then passed an MOT on 11 April. This wouldnt have  happened  if the car had 
been stripped  for parts, and then sold for scrap by Mr W.
Kindertons also say that they cant be held responsible for Mr Ws decision to exchange his 
car for a motorbike  with a lower value. But if they hadnt given the engineer  and TPI the 
wrong information, then Mr Ws car wouldnt have  been declared  a total loss. Instead the TPI 
wouldve paid for the repairs  to the rear of the car. And, because Mr W maintained that the 
recovery agent had caused the damage to the front of the car, this is the complaint he 
wouldve brought to the Claims Management  Ombudsman instead.
So Mr Ws actions  were as a direct  result of being told his car was a total loss; which itself 
was a direct  result of Kindertons giving the incorrect information to the engineer  and TPI. 
Because of this I will be holding Kindertons responsible for Mr Ws choice to exchange  his 
car for a motorbike.
Mr W was expecting to have a car with a salvage value of £392.40 and a payment of 
£2,877.60; a total value  £3,270. Instead he had a motorbike valued at £1,175 and a £640 
payment; a total value £1,815. So Kindertons giving the incorrect  information has caused Mr 
W a direct  financial loss of £1,455. I agree  they should pay this to him, along with interest 
from the day Mr W was paid the £640 to the day Kindertons pay him the £1,455.
The investigator also recommended Kindertons pay £75 to compensate Mr W for the trouble 
and upset theyve  caused him. I agree with this is reasonable compensation for the 
inconvenience and trouble Mr W has suffered as a result of Kindertons actions.
putting things right
Kindertons Ltd:
Pay Mr W £1,455 for the financial loss caused by their giving the TPI and engineer 
incorrect details about the accident.
Pay 8% annual simple  interest  on the £1,455, from the date Mr W was paid the cash-
in-lieu by the TPI, to the day they pay Mr W the £1,455.
Pay Mr W an additional £75 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN05822105my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Kindertons Ltd must follow  the 
directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0582210