K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Northern  Bank Limited mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M bought the policy when she took out a loan in 2000. The loan included an amount  to 
pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  because:
I think its likely Northern Bank  made  Mrs M aware that she had a choice  about  buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it out  although I understand why she might not 
remember that. Although I dont  have a copy of Mrs Ms actual credit  agreement, which 
isnt surprising given  how long ago the loan was repaid, Ive seen an example of the type 
of agreement that was in use at the time. This had a section where a customer  would 
have to tick yes or no to say if they wanted the PPI. And they would have had to sign 
to confirm their choice. So I think its likely Mrs M ticked yes for the PPI to be added.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mrs M  and it seems  to have been right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Although Mrs M would have 
received generous sick pay from her employer at the time, the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to this and for longer than she would have received full pay.
The example  credit agreement shows the cost of the policy would have  been  set out 
separately  including the amount of the premium, the interest payable on the premium  
and the monthly  cost.  So I think Mrs M would have understood how much  the PPI would 
cost if she kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Mrs M made a successful claim she 
couldve got back quite a bit more than she paid for it. 
Mrs M wouldve got back  only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Northern Bank  thought  about this when it recommended the 
policy, or if it explained the situation  clearly to Mrs M. But I havent seen anything  to 
suggest she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  
wasnt right for her  or that better  information  about this wouldve stopped her buying  it.
Its possible Northern Bank didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mrs M doesnt  appear to have been  affected  by any of those things.
Ref: DRN07557342my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0755734