K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage account Mr and Mrs G hold with Pepper (UK) Limited  
under its trading name  of Engage Credit.  For simplicitys sake, Ill refer to the business  
throughout as Engage. 
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the way Engage  has managed  their mortgage following a 
court order  in 2014. They say that because Engage applies  fees and charges to the 
mortgage  on which it then charges interest   their balance is still going  up despite them 
struggling to pay what the court told them to pay. Theyre  now facing the prospect of being 
taken back to court for possible eviction. Mr and Mrs G think  Engage should capitalise their 
arrears and give them a clean slate to pay the mortgage over the remaining term.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 17 January 2019, I set out the reasons  why I wasnt 
persuaded this complaint should  be upheld. The provisional decision is attached to, and 
forms part of, this final decision. I gave the parties  until 31 January 2019  to reply; that was 
extended, at Mr and Mrs Gs request, to 8 February 2019. Mr and Mrs G responded to say, 
in summary:
They dont agree that some of the evidence isnt relevant; they consider everything  
relevant;
They withheld monthly payments because no one at Engage  was listening to them.  But 
ring-fenced the money. It did look as though  they might need to use the money because 
Mr Gs mother  was ill, but she has since died.
Its ridiculous  to say Engage has been patient when its tried every  means  possible  to 
evict them.
They are now trying to sell the house to repay  the mortgage in full.
Engage didnt have anything further  to say.
my findings
I begin by saying Im sorry to learn  of Mr and Mrs Gs recent bereavement;  thats a difficult 
situation to deal with on its own, even before the stresses of everyday normal  life are then 
included.
As far as the complaint itself is concerned, Ive considered  all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded I should  change  my view of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G say I should regard everything as relevant. I fully understand why they say 
that, and of course its their right to think in those terms. When  youre that close to a stressful  
situation for so long,  its a natural subjective  reaction.  But Im impartial and my role requires 
me to exercise my discretion, step back and take an objective overview. Thats  what Ive 
done, even though I appreciate Mr and Mrs G wont agree with my viewpoint.
Mr and Mrs G have had a long battle with mortgage  arrears; I acknowledged in the 
provisional decision how stressful  and pressured  that must have been  for them.  And yes, I 
realise that Engage has used the legal remedies available  to it, but its not unfair for lenders 
Ref: DRN00954102to do that. One of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract  is that a 
lender has the right to enforce its security to recover money owed to it. 
It would be entirely inequitable and inappropriate for me to remove,  fetter, or otherwise 
interfere with, that right in a final decision on Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, regardless of their 
situation. As things stand,  though,  Mr and Mrs G have remained with their family, in their 
family home, for a considerable amount of time that they might otherwise not have had. 
Also, whatever the frustrations  that led to them doing so, I cant  emphasise enough the 
extent to which Mr and Mrs G have harmed  their situation (and under-mined their case) by 
deliberately withholding their mortgage payments.
Lastly, Im sorry if Mr and Mrs G think Im avoiding making a decision  here;  the simple fact is, 
to decide in their favour requires me to second-guess retrospectively  the decision  of a court 
and/or the commercial  judgement of a lender. For the reasons set out above  and in the 
provisional decision, it would be wrong  of me to do that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order or award 
against Pepper (UK) Limited. My final decision concludes this services  consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN00954103CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
This complaints about  a mortgage account Mr and Mrs G hold with Pepper (UK) Limited under its 
trading name of Engage Credit. For simplicitys sake, Ill refer to the business  throughout  as Engage. 
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy  with the way Engage has managed their mortgage following  a court order 
in 2014. They say that because Engage applies  fees and charges to the mortgage  on which it then 
charges interest  their balance is still going up despite them struggling  to pay what  the court told 
them to pay. Theyre now facing the prospect of being taken back to court for possible eviction. Mr 
and Mrs G think Engage should capitalise their arrears and give them  a clean  slate to pay the 
mortgage over the remaining term.
background
Mr and Mrs G took the mortgage out in 2006. They got into financial difficulties after suffering various 
injuries and illnesses  that impacted  on their business. Mr and Mrs G have been in arrears  since 2008 
and have faced several court actions by Engage. In January 2014,  with the arrears  exceeding 
£42,000, a court granted Engage a suspended possession order (SPO) conditional upon Mr and Mrs 
G paying  the contractual monthly payment (CMP)  plus an extra  £156. 
Mr and Mrs G continued to struggle  to meet these payments, and the overall mortgage balance 
increased. Engage took them back to court in October 2016 looking to enforce  the SPO.  An eviction 
warrant was issued but not enforced; instead, the payment agreement  was renewed. Mr and Mrs Gs 
financial situation had improved by now and they kept to the arrangement. Their  arrears  balance 
gradually fell, but the overall mortgage balance  went up. 
This was because there was a second account (sub -account) to their mortgage, comprising  the fees 
and charges applied due to the arrears, and additional interest  charged thereon. What wasnt 
apparent at the time of the 2014  court  order was that Engages calculation of the CMP  didnt factor  in 
the sub-account. 
The interest  charged on the sub-account each month was more than the £156 extra Mr and Mrs G 
were paying  under the court  order. This meant however hard they tried to keep to the court order, Mr 
and Mrs G saw their overall debt rising. They complained,  asking that the arrears be consolidated  into 
the mortgage, and a new CMP calculated to let them pay the mortgage off. When Engage  refused, 
they also stopped paying the extra amount, as a protest.  Engage began  fresh action to evict them. 
That action was put on hold whilst we considered the complaint.
When our investigator  looked  at the case, her initial thoughts were to recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She said Engage  should agree to capitalise the arrears, fees and charges and set a new 
CMP that she thought Mr and Mrs G should be able to afford. Alternatively, she suggested Engage 
might capitalise the arrears only, and freeze the interest on the fees and charges.
Engage wasnt prepared to do this and asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  
Before that happened, the investigator reconsidered the case herself, and issued a fresh view of how 
the case  might  be resolved.   As she saw it, the underlying  problem was that when the court issued the 
SPO in 2014,  it wasnt aware that the CMP didnt  cover the sub-account. 
Had it known this, she reasoned that the court order would have to have been drawn on terms 
requiring Mr and Mrs G to pay more than they actually  were ordered to pay. But she also reasoned 
that if that had happened,  Mr and Mrs G would still have struggled  to pay it, just as they had the 
lesser amount; at least until October 2016 when things stabilised. As a new basis for settling the 
complaint, the investigator said Engage should credit  the mortgage  account  with the extra  amount 
Ref: DRN00954104that Mr and Mrs G would  have paid after October 2016 if the 2014 SPO  had ordered them to pay 
enough to cover the sub-account as well as the mortgage itself.
Engage again asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, and so its come to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive not gone into great detail in setting  out what the complaints about.  Thats deliberate;  ours is an 
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. Ive read 
and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  
mention something,  it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. I assure  the parties  that Ive considered 
all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
this complaint. 
Ill start with a general point. Deliberately  withholding payments that are required under the terms of a 
contract as a protest against  how the lender is treating you is never a good  idea. I appreciate  
Mr and Mrs G were frustrated that Engage wouldnt  help them, But not making payments when they 
were able to could only ever make things worse, not better. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G ring-fenced the amounts  they withheld, intending  to pay them once  
theyd got an agreement with Engage. But the investigator  has told me that when she asked them  
about making  up the payments, Mr G told her they now intended using the money for a family 
emergency. That doesnt help their position  either. 
This is a difficult  situation for Mr and Mrs G; theyve struggled  for a long time to keep their family  
home. The pressure to do that must have been immense, and Im not unsympathetic towards their 
broader position, albeit  that their finances are currently more stable than they have been for a long 
time. That said, as I mentioned earlier,  their action in withholding payments they were  able to make 
has arguably  made  things worse, not better.
Its worth placing the current situation in context.  More than ten years have  passed since this 
mortgage first went into arrears. Yet Mr and Mrs G still live in the mortgaged  property. That suggests  
to me that Engage may have  been more patient than it needed to be.
But putting that aside  for a moment,  the underlying  problem here is about  more  than just what  Engage  
has or hasnt  done to help borrowers in difficulty. Its that the SPO from January 2014 was based on 
an incomplete  understanding on the courts part of Engages accounting  procedures. Ive thought hard 
about all of the possible solutions that have  been  suggested  up to now, and frankly,  none of them  sit 
well with me. 
For this service to order  Engage to capitalise the arrears (either with or without the fees and charges 
as well) puts us in the rather dangerous  territory  of second-guessing Engages  commercial judgement 
on what it considers  Mr and Mrs G can afford. Its generally not our place to make lenders  
commercial decisions for them, and Im not minded to do so here.
But I have even graver misgivings with the idea of second-guessing  what the court  would  have 
decided in 2014 if it had been better informed about how the sub-account would behave. It seems  to 
me that only the court should be allowed to revisit  that question. 
Ref: DRN00954105As I mentioned earlier,  Engage had begun fresh  court  action shortly before the complaint  came to us, 
because of Mr and Mrs G stopping the SPO payments.  It halted  that action for us to look at the 
complaint, but I actually  think that fresh legal  action is the opportunity thats needed  to allow the court 
to revisit  the 2014 order, and everything thats happened  since, in the light of what  is now known 
about the sub-account.
Engage will no doubt tell the court why it believes it should be granted  possession of the mortgaged  
property. But Mr and Mrs G will be able to tell the court about the sub-account, any why, despite their 
best efforts  to bring the arrears down  in accordance with the SPO, the overall debt has gone up. The 
court can listen to everything both sides say, and make its decision accordingly.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Pepper  (UK) Limited trading  as Engage Credit. 
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 31 January 2019, or sooner  if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0095410