K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  PLC trading as Lloyds Bank (Lloyds)  wrongly  debited  
£5,000 from his account, when he withdrew  £500  in cash.
background
On 16 November 2017, Mr D went to his local branch of Lloyds with a cheque made payable 
to himself, in order to withdraw  cash.  The numbers on the cheque  said £5,000 but the words 
said £500. Mr D says he only took £500 away from the bank, and not the £5,000 debit that 
shows on his statement. He wants Lloyds  to pay him the remaining £4,500.
Lloyds says Mr D was given £5,000.  It says the branchs till records  show  £5,000 was 
withdrawn. And that CCTV footage of the withdrawal showed £5,000 being counted in front 
of Mr D before a bulky envelope  was passed  through the glass  window, as it was wouldnt fit 
through the slot in the counter.
Lloyds apologised  for the poor customer service Mr D had experienced in bringing his 
complaint and paid him £100  in recognition  of the distress and inconvenience it had caused 
him. But Lloyds  rejected  Mr Ds complaint that he should be paid a further  £4,500.
Mr Ds daughter, Mrs S brought his complaint to us on his behalf. Our investigator found that 
Lloyds had deleted  the CCTV footage 28 days after the incident, in accordance with its 
standard procedure.  But the branch manager  had viewed the footage before it was deleted. 
Our investigator was satisfied that the tills balanced at the end of the day and with the 
explanation Lloyds gave to Mr D regarding what was seen on the CCTV footage.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said it was suspicious that Lloyds deleted the CCTV footage, when it 
knew a complaint was outstanding. And that Lloyds should have questioned the different 
values on the cheque.  She says neither she nor Mr D could find the £5,000,  and that Lloyds 
had taken advantage of an elderly  and vulnerable customer. She asked for an ombudsman 
to review the matter  afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr D, so Ive explained the 
reasons for my decision below.
Mrs S is adamant that Mr D only withdrew £500. She says he had no reason to withdraw  
£5,000 in cash, that he usually withdraws  around £500 to use as spending money, and that 
he never withdraws large sums in cash and would have no reason to do so.
Ive looked at Mr Ds account statements for the 10 months before the withdrawal in 
question. I can see that he regularly withdraws  between £100 and £600 over the counter. 
Those withdrawals are usually spaced out over a period of weeks  or months,  which ties in 
with Mr Ds explanation  that those withdrawals  are for general spending money. And there  
are no withdrawals or groups of withdrawals  close to £5,000 on the statements Ive seen.
There are four-figure payments out of Mr Ds account, but none of them are cash 
withdrawals. Ive also seen Mr Ds cheque  stub,  that says £500. And of course the words  on 
Ref: DRN06730832the cheque Mr D presented to the bank also said £500. While the numbers  on the cheque do 
say £5,000, on balance, it seems  that Mr D only intended to withdraw £500. But that doesnt  
necessarily mean that he did withdraw £500.
Lloyds says that the branch manager tallied up the tills on 16 November 2017, and couldnt  
see any discrepancy. And that the branch manager, together  with the assistant branch 
manager, reviewed  CCTV footage  that showed Mr D making the withdrawal. Lloyds deleted 
the CCTV footage  a month after it was recorded,  as is its standard practice. Ill address that 
issue later,  but for now, Lloyds has described what the branch manager  and assistant 
branch manager  saw:
they can see [Mr D] at the counter, he moved  away from the counter for around 10 minutes 
which suggests they had to get money from the safe. CCTV shows the client being  handed a 
large envelope and had to be given to him by the side of the counter which is where the 
change is handed  to customers as the envelope would not got go through the window on the 
counter.
I also asked Lloyds to find out what the cashier can remember. And I asked  Mr D what he 
can remember from the withdrawal. Mr D said he wanted to withdraw £500 for general 
spending money. He says the cashier  went to check something and that the withdrawal took 
longer than usual,  maybe five to 10 minutes.  He says the money was passed to him through  
the small window at the bottom of the counter, and that it was counted  in front of him, in 10s 
and 20s as he had requested.
The cashier says he can remember telling the customer  to take a seat, as he didnt have 
£5,000 in his till. He says he left the secure  area to look for management to get the money 
from the main safe. He recalls asking Mr D what denominations he required, to which  the 
Mr D replied "in fifties"  please. The cashier  says he ran the 50's through the note counter 
and put the two bundles  in a white envelope and passed it through  the lower section of the 
counter as this envelope would not fit in through the top.
So both parties  have a similar  recollection  of the logistics, save  for the crucial  matter of how 
much money was handed over.
Ive reviewed the records sent to me by Lloyds, showing the cash  withdrawals and till 
balances for the day in question. Theres a record  of a withdrawal of £5,000, and I cant  see 
anything to suggest the tills were  £4,500 up, as would be the case  if the cash  was 
dispensed, but not taken  by Mr D.
Mrs S has also suggested that the numbers on the cheque  could have  originally said £500, 
and that a third zero could have been  added by someone at the bank. Its difficult  for me to 
make any kind of forensic examination of the writing on the cheque.  Im not a handwriting 
expert and, unlike a Court, I cant call on such an expert to help me decide if that was the 
case.
But Ive looked  at the cheque, and thought about  what Mrs S has said.  Having done so, I 
dont think I can say with any confidence that the number has been doctored. The third zero 
doesnt look so different  to the other zeros that I could confidently say it was written by a 
different person to the rest of the cheque. And the spacing between the numbers looks 
natural to my eye. 
Ref: DRN06730833Based on what Ive seen,  I think its more  likely  than not that Mr D wrote  £5,000-00  himself.  
I accept that he may have  done  so in error,  but I cant  reasonably  say the numbers were  
doctored or entered by anyone other than Mr D.
I have to weigh up all of the evidence Ive seen and decide what  I think is more likely than 
not to have happened. Having done  so, Im satisfied  that, on balance, £5,000 was correctly  
debited from Mr Ds account.  The till records from the day show a £5,000 withdrawal and 
that the till balanced at the end of the day  i.e. it did not have more (or less) money in it than 
it should have.   Which means its more likely  than not that £5,000 was dispensed.
In turn, that means  that the two most  likely explanations are: a) £5,000 was given to Mr D or 
b) £500 was given to Mr D and £4,500 was either  misplaced or taken by the Lloyds staff.  
Theres no evidence to suggest the money  was misplaced  both parties agree that money  
was handed over (albeit they disagree on the amounts) and it seems  unlikely  that £4,500 
could simply go missing  in a bank, given  they are heavily regulated and must keep accurate 
records to show how much money passes through their accounts. 
And I havent seen  anything to suggest that Lloyds staff took £4,500  and gave Mr D the 
remaining £500. Lloyds  has told me that the branch manager and assistant branch manager 
reviewed the CCTV footage. While  I accept  that, to Mr D, this may have the feel of Lloyds 
checking its own homework, I still believe it to be persuasive evidence. 
If what Lloyds says is not true, it would mean that both the manager and assistant manager 
were involved  in a deception or cover-up, along  with the cashier. And I dont find that a 
plausible explanation, in light of the evidence Ive seen. I understand the Police also told Mrs 
S they wouldnt investigate, due to a lack of evidence of any wrongdoing.
Mrs S says she searched Mr Ds house and only found £480  in a jacket  pocket. She says he 
went straight home, had no visitors  that day and there was nobody else in the house. She 
says the debit only came to light when Mrs S checked his statements a few days later. I 
dont think theres enough  evidence for me to establish what  happened to the money after it 
was dispensed.  So all I can reasonably say is that the evidence Ive seen  suggests  it was 
probably given  to Mr D.
Lloyds has admitted it made mistakes. It accepts it should have checked the numbers and 
words on the cheque and I think it would have  been  helpful if Lloyds had kept a recording of 
the CCTV footage.  But, in view of what Ive said above (that its more likely  than not that 
Mr D was given £5,000),  I cant say that Lloydss failing resulted in Mr D suffering a loss, as 
my assessment of the evidence is that its more likely than not that Lloyds gave Mr D the 
money.
Lloyds also paid Mr D £100 in compensation for its poor customer  service, when Mr D first 
raised his complaint. And while I appreciate Mr D would  have  been  frustrated at Lloyds for 
being unhelpful, I think £100 fairly compensates him for the trouble and upset this element 
alone caused him. I should stress that this only relates  to the initial  service issues Mr D 
experienced when trying to raise his complaint, and that it doesnt relate to the cash 
withdrawal itself, or any of the subsequent events.
I should say at this point  that I dont disbelieve Mr D. Ive found  him to be a credible and 
honest witness, and I have no doubt  hes not seeking to mislead anyone here. Its simply 
Ref: DRN06730834that I havent seen  sufficient  evidence to support what he says. And the only fair way for me 
to judge this particular matter, is to weigh up all of the available  evidence and decide what is 
the more likely explanation.
Mrs S has told me that this incident  has left Mr D worried about  returning to the branch. 
Thats entirely understandable and I dont doubt this whole incident  has been upsetting for 
Mr D. But I cant  reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for that, given  Ive said it correctly  
debited Mr Ds account. Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mr D had hoped  for. And Id like to 
thank him for his cooperation and patience while Ive been looking into this matter. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0673083