K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled a claim 
on his car insurance  policy. Hes also complained that his premiums  increased as a result.  
background
Mr G was involved in an accident on a petrol  station  forecourt  and reported  the incident  to 
LV. He said another driver  had driven  into the back of his car when he was manoeuvring 
next to one of the pumps. Mr G said a witness had seen  the accident  and agreed  the other 
driver was at fault.  
LV reviewed  the claim and didnt think it was one they could defend. They  said this was 
because the witness  said Mr G was reversing at the time and that CCTV footage supported  
this. LV also said it wasnt possible to say the other driver was speeding and because Mr G 
was reversing it was his responsibility  to make sure it was clear to do so. LV settled the other 
drivers claim  without an admission of liability. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He said the witness had blamed the other driver  for the 
accident and didnt think LV had fairly decided the claim. Because  of this he complained. LV 
reviewed the complaint  and didnt think theyd done anything  wrong.  They said as Mr G was 
reversing it was his responsibility to make  sure it was clear  to do so. Mr G didnt agree and 
brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Gs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld.  She found  
that LV had reviewed CCTV footage of the accident along with the witness  statement. As 
both confirmed Mr G was reversing at the time of the accident, she didnt think LV had 
unfairly dealt with the claim. She also found  that Mr Gs premiums had increased at renewal  
because of the claim and Mr Gs no claims discount  being reduced. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair as the other  driver  had been driving too fast. 
As Mr G didnt  agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  whos at fault for an accident  as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look 
to see that the insurer has made a fair and reasonable  decision thats  in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy  give LV the right to take 
over, defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. This might mean LV makes a decision Mr G 
disagrees with, but the policy allows it. Ive considered whether LV have done so fairly and 
reasonably. 
Ref: DRN04011192LV investigated the claim on Mr Gs policy by getting  his version  of events, reviewing the 
witness statement and viewing CCTV of the accident. LV said the CCTV and witness 
statement both support that Mr G was reversing at the time of the accident. LV also said its 
not possible to show the other driver  was driving  too fast, but even if it could it didnt think it 
was able to defend the claim. This is because its Mr Gs responsibility  to ensure its clear to 
manoeuvre. And because he was reversing at the time of the accident LV didnt think  it was 
a claim they could defend. 
I understand this will be disappointing to Mr G, but Im not persuaded that LV have done  
anything wrong. I say this because they reviewed all the evidence available about the 
accident and because of the circumstance decided it wasnt  a claim which  would have 
reasonable prospects of success if it went to court. Im satisfied because of this LV have 
made a fair and reasonable decision which is in line with the policy  terms. So, Im not going  
to interfere with LVs decision to settle this claim. 
Ive also looked  at the increase in premium Mr G was given when his policy renewed. This 
was because Mr G has a fault claim on his record and his no claims discount has been 
reduced. This is in line with what would happen to other customers  in similar circumstances, 
I therefore dont  think LV has done anything wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0401119