K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
background
Mrs D bought the policy in 2000 at the same  time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint, and Ill explain why.
FICL has given us a copy of the application  form that was completed for Mrs Ds store  card. 
There is a section titled Account Cover   there  is a brief description  of the cover.  In the 
section it says Only  sign this box if you require Account Cover  - Mrs D has signed in the 
box, so I think this reflected what she wanted.  If she didnt want the PPI she could have left 
the box blank  or questioned this at the time. So I think FICL made Mrs D aware  she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and she chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs D  so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But FICL did have  to give Mrs D enough  information  to allow her to decide  for herself  whether  
or not to take the PPI.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been  and she says it wasnt. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  for 
example, she was in full time employment and shes said she didnt suffer  with any pre-
existing medical conditions. It also looks like the PPI was affordable  at the time.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments,  including what shes said about  her sick pay and 
other means. Mrs D says she was entitled  three to six months  sick pay from her employer if 
shed been too ill to work. But this policy wouldve helped cover  her payments if shed lost her 
job or been too ill to work until the full balance was repaid, or until she returned to work  and 
this would have  been in addition to any sick pay she mightve got and for potentially longer 
than her sick pay would have lasted. 
Ref: DRN04194482Mrs D has said she could have relied  on other  means to help with the repayments  but this 
policy is likely to also have paid in addition to any other means  she may have had and she 
could have kept her other means  intact for other  important living  expenses. Mrs D also said 
she could have relied on her husband  to help with the repayments  but peoples  
circumstances can change and her husband may not have been in a position to help when 
needed.
So overall, although the information provided  by FICL couldve been clearer,  based on what  I 
know about Mrs Ds circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been  useful  to her and I 
dont think that more, or better, information wouldve made her act differently and not buy the 
policy. So I dont think Mrs D lost out as a result of anything FICL mightve done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0419448