K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a cancellation 
claim under their travel insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a single trip travel insurance  policy on 13 May 2018  for a holiday they
had booked and were due to take in September 2018.
Unfortunately Mr D needed surgery and they were advised to re-schedule  their holiday. 
As this was not possible  they cancelled it and put in a claim. ERGO declined the claim 
on the basis that it was for a pre-existing condition which  wasnt  covered by the policy.
ERGO relied on the medical evidence which showed that Mr D had seen his GP on 23 
April 2018 with pain in his leg for two to three months. He was prescribed analgesia and 
advised to return if things didnt improve.  Mr D returned to his GP on 15 May 2018 and 
was referred for an x-ray. Osteoarthritis was diagnosed and hip replacement  surgery  
recommended. The holiday was cancelled in July 2018.
In the claim form his GP writes  that medical attention was first sought on 23 April 2018  for 
symptoms leading to the eventual cancellation. ERGO said that the policy didnt cover his 
condition and therefore his claim for cancellation wasnt  covered. Mr D argued that this was 
unfair as he had no idea that he would need  surgery  if he did he wouldnt have booked the 
holiday. He referred  his complaint to our service.
Mr and Mrs D took out a single trip travel insurance  policy on 13 May 2018  for a holiday they
had booked and were due to take in September 2018.
Unfortunately Mr D needed surgery and they were advised to re-schedule  their holiday. 
As this was not possible  they cancelled it and put in a claim. ERGO declined the claim 
on the basis that it was for a pre-existing condition which  wasnt  covered by the policy.
ERGO relied on the medical evidence which showed that Mr D had seen his GP on 23 
April 2018 with pain in his leg for two to three months. He was prescribed analgesia and 
advised to return if things didnt improve.  Mr D returned to his GP on 15 May 2018 and 
was referred for an x-ray. Osteoarthritis was diagnosed and hip replacement  surgery  
recommended. The holiday was cancelled in July 2018.
In the claim form his GP writes  that medical attention was first sought on 23 April 2018  for 
symptoms leading to the eventual cancellation. ERGO said that the policy didnt cover his 
condition and therefore his claim for cancellation wasnt  covered. Mr D argued that this was 
unfair as he had no idea that he would need  surgery  if he did he wouldnt have booked the 
holiday. He referred  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think  that ERGO had done  anything wrong and didnt recommend 
that the complaint be upheld. Mr D appealed.
I issued a provisional decision  on 10 September 2020. My provisional  findings  were as 
follows:
 Mr and Mrs D purchased  their policy online. It didnt  offer cover  for pre-existing conditions.
Ref: DRN03519362 The health  declaration on page 1 confirms this. It said:
This Policy  does not provide cover for any claim relating directly or indirectly to Pre-
Existing Medical Conditions and Health Problems. You must  therefore ensure that 
You answer all questions about  yourself and anyone else insured under Your Policy fully, 
honestly, and to the best of Your knowledge as failure to answer  Our questions  accurately 
may affect  the cover We provide and our ability to pay Your claim. Regretfully We are also 
unable to provide  cover  for any undiagnosed  medical condition,  or a condition  where  You 
are currently  on a waiting  list, undergoing  treatment  or tests or, where You are waiting on 
the results of tests.
Please refer to the Declaration on the following page for further information.
Should You have any doubts  or concerns about this exclusion relating to Pre-Existing 
Medical Conditions and Health Problems please  contact
the Customer Services on 0161  439 0333.
This was followed on page  2 by Important questions relating  to Health, Activities and the 
Acceptance of Your Insurance.
Question 10 asked:
Have You or Your travelling companions consulted or been treated by a GP or Consultant  or
taken prescribed medication in the 12 months  prior to:
a.The date the insurance was arranged  or renewed?
As Mr D had consulted his GP in the 12 months prior to the date the insurance was 
arranged he should  have answered  yes to this question.
The document then goes  on to say:
If You answered Yes  to any part of questions 8, 9 and 10 there is no cover for claims 
related directly or indirectly  to Pre-Existing Medical  Conditions and Health Problems.  If 
You have  already bought  the Policy, Contact:  Tel 0161 439 0333
I appreciate that Mr D didnt consider that he had a pre-existing  medical condition  so didnt 
consider it necessary to call the number. I understand his rationale that had he thought he 
had anything more  than a trapped nerve or muscular problem he wouldnt have booked  a 
fairly expensive holiday.
But the policy defines pre-existing medical conditions as:
Any past, current or reoccurring medical  condition, Mental Illness  or set of symptoms 
whether these have  been diagnosed  or not, that have been investigated or treated at any 
time prior to travel, even  if this condition is considered to be stable and under control.
So even though I accept that Mr D would  have been  unaware  that his symptoms were in 
fact the result of osteoarthritis in his hip for which a total hip replacement was necessary,  I 
cant ignore the fact that symptoms were  present for which he had seen his GP and been 
investigated. Mr Ds GP confirmed on the claim form that the date on which  she was first 
consulted about  illness which  made  the cancellation of the trip necessary was 23 April 2018.
Ref: DRN03519363I recognise that no diagnosis had been given when the holiday was booked, but that 
doesnt mean that symptoms of it werent present. The policy  definition  of pre-existing 
condition specifically includes  conditions whether diagnosed or not.
Im satisfied that had if Mr D had called  the number shown in the policy document  it 
would have been explained to him that the insurer was unable to provide cover for pre-
existing medical conditions, including undiagnosed conditions.
I recognised that my provisional findings  would be disappointing for Mr and Mrs D, but in 
the circumstances I couldnt say that ERGO had treated them unfairly  in declining  their 
claim for cancellation. Accordingly I didnt intend to uphold their complaint. I invited the 
parties to make any further  comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party responded to my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and repeated above I dont find that 
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly in declining  the claim made  
under their travel insurance policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 November  2020.
Lindsey Woloski
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0351936