K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited has unfairly  recorded  a claim on his 
policy even though he withdrew  it.
background
In March 2018 Mr S contacted Admiral as his roof had suffered damage.  He thought  the 
damage had been  caused by a storm. 
Admirals loss adjuster  visited  Mr S property. Mr S says the loss adjuster told him given his 
policy excess it may be cheaper for him to have the repair carried out himself. As a result, 
Mr S says he didnt continue with his claim.  
When Mr S later came to renew his insurance,  he noticed that a claim  had been  recorded 
under his policy. He complained to Admiral  and said this should  be removed, as Admiral  
didnt actually carry out a repair. 
Admiral said the claim had been  declined as it thought the damage was a result of wear and 
tear. And it had acted correctly in recording the claim, as Mr S had confirmed that he wanted 
to go ahead when  he notified it of the damage.
Our investigator didnt  think Admiral  had acted unfairly in recording this information.  She said 
a loss adjuster  had attended his property and viewed  the roof. And just because he decided 
to pay for the repairs himself after this doesnt mean it shouldnt be recorded  as a claim on 
his policy. 
Mr S didnt agree so the matter  has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ive explained why below.
When Mr S contacted Admiral, he wanted to make  a claim on his policy.  Admiral  says it 
explained his excess and the process and Mr S confirmed  he wanted to go ahead. I havent 
listened to this call, but Im satisfied its accurate in that Mr S wanted to go ahead with the 
claim as a loss adjuster  attended his property  shortly  after.
The loss adjusters report says the damage was caused  by wear and tear, so wouldnt be 
covered under the policy. So I accept its likely the loss adjuster told the consumer he should 
carry out the repairs himself. But I dont think  this means Mr S didnt make a claim on his 
policy. Mr S did intend to make a claim,  and Ive no reason to believe that what has been  
recorded for this has been done so incorrectly.
The recording of claims on the claims underwriting exchange (CUE) is an industry  wide 
practice. Insurers generally want to know if a property has suffered loss or damage, whether 
it pays out or not. This information can be used to build up a better  picture of risk and its 
reasonable for Admiral to do this. So Im satisfied Admiral has acted fairly in recording the 
claim. 
Ref: DRN02994912Mr S hasnt made a complaint about the claim for storm damage being declined,  so I havent  
considered this as part of my decision.
I realise this will disappoint Mr S but I dont think Admiral needs to do anything differently.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to do 
anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0299491