K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that when  he made a claim on his legal  expenses insurance policy,  LAMP  
Insurance Company Limited  wouldnt  pay all the disbursements incurred by his solicitors 
during the legal claim.
background
Mr S took out an After  the Event insurance policy to provide cover for legal fees for a claim 
against a third party. The claim concluded and his solicitors made a claim for costs. LAMP 
paid most  of the costs but didnt  pay fees for a medical agency, which  had provided  medical  
evidence. LAMP said these seemed excessive and without a breakdown it couldnt decide  
whether the fees claimed for were reasonable. 
Mr Ss solicitors  said LAMP  had previously paid similar medical  fees without issue but LAMP 
said this wasnt relevant because each claim was assessed on its own merits. 
When Mr S brought his complaint  this service, our investigator asked Mr Ss solicitors  to 
provide a breakdown of the invoices. Although the solicitors provided further invoices from 
the medical agency, LAMP said that the breakdowns provided were still not enough for it to 
validate the fees. 
Our investigator didnt  think the breakdowns were detailed enough  he said the descriptions 
in the original invoices provided little to no detail; in the breakdown provided later on the 
descriptions remained broad; and there  were some  inconsistencies. So he thought it was 
reasonable for LAMP not to pay the claim.
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say LAMP will pay disbursements  that are reasonably  and properly 
incurred in pursuing  the claim.  Theres no dispute  that it was reasonable to obtain medical 
evidence  Mr S needed  it to pursue  his legal case. And its reasonable to expect there  will 
be some  fees for this. The issue is not whether its reasonable to pay for medical evidence, 
but whether Mr S has provided enough evidence that the amounts claimed are reasonable. 
Its not reasonable to expect an insurer to pay whatever is charged,  however much  it is. 
LAMP is entitled to check how the fees have been incurred, to decide whether the amount 
being claimed is reasonable.
Although Mr Ss solicitors  have provided some  details about the charges, these dont give a 
detailed breakdown. For example, they dont  say how much time has been spent, how many  
letters sent or how many phone calls made.
And  as our investigator noted  there  appear  to be some  inconsistencies. For example, the 
original invoice doesnt charge for admin fees on all the work done,  and on others, the 
description is different  but the same  fee is charged; and a later invoice has a higher charge 
Ref: DRN02954082but theres no evidence to show  how this amount was incurred  compared  to the previous 
fees.
Mr Ss solicitors  have said they cant get a further  breakdown without further cost. I dont 
think this means the information shouldnt be provided. They  would have been aware of the 
risk of the insurer scrutinising the costs claimed for when deciding  to use a medical agency. 
So its reasonable to expect them to obtain details if they want LAMP to consider these 
costs.
The solicitors have  also said the fees are comparable with other medical agencies and other 
underwriters have accepted those levels of fees. I have to look at this particular case. The 
amount of work  needed  may be different in each case. So whats  charged in another  case 
doesnt necessarily  help decide  what was reasonable in this case. Ive considered evidence 
they have provided  from another  insurer. Although they say they wouldnt tend to question 
fees like this, that doesnt necessarily mean  they would never question  them.
In any event, the fact that another insurer might not seek such a detailed breakdown doesnt 
mean LAMP cant do so. Where someone is asking their insurer to pay large sums of money 
for disbursements,  I think its reasonable to provide evidence of how those disbursements 
have been calculated. In these circumstances  I agree that its reasonable for LAMP  to 
request a breakdown. If thats provided, Id expect  LAMP to consider it. But as it stands, my 
view is that LAMPs decision  not to pay these disbursements is reasonable
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0295408