K822xcomplaint
Mr P says Prydis Wealth Limited gave  him unsuitable advice to switch his Scottish  Widows 
personal pension  into a Self-invested Personal Pension.
background
Mr Ps employer  was looking to expand its operation.  It needed to buy a larger commercial 
premise to achieve  this. Prydis was retained  to provide advice. One option was to fund the 
purchase of the new property using the directors pension schemes. However, there  was a 
shortfall in the amount required.
Mr P was approached by his employer to explore whether  hed be interested in using his 
pension fund to make up the difference. Its of note that as well as being the general 
manager, Mr P was a friend of one of the directors. Mr P was open to exploring the 
possibility of investing.
It was arranged for Prydis  to also give advice to Mr P. After reviewing his existing pension  
provision and finding out about his circumstances and objectives, it provided  him with a 
suitability report and recommendations.
Mr P was advised to switch his Scottish  Widows  personal pension into a SIPP  with Curtis 
Banks. Prydis recommended that he use £100,000 of his fund to make a loan to his 
employer to support  its business development plans. And that the balance of his pension pot 
should be invested via its discretionary fund management (DFM) service.
Funds were  transferred into Mr Ps SIPP in October 2015. And he completed  paperwork to 
put in hand the loan to his employer in November 2015. Things then went quiet until March 
2016 when he asked Prydis for an update  about  the returns  on his fund.
Prydis informed Mr P thered been  problems getting  things moving, for example the pension  
trustees were concerned  about lending such a large portion of his pot to help fund the 
business expansion. Perhaps  because  of delays in getting finance from Mr Ps SIPP  his 
employer arranged an alternative source of finance.
Mr P responded to Prydis expressing his disappointment with progress. He gave instructions 
that no further action  should be taken with regard to his funds  until hed had a chance to 
consider his next steps and discuss matters  with it.
Mr P ultimately ended his relationship with Prydis.  He obtained advice from a different firm 
and arranged to close his SIPP and move his funds to another personal  pension. This took 
effect in August 2016.
Mr P had several concerns about  what  happened.  He says the proposed loan to his 
employer would never have been  permitted under the pension  scheme  rules.  And that in any 
case the advice  he received from Prydis wasnt right for his circumstances.  He was 
concerned his fund had remained out of the market since October  2015. Mr P wanted  over 
£20,000 in compensation  to cover lost interest on his pot, and for fees and charges incurred.
Ref: DRN02708942Prydis says the proposal was suitable  and supported Mr Ps stated objective to help his 
employer. It says the pension trustees were responsible for the delays because they were 
getting to grips with new regulation about  the due diligence necessary on non-standard  
investments and capital  holding  requirements.  But it says the proposal wouldve been  
allowable. Prydis also disputed Mr Ps calculation of redress.
The adjudicator recommended Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think the advice 
hed received was suitable. Prydis disagreed and so the case  was passed  to me for review.  I 
issued my provisional in May.
Prydis disagreed with various aspects of my findings  and conclusions.  Where I havent 
already addressed its arguments, and where  the points it makes are material to my 
consideration, Ill address these in this final decision.
As an aside,  Prydis previously disputed  this Services jurisdiction to consider Mr Ps case. It 
said that his relationship with his employer meant that he wasnt  an eligible complainant. I 
can see in its last response to the adjudicator it made further observations in that regard.
Firstly, Id note an ombudsman has already looked  into whether we have jurisdiction  for 
Mr Ps case  and concluded we do have authority to consider it. I have reviewed the position 
again and while I wont be rehearsing the arguments she made,  I can confirm Ive arrived  at 
the same  conclusion for the same  reasons.  Mr P is an eligible complainant.
I understand the reasonable  point Prydis is making  in its most recent submission on 
jurisdiction, which is about the importance  of consistency of decision making  for all parties  
concerned, where  the circumstances of a case are similar.
Unlike the consideration of the merits of a case - which can be determined on the balance of 
probabilities - jurisdiction  is a matter of fact. Thats  not to say all cases  are black and white,  
there are complexities. But each decision on jurisdiction will be decided  with reference to the 
regulations that set the boundary of our scheme  and the facts specific  to each case. 
Id simply observe that while  cases may appear  similar that doesnt necessarily mean all the 
relevant facts to test jurisdiction are the same.
This rest of my decision will focus on the merits of Mr Ps complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ive reviewed documents provided by Prydis  from around the time Mr Ps personal pension 
plan was switched  to his new SIPP. This includes a record of initial discussions between the 
parties, the fact-find, risk appetite questionnaire and suitability report  with recommendations. 
Ive also read the testimony provided  by both parties.
Ref: DRN02708943whats our general approach where  pensions are being switched?
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in the consumers best interests to 
make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the then Financial Services Authority published a checklist  for pension  switching that 
I think is still helpful today.  It highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer has been switched  to a pension  that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s)  or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In Mr Ps case, Ill be focussing  particularly on his circumstances  and objectives,  as well as 
matters around risk and charges.
Prydis role in advising  Mr P and his employer as separate  clients for the same transaction
I think its of note that Prydis was advising  Mr P as well as his employer. Its provided me 
with assurances that both its clients were dealt with separately. It says its business 
consultancy arm gave  unregulated advice to his employer. Whereas, Mr P received  
regulated advice from one of its financial  advisers.
My concern  here is about the potential perceived or actual conflict  of interest that couldve 
arisen. There may have  been a degree of overlap between the objectives of Mr P and his 
employer in releasing funds from their respective  pension plans to support  business 
expansion. But in reality, each partys circumstances, requirements and priorities  wouldve 
been very different.
There was interaction between different parts of Prydis in respect of the two separate  clients 
it was representing.  For example,  its sister  company was dealing with the conveyancing  on 
the sale and purchase of the commercial properties. And there  was weekly correspondence  
between it and Mr Ps adviser to the extent it impacted on the implementation of her advice.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr P was disadvantaged by the arrangements  here. But 
situations like this are potentially fraught. And at the very least I wouldve expected a clear 
articulation by Mr Ps adviser of the risks associated with his being a counterparty  to a 
substantial financial transaction with his employer. 
Ill return to this matter later when I consider the advice  he was given on risk.
Ref: DRN02708944Mr Ps objectives and circumstances
As Ive mentioned,  Mr Ps employer was looking  to expand its operation in 2015. But it was 
short of capital and so it approached him to see if hed be interested in using some  of his 
pension funds to help enable its move to a new commercial premise.
In responding  to the investigators  view, Prydis said Mr P was keen to assist  his employer 
and that he perceived  this could help his employment situation and be of benefit financially.  
And I can see when Mr P brought his complaint  to us, he said of the proposed arrangement:  
I would have been helping  my employers move to a bigger premise  which  I was willing  to do 
and this may have  secured my employment  for longer as the company would be able to 
expand, but this was the only possible gain and that was not guaranteed.
Prydis said the switch of Mr Ps pension plan to a SIPP was the most suitable way of 
achieving his objective here.  And in response to my provisional decision  it said nothing 
wouldve dissuaded Mr P that assisting his employer by lending money to assist  with the 
purchase of larger  premises was the right thing for him to do.
However, I think Prydis goes too far when it told me Mr P wanted to embed or ingratiate 
himself with management, as this would improve his long-term prospects. If it believed this to 
have been the case its advice to him shouldve provided an effective counterweight, with a 
clear focus  on his best interest in planning  for his retirement. In any case,  I dont think  it 
paints a rounded  picture of what was going on.
Mr P was friends with one of the directors  at the business he worked  for. But from what  Ive 
seen, I dont think it would be correct to conclude his prime motivation in considering  the use 
of his pension  funds to support his employers business plans were altruistic.  Theres no 
dispute that he wanted to help-out,  but this wasnt his only, or even his prime driver.
Its instructive to refer to an early  exchange  in June  2015 between Mr P and Prydis, just after 
initial contact  had been established.  In responding to an enquiry, he says of the potential 
transaction:
for me this is a discussion about whether  or not it is prudent for me to invest  my pension 
fund into a more  risky venture, -one that could of course ultimately improve  my expectations 
at retirement
Mr P was employed as the general manager of the business. He wanted it to succeed  and 
felt that assisting financially could help achieve that end. But I dont think his actions were 
ultimately about securing his own role. These things werent his main concern with regards 
his pension arrangements.  For example, in July 2015 he says to Prydis:
I will be relying  wholly upon my pension fund to provide me with an income in retirement, 
but saying that Im not averse  to risk, and I see this risk in some sense as manageable as I 
have a vested  interest  in the business and in some small way the ability  to drive the future 
growth of [it]
Mr P told us that if he couldve secured a higher return than he was achieving from his 
Scottish Widows  plan by helping his employer that wouldve been ideal. But the least he 
wouldve wanted from the arrangement was to maintain  the returns he was getting from his 
personal pension  plan.
Ref: DRN02708945Further, from the fact find and suitability report,  its clear that while  there were several factors  
in Mr Ps mind, his priority was planning for his retirement.  Im satisfied that Mr Ps primary 
objective was to ensure any arrangement made  was rational in terms of thinking about  his 
future pension provision.
Moving on to Mr Ps circumstances. At the time he received the advice from Prydis he was 
aged 52. His planned retirement age was 65. He was married  without  dependants. He had 
no savings and was living in rented accommodation.
Mr Ps Scottish Widows  plan was his only pension  provision and only asset.  This had been  
established in 2007 with a lump sum transfer  from a former scheme. Hed continued to make  
contributions and by 2015  his fund was worth  around £158,000. Prydis  assessed Mr Ps risk 
appetite as moderate to adventurous. It said his existing personal  pension reflected the 
same profile.
was the advice given to Mr P suitable?
On 22 September  2015, Prydis sent Mr P a suitability report, and in its covering letter  it set 
out its three  recommendations to him. These were to:
-Switch [his] Scottish Widows Personal Pension to a Prydis SIPP.
-Lend 100,000 to [his employer]  initially until March 2016
-[With] the remaining  circa 50,000actively managed on the Prydis Wrap  using  the 
Prydis Discretionary  Investment Management Service.
I think there are a number  of problems with Prydis advice to Mr P.
Prydis says it didnt  advise Mr P on the loan to his employer. This is an odd position to take 
given the report  and letter it sent to him, which contradicts  that statement. Further,  it should 
be aware in any case  that the FCA places a requirement on firms recommending a SIPP   
which it doesnt dispute it did - to also ensure  the suitability of the investments consumers 
are going  to go into.
It seems  the main reason for switching Mr Ps personal pension into a SIPP  was because it 
enabled him to use his funds more flexibly. In particular, the recommended transaction to 
make a loan to his employer. I think its telling that in its initial  response to the investigators 
view Prydis said:
The transfer to a SIPP  was proposed  on the basis that it was the most suitable way of 
achieving Mr Ps objectives. Had he not wished  to assist his employer in this manner, we 
would not otherwise have recommended a switch to another vehicle.
Early discussions between Mr P and Prydis concerned the potential  for him to buy a share of 
his employers new property. He was given an illustration of what  his investment could yield - 
9% per annum from rental income. This compared  to his Scottish Widows fund which had 
averaged 5.7% since the plans inception. 
The switch  of Mr Ps pension plan from Scottish Widows into a SIPP was brought  about  to 
give him more flexibility  in his investment choices. This mayve been justified by the initial 
proposal for investment in his employers new premise, which promised a good return  on 
investment over the medium-term. However, the investment opportunity was withdrawn - 
possibly because his employer decided it didnt want Mr P to have  a share in the property.
Ref: DRN02708946By September 2015  when  the SIPP arrangements were in hand,  it had become clear the 
only option available to Mr P to support  his employers business development was to provide 
loan capital of £100,000  secured against  the new commercial property. The loan wouldve 
been for just 6 months with a return of 7% per annum.
This loan proposal  was fundamentally  different to the investment that had been discussed 
initially. And its difficult to understand how switching Mr Ps personal  pension into a SIPP  
could be justified at this point.
It seems  to me the advice Mr P was given didnt really get to grips with the fundamentals of 
the option being presented to him - the rewards, risks and costs  associated with it. For 
example, I cant see that he received a full illustration of what he could achieve  with his 
pension funds given  the recommendations in comparison  to leaving his pot where it was.
For the opportunity  of providing a short-term  loan, Mr P ended  up with a SIPP which  was far 
more expensive to run. Prydis acknowledged  the total annual charges on his previous plan 
of around 0.8% were competitive. I note that the total charges associated with its 
recommendations represented an increase of 75%,  or nearly  £1000.
Prydis says that Mr P wouldve benefitted from having a DFM.  But this increased his costs. 
And while Mr P didnt want to oversee the funds himself, his existing personal pension  with 
Scottish Widows  was already managed and he also had the option  of moving his money 
between different funds.
In providing advice to Mr P, Prydis told him his Scottish Widows personal pension  reflected 
his moderate to adventurous risk appetite. And the adviser stated  in her report that returns 
had been good. So, it isnt clear  that the alternative  of investing the bulk of his funds into a 
short-term loan for a return  that was likely to be broadly in line with his existing 
arrangements but with added cost and risk was in his best interest.
The investigator said Prydis shouldve warned Mr P about the risks of assisting his employer 
and that these werent mitigated by his status as an employee of the company. He thought it 
was more concerned  with arranging the loan for his employer rather than investing Mr Ps 
pension appropriately.
Prydis disagreed, and it cited  the advice it had given Mr P in July 2015  about the three  main  
risks it saw with the proposal as it was at the time. It told him the main risk with any 
commercial property investment is illiquidity. It warned him about  the potential  for value 
fluctuation and the impact of concentrating too much of his pension pot in a single 
investment. And it covered the risk of the tenant   his employer  defaulting on repayments.
Theres a problem with this analysis of course.  It relates to the medium-term  investment 
prospect Mr P was considering in June/July  2015. Not the short-term loan proposal that 
seemed to be on offer when the switch of his pension took place. Some  of the highlighted 
risks remained relevant, for example in relation to concentrating his funds in one asset.
But there were other significant risks that although outlined as part of a generic list at an 
annex in the suitability report, shouldve been  drawn  out for his specific  attention in relation 
to what was being proposed:
Ref: DRN02708947Cash Risk - where  a fund holds at any one time a substantial proportion of their assets in 
cash, near cash or money  market  instruments, it might not, under such  circumstances, 
participate fully in a rise in market values  of the asset classes the fund would otherwise 
invest in.
Counterparty Risk: The risk that the failure of a Counterparty to meet its obligations leads to 
a financial loss to the fund.
On 7 March 2016 Mr P was looking for an update about how his fund was performing. He 
says:
As its been a few months  since we last spoke about this could you please give me an 
update on the situation with my fund.  Please  confirm  that I am receiving  the returns  that we 
spoke about initially  when I moved  my pension from Scottish Widows to yourselves.
I think Prydis  response below  illustrates  the point Im making here about  a lack of proper risk 
advice at the outset  (bolding is my emphasis):
Unfortunately we have  come up against a couple  of problems that we are still working 
through. The pension trustees are uncomfortable with you lending such a large  
proportion of your  pension fund to [your employer], given that this is your only asset. 
We are still in discussion with Curtis  Banks regarding this to get their decision overturned
 At the same time, we came across legal issues with transferring Unit 1D to [your 
employer] prior to the completion of the sale that is due for 18 March,  which delayed 
matters to the point that it was not worth entering into a transaction that was only going 
to last for 2 months
I have kept an eye on the investments  that your Scottish Widows pension was invested  in 
and whilst you have been out of the market now for almost 5 months, these investments 
have only grown  by 1% during this period, due to the significant  stock market volatility we 
have been experiencing
The type of pension investment that we are looking to put in place for you is very 
different from a standard insurance company  investment and these  sorts of delays 
are not uncommon .
Mr Ps Scottish Widows  pension was his only significant asset.  And whilst he might have 
wanted to take some  investment risk, he could ill afford to lose the funds hed accumulated 
over previous decades. As Prydis had acknowledged in his suitability  report, he had little 
capacity to sustain  investment  losses.
As Ive set out, Mr P was potentially being  exposed to cash  and counterparty  risks. I also 
think the investigator makes a fair point  when he notes  Mr Ps fund returns  wouldve been 
tied into the success or failure of the business  venture. And given his employment income 
was from the same  firm, this undoubtedly  increased his overall personal financial exposure  
in the event of the expansion not being a success.
Taking all these matters together I dont think the advice  Prydis gave Mr P was suitable. It 
shouldve given him an explicit recommendation not to proceed.
Ref: DRN02708948Mr P wasnt  given a clear comparison of the performance of his existing pension plan with 
the SIPP and associated investments proposed. And he wasnt advised about key risks 
associated with the main  transaction,  including  holding funds in cash  for extended periods 
and dealing  with his employer as counterparty.
If all these matters had been explained  to Mr P, and taken together  with the 75% increase  in 
the charges being proposed for managing his pension, I dont think he wouldve gone ahead  
with the switch. He was already invested  in a plan which matched his risk appetite and was 
likely to provide equivalent  returns and at a lower cost.
The only reason for Mr P to have undertaken the switch at the time wouldve been if his sole 
objective had been to help his employer with a short-term capital injection, irrespective of the 
consequences for his future retirement  plans. Prydis says this is the case. 
We know Mr P was keen to help out, for the understandable reasons Ive set out. But if hed 
been adamant he wanted to make  a short-term loan to the business, Id still have  expected 
Prydis to have  advised  him against  such a course of action and to have set out in much 
clearer terms what the potential consequences  were for him.
Id also have expected to see a proper insistent client agreement, in Mr Ps own words  
acknowledging the fact that he was going  ahead  despite understanding the significant risks 
and that his decision was against  the recommendation  of the adviser, and why he wanted to 
proceed.
Actually, we know Mr Ps main  priority  was retirement planning. And if Prydis  had given him 
effective advice he wouldve understood the benefits, risks and costs associated  with the 
proposal. It wouldve  advised him against switching his personal  pension  from Scottish 
Widows. And I think Mr P wouldve followed the recommendation of the regulated financial 
adviser.
effecting the SIPP and investments and Mr Ps subsequent further switch to a personal 
pension plan with Royal London
Next, Ill set out how matters unfolded with the establishment  of Mr Ps SIPP and subsequent  
events, not only because this reinforces my finding that Prydis advice was unsuitable, but 
also because it informs  my approach to redress in this case.
Mr Ps SIPP  was established, and his Scottish  Widows pension plan funds were switched in 
October 2015. In November 2015  he completed the paperwork to effect the loan to his 
employers. But the transaction  didnt go ahead.
Mr Ps employer  arranged  alternative  financing for its development plans through  a bank. I 
understand this mayve  been because it took too long to secure monies  via his SIPP. As we 
know, Prydis was having difficulty persuading the pension trustees about whether the 
arrangement proposed  with Mr Ps employer was appropriate.
Prydis told us that the trustees were getting to grips  with FCA guidance issued in July 2014 
about due diligence in relation to non-standard  investments, as well as prudential  rules on 
capital holding requirements. It said its advisers didnt  know  about these developments and 
the impact on the speed of decision making  at the time it gave Mr P advice.
Ref: DRN02708949I understand that it can be difficult to keep up with regulatory change.  And in this case the 
direct effect was on pension trustees. Nevertheless,  I would expect Prydis  to have been 
aware of the requirements and anticipated  potential impacts on effecting transactions.  
Especially, as it mentioned in its final response to Mr P, it had a specialist  team familiar with 
complex pension  arrangements.
I can see that Prydis was also having  general  discussions with Curtis Banks about service 
levels around the speed with which it was turning around proposals  like those for Mr P. Part 
of the problem appears to have been  the loss of key staff on both sides.  I understand these 
operational challenges can make  it difficult to deliver the service firms want  to for their 
clients. 
Nevertheless, the challenges Prydis  faced both in terms of the regulatory  landscape  and its 
operations are not matters of concern for Mr P. He wouldve expected an effective and 
efficient service.
The other issue causing problems was procurement  of the commercial premises  itself. 
Prydis has told us it was getting almost  weekly  updates of progress on the transaction.  
These indicated the sale/purchase transaction was always on the cusp of completion. It 
said that the adviser had visited Mr Ps employer on at least two occasions between 
November 2015  and March 2016  and when shed spoken to Mr P hed always  been up to 
date with the position of the sale and purchase of the commercial premises.
This account is slightly at odds with what the adviser  told Mr P when he asked for an update  
on how his fund was doing in March  2016. At that point she effectively indicated  that by the 
middle of January 2016 Prydis had come to the view that with only a couple  of months left 
until the date of completion  it wouldnt  be worth  Mr P making the loan.
Theres clearly  a significant gap between the communication Mr P had with Prydis in 
November 2015  when he completed the necessary paperwork  to make the loan, and in 
March 2016 when he seeks an update and it formally advises him of the status of the 
transaction and problems  that had occurred. In the face of conflicting testimony, I place 
weight on the contemporaneous written  record.
Prydis says its remarkable that I considered Mr P wasnt kept informed of the position by his 
directors and close friend. It said he was always better informed than the adviser  on the 
progress of the matter.  So, it was felt unnecessary for the adviser to update him on the 
position, because  as the general manager,  he wouldve been involved in every step of the 
proposed move.
I think the approach  Prydis adopted here was a mistake. Assuming that Mr P was up to date 
with the plans his employers were  making,  is just that - an assumption.  Im sure Mr P 
wouldve been heavily  involved  in operational matters, but its not clear  how far he was 
involved in decisions in areas such as finances  and strategy.  Its arguable Prydis didnt show 
a duty of care to Mr P concerning his retirement  planning.
I think theres another problem with how Prydis was handling Mr Ps interests. Even though 
there were issues with getting the loan to his employer arranged,  there was also no 
movement on investing the balance of his funds as had been planned. 
Ref: DRN027089410Prydis says the investment wasnt made  straight  away due to the delays with the ever-
imminent completion on the purchase of the commercial property. There was uncertainty 
over the amount Mr P would eventually commit to the expansion, which was the subject of 
discussions between him and the directors of the business. The balance for investment 
therefore depended upon the amount to be loaned.
Im surprised by the lack of records here.  Ive no doubt things were fluid. There was 
inevitably interaction between employer and employee, as well as between those parties and 
different parts  of Prydis.  But I cant see what proactive  advice and interaction  was happening 
with Mr P to ensure his interests  were protected.
On 15 March 2016 Mr P responds to Prydis update about the situation with his fund and 
investments:
As you can appreciate Im somewhat disappointed that weve  been discussing my pension  
fund since October last year and for the past 5 months it hasnt been  earning anything - I 
appreciate that the returns are not generous with Scottish Widows at the moment,  but 
something is surely better than nothing.  Of course,  as there has been no wealth generation 
here I would not expect  to have incurred any costs  to date either.
Now, moving forward, due to some changes with regards to my employers position I would 
respectfully ask you not to conduct  any changes  to my pension  fund until further notice - I 
need to assess  exactly what is best for my fund given the disappointment  experienced so 
far. Please accept  this email as authority  to put on hold the current  arrangement to loan my 
pension fund to [my employers] pension fund in respect of the purchase of the [new 
premises] or any other loan deal on the table, until I have had time to discuss  the situation 
with you further.
Over the next few months Mr P received advice from a different independent financial 
adviser (IFA). And as a result, he switched his funds  into personal pension plan with 
Royal London with effect from 4 August 2016. 
Putting things  right
Im upholding Mr Ps case.  So, he needs  to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
Prydis responsible for.
If Prydis had done everything  it shouldve, I dont think  Mr P wouldve switched his 
Scottish Widows  personal pension into a SIPP with Curtis  Banks, and so he wouldnt have 
suffered the financial loss hes experienced.
Mr P wants  to be compensated for the time his funds  were out of the market. However, Im 
mindful about how events unfolded in this case.  He gave Prydis very clear  instructions in 
March 2016 not to do anything with his funds when  he found out things werent  progressing  
as hed hoped. He said hed be in contact to let it know how he wanted to proceed.
Mr P had knowledge at this point that something had gone wrong with his pension 
arrangements. So, he was responsible from that point onwards, within reason, for mitigating 
his losses. I dont think it would be fair for me to require Prydis  to compensate Mr P for the 
entire time his funds  were out of the market.
Ref: DRN027089411In my provisional decision I said Mr P shouldve  had new arrangements in place  by 30 April 
2016. Prydis thought  that if the complaint  was going  to be upheld  it should only be 
responsible for his funds being  out of the market until 15 March 2016, when Mr P notified it 
to take no further  action.
On reflection, allowing nearly seven weeks for Mr P to have his new arrangements  in place 
is a little generous.  But equally, I dont think Prydis can reasonably expect him to have had 
everything in place on the day he asked  it to halt action. He needed to secure new advice, 
put in place alternative arrangements and get his funds switched. This wouldve taken a few 
weeks.
So, I think 8 April 2016 is a fair compromise notional date by which  Mr P couldve had his 
pension arrangements sorted.
Mr P also requested compensation for £2000 in fees he said he incurred switching his 
pension from Prydis SIPP to his Royal London pension  plan.  I noted  that when he first 
approached this Service he told us hed received a payment from his former employer for 
these costs. He now accepts that he did receive  the payment and that in turn his former 
employer has been compensated  as well. 
As well as reasonably  questioning the claim by Mr P for £2000 as previously set out, Prydis  
made a wider challenge about monies it thought  he mayve received from his former 
employer for compensation related to what happened with his pension fund. I recognise  it 
wanted to expand on this matter, but the solicitor dealing  on behalf of its professional  
indemnity (PI) insurers is on furlough and so it hasnt been  able get to explore this matter as 
fully as it wanted to.
Ive thought carefully about this matter.  I issued my provisional decision over two months 
ago. And Mr Ps case is over three  years old already. I dont think its necessary and nor 
would it be fair to allow a further extension for Prydis so that its PI insurer  can set out its 
position. 
I note that while Prydis was able to provide evidence of the £2000 paid to Mr P for fees 
relating to the later switch of his pension, it wasnt able to show  other payments were also 
made by his employer  to compensate him for lost fund growth or other fees (for example, 
establishing the SIPP).
On the other hand, Mr P has obtained a letter from his former  employer which  states that he 
hasnt received any other payments in relation to what happened with his pension fund. Im 
satisfied with this evidence, which provides an unequivocal assurance. 
Of course,  if Prydis subsequently receives information to the contrary  on these matters,  it will 
be able to pursue  responsible parties to recoup costs. 
So, I now require Prydis  Wealth Limited  to put things right in the following way:
Calculate the loss Mr P has suffered as a result  of making the switch  
Prydis must obtain the notional value of Mr Ps previous personal pension  plan with 
Scottish Widows  as at 8 April 2016.  So, as if it hadnt  been switched to the Prydis SIPP.
Ref: DRN027089412If there are difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index should be used as a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that 
couldve been achieved  if Mr Ps pension had remained invested in his Scottish Widows 
pension plan.
Prydis should  then find the value  of Mr Ps SIPP as at 8 April 2016, including investments 
and any cash held.
My understanding is that Mr P didnt  take any tax-free cash  or drawdowns  from his SIPP. 
Although he may have  made additional  contributions. The value Prydis obtains or the 
calculations Prydis makes  should  assume any such adjustments would  still have occurred 
and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mr Ps 
former pension plan and the value of his SIPP will be his basic financial  loss that Prydis 
needs to redress.
Prydis should  then add 8% simple interest a year to the calculated loss from 9 April 2016 
until settlement.
Pay an amount into Mr Ps new Royal London  pension plan so that its value is increased by 
the loss (resulting from the above calculation)  or pay him an equivalent  cash  sum notionally  
adjusted for tax 
If compensation is paid into Mr Ps Royal London  pension plan, payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief,  so that he is in the same  position as if hed 
stayed in his original Scottish Widows  personal  pension plan. 
If paying compensation into Mr Ps new Royal London plan would conflict with any existing  
protection or allowance, then it should pay him compensation as a cash  sum. 
Because Mr Ps pension  plan wouldve been used to buy a taxable income any 
compensation paid in cash should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income  tax that 
would otherwise have been due. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using Mr Ps 
marginal rate of tax at retirement.
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement,  the notional  allowance  
would reduce the amount  payable (after any allowance for tax-free  cash), equivalent to the 
current basic rate of tax. So, if Mr P is entitled to 25% tax free cash  from his fund, the 
notional allowance  should  be applied to 75% of the total amount of compensation.
Trouble and upset
Prydis thinks the redress  Ive set out above is enough and that Mr P shouldnt receive a 
payment for distress and inconvenience. I disagree. The erosion of the real value of his 
pension fund wouldve  been a worry to him and has clearly had an impact.  In recognition  of 
this I award him £300 for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Ref: DRN027089413my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0270894