K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs A bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  she applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs A for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Mrs As mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it was free for the first six months and 
after that it cost £13 a month.  
At the time,  Mrs A was employed as an operations administrator. She has told us she was 
entitled to full sick pay from her employer  and she would have received pay in the event of 
redundancy. By a letter sent at the time of Mrs As application for her mortgage her 
employers confirmed Mrs A would receive the first 10 days  at full salary and any time in 
excess of that would be paid at the discretion of the management on individual 
circumstances. Mrs A also told us she had £5,000 savings which she could have used in the 
event of being unable to work through an accident  or sickness.  She explained these savings 
were easily accessible and not earmarked for any purpose. Mrs A has said she was in good 
health. 
B&B has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 1998. 
Mrs As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs As representative says:
 
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs As 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Mrs A about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs A and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN03730172The information Mrs A received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs As case.  
 
Ref: DRN03730173Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave  Mrs A sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs A suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs A and B&B, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs A know she had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
B&B has been able to provide a copy of the completed mortgage application form from the 
time, which included  a section about  PPI. Part of the form is headed Insurance Details 
below which there  is a section headed Payment Protection Insurance  for Injury,  Illness and 
Unemployment. Next to the question Do you wish to take advantage of the security  and 
reassurance offered by the Societys  Payment  Protection cover.  the box has been 
completed with Yes.  This box could have been  left blank if Mrs A hadnt wanted the cover. I 
Ref: DRN03730174can also see the appropriate insurance  required has also been  selected with a tick to show 
Mrs A wanted cover  for injury, illness and unemployment, not injury and illness only,  which 
was another option given on the form. And the amount of cover has also been  chosen as 
£200. Mrs A has signed and dated the form. As she was taking on a new financial 
commitment, I think its more likely she read the form before signing it and understood she 
was taking out the PPI. 
The mortgage offer, albeit  sent after Mrs A opted  to take PPI, sets out the offer of payment 
protection and confirms  that B&B would pay the first six months of the cover.  The offer 
states; After such period  payment of the premiums  is the responsibility of the insured 
person. The monthly  payment protection premium  will be £13.50 and your Total Monthly 
Payment will be altered  to include this. Attention is drawn to the summary of cover which you 
should read carefully to ensure it meets with requirements. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs A knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
Mrs A says she took out the PPI at a meeting but hasnt said whether she was given advice 
or not. B&B says advice  wasnt provided  during this sale. 
Looking at what happened when B&B sold Mrs A the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice. Mrs A had to answer  various  questions on the application form, but theres  nothing  
on it which makes  me think advice was given  by a representative.
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs A. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs A was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs A was unable 
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs A would have  taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mrs A agreed 
to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think B&B gave Mrs A sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN03730175In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs As representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs As representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs A has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that B&B ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mrs A? To what extent did Mrs A suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs A. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs A would have still 
taken out the policy,  had B&B done  things properly. 
Mrs A says she would  not have  taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs A had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs A chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs A thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs A has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mrs A was given about the benefit was clear. Mrs A had selected this on the 
application form. But the information  about  other  aspects of the policy, such as the cost and 
the limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs A knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told her the exact premium at the point she applied for 
Ref: DRN03730176the policy after the six months free period had expired. Having said that, it seems likely 
Mrs A would have been told the cost before the policy started   this was set out in the 
mortgage offer and after the period of free cover had expired she paid for the policy  for a 
while, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with her expectations at the point of sale,  its 
possible she might  have  raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered  her decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mrs A would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs A thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
With some exceptions, the policy excluded claims  relating to medical conditions or 
any underlying  or directly  attributable  medical condition for which  Mrs A received any 
medical treatment or medical advice or of which Mrs A was aware  or ought 
reasonably to have  been aware during the last two years before the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs A 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs A be unable  to 
attend to her usual  gainful employment  or any other gainful employment for which 
she was fitted by knowledge and training.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs A pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs A from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs As circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Mrs A was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mrs A 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs A didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs A would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs A had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to attend  to 
her usual gainful employment or any other gainful  employment for which  she was fitted  by 
knowledge and training , it might have played  into her thinking about  what  she would do. And 
I accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
Ref: DRN03730177been overly concerned given that if Mrs A was unable (through  disability)  to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up other gainful employment for 
which she was fitted by knowledge and training would also, in all probability, be limited.
B&B may not have  told Mrs A that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs A was guaranteed to have received full sick pay for, 
and her statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income. 
Any savings she had could  have been left intact or used for other important expenses which 
she might  have needed if she lost her job or couldnt  work for a lengthy  period of time.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs A would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs A be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs A would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if Mrs A was made redundant, or unable to work through accident or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs A would have  taken 
out the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs A would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs A 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN03730178Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs A in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Mrs A compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs A thinks B&B misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mrs A, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find B&B negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs A and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that B&B had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs A in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 December  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0373017