K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr Ms representative,  their daughter Ms S, complains  on their behalf  about a unit-
linked reviewable  whole  of life policy administered by Old Mutual Wealth  Life Assurance 
Limited (the business).    
Ms S says they were told that the policy would grow  to a value of £5,000 to fund two 
funerals. But because it hasnt she feels the policy was mis-sold.  
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The policy was set up as a protection policy with a £3,468  sum assured for a £20 
monthly premium.
There was never  any suggestion from the business that itd grow to £5,000  let alone 
pay for two funerals.  
At best itd cover one funeral plan, but only if the increased premiums were continued 
to be paid to maintain  the sum assured.
Over  the years the policy increased  to £35.53 a month. But this was only enough  to 
keep it in force for 13 years, as shown in the original 2004  Illustration document.  
The business was quite right to point  out that:
oAny complaint  about the mis-sale  should be directed towards  the third party 
business responsible for the sale of the policy and not the insurer.   
oThe business is only responsible for administering  the policy and theres  
nothing to suggest that it was done  incorrectly. 
oAlthough Mrs and Mr M rang the business  about  cancelling the policy  in May 
2018, the forms werent returned until October 2018, by which  time the 
surrender value had reduced to around  £25. Despite what  Ms S says its not 
satisfied the surrender  forms  were sent before October 2018. 
oPhone calls made in June 2018 made clear that the direct  debit payments 
had been cancelled. So the policy wouldve continued until the fund ran out 
and was unable  to pay for the life cover. And thats why theres only £29.98 in 
the surrender  value.   
Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators view.  In summary, she said:
Mrs and Mr M are now left without any insurance, having paid over £7,000 in 
premiums over the years.  
Shes always made clear that Mrs and Mr M were mis-sold the policy,  so our service  
couldve made clear that she needed to complain  about  the seller.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, Im not 
satisfied that the reviewable whole of life policy  was administered  incorrectly. I also dont  
think the business is responsible for the sale of the policy, and Ive seen no evidence that 
Ref: DRN00394072Mrs and Mr M were  told by the business that the policy would grow to £5,000  in value, 
enough to fund two funerals.   
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs and Mrs Ms strength of feeling about this matter. 
Ms S has provided submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings  focus  on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Ms S and the business, and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mrs and Mr M are complaining about is 
known as a reviewable whole of life insurance. An explanation  of how it works  may go 
some way to allay some  of their concerns about the policy. Its not set up for a specific  term, 
or with a specific premium, but is instead designed  to pay out on death whenever it occurs.  
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
Some businesses provide illustrations, which can only give an indication of what the cost of 
premiums are likely  to be, they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of or increased cost of 
the premiums as is the case  here.    
In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is used to 
pay for the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. 
The cost of the cover is also not fixed and actually increases with age. This doesnt  mean  
the policy is age discriminatory it just takes account of the higher risk the insurer will have 
resulting from customers increased age and the greater likelihood of a claim.  In this case 
the hope is that the investment element will grow enough  to fund the shortfall  when the 
policy reaches the point  that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium.  But again 
there are no guarantees. This also broadly  explains why the fund value would just continue  
to diminish, if Mrs and Mr M stopped paying the premiums.
Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. But at each  review, the insurer also needs to make new assumptions about 
the cost of cover and investment performance in the future. Thats why its virtually 
impossible to predict future premium increases and percentages. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review,  usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed  usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. This broadly explains why Mrs and Mr Ms premiums have increased over time to 
Ref: DRN00394073maintain the sum assured. I dont think the business  has done anything  wrong  in the way 
that it has administered  this. 
The business isnt responsible for the sale of the policy so even if it was found  that the policy 
was mis-sold  in this instance Im unable to say whether it was (or wasnt)   Im unable to 
conclude that the business is in any way responsible. 
So far as the business  responsibilities  are concerned,  on balance Im satisfied it provided 
documentation that was clear, fair and not misleading. In other words it made reasonably 
clear the nature and operation of the whole of life policy.  So  Im satisfied the policy  allowed 
the business to do what it was doing and that it didnt  mislead  Mrs and Mr M about how it 
would work.  Despite what Ms S says, Ive seen nothing  to suggest they were told by the 
business that the policy would grow to £5,000.  
Im mindful of the points made about  the surrender  of the policy and when the surrender  
form was sent and received by the business.  Despite what  Ms S says Ive seen  no evidence 
that persuades  me that the form was returned  by Mr and Mrs M before October 2018 which  
is when the business received it. 
On balance Im also satisfied that Mrs and Mr M were told  during phone calls in June 2018 
 that once the direct debit payments were cancelled the policy  would continue until the fund 
had run out and was unable to keep the policy going. I think  its unlikely they were given any 
assurances that the surrender value  wouldnt change once they stopped  paying  the 
premiums.    
Its possible that Mrs and Mr M decided  having stopped  paying  the premiums   that theyd 
allow the policy to continue providing cover, until there was no real value left in the fund or 
until they were ready to surrender it. Either way they were  never  going  to get back  anywhere  
near what theyd paid in premiums  over the years. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr M will be disappointed  Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded the business has done anything  wrong  in the 
way that it has administered the policy. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs and 
Mr M what they want.
Ref: DRN00394074my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0039407