K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained that when they took out an over 50s plan each with the Post 
Office Management  Services  Limited  (Post  Office)  it didnt provide them  with the gift cards 
they feel were part of the offer.
background
Mr and Mrs E applied  for the plans on 23 April 2018. They did this after seeing an 
advertisement on the television  a few weeks before. This basically said if a customer bought  
an over 50s life plan they would  also be sent a £50 gift card for a specific retailer. However,  
after three months Mr and Mrs E hadnt  received the gift cards so they queried this with the 
Post Office.  They were  told that they hadnt entered a valid code which would have 
generated the gift cards. 
Mr and Mrs E have  stated that the online application  didnt request any codes during the 
application process.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it should be 
upheld. She felt the Post Office provided  different reasons  to Mr and Mrs E and to this 
Service as to why the gift cards werent authorised so she felt the information  from the Post 
office was unclear. She also felt that an offer was still in place where the gift cards were  
used as an incentive. So because of the ambiguous nature of the information she felt Mr and 
Mrs E had been led by the advertising that they would be receiving the gift cards and that 
any potential exclusions were not made  clear to them.
The Post Office didnt  agree with the assessment and remained  of the view that Mr and Mrs 
E were not eligible  for the gift cards.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  it should be 
upheld.
Very little information has been provided by the Post Office despite a number of requests as 
well as requests for conversations.  And any information that has been provided  has been 
contradictory at times and overall  is very unclear.
However, given what  I have seen I am satisfied Mr and Mrs E were  incentivised to buy the 
life plans. The advertisement mentioned  the gift cards and they have said when they went 
onto the website to apply  for the policies the gift cards were again  also mentioned. I have no 
reason to doubt this. Having looked at the website  myself in the process  of making  this 
decision, I can see there is currently a similar  offer available  offering gift cards for the same  
retailer. Therefore I think its likely Mr and Mrs E would have seen something similar when 
they made their applications. So its not unreasonable  they thought the offer that attracted 
them on the television was still in place when they applied  online.
I know the Post Office  has said a different offer was in place when Mr and Mrs E made their 
application but the fact is an offer was still in place. I dont know how clear  the terms of this 
Ref: DRN09421262offer were. Because  of the length  of time that has passed I cant  see this for myself, and the 
Post Office  hasnt provided me with the information  I require.  But For Mr and Mrs E to have 
quoted the details of it so accurately it would strike me they would have seen the offer at a 
time fairly close to the point they made  their application.
I am also concerned  with the contradictory  information that has been provided.  The post 
office told Mr and Mrs E that the reason why they werent eligible for the gift cards  was 
because they had entered the invalid promotion  codes. But in the final response  letter  the 
Post Office  said the reason  was because the offer in April 2018 wasnt advertised and only 
customers who were sent the invitation were eligible. It also said this offer wasnt  promoted 
online and at no point  were Mr and Mrs E eligible. It said they were never sent the relevant 
promotional codes and the code required wouldnt have been available  to all customers. 
I appreciate what the Post Office  has said but I still dont feel accurate information has been 
provided to answer  conclusively why Mr and Mrs E were not provided with the gift cards.  
And as I have already said I think Mr and Mrs E would have seen an offer in place when they 
started to make  their application online so its reasonable they thought  they were eligible for 
the gift cards.
As the Post Office  cant provide a valid explanation as to what  happened,  I cant be sure of 
the events or offers at the point in question.  But what Im satisfied with is that Mr and Mrs E 
were incentivised and similar offers have been, and still are, available on Post Offices 
website.
Overall Post office hasnt provided  enough  information to confirm  Mr and Mrs E didnt see 
and make the application correctly to receive the gift cards  so I cant safely  conclude that 
Post Office  shouldnt honour the promotional  offer for the policies. I think  Mr and Mrs E were 
clearly incentivised. And I am not convinced the offer had expired nor am Im convinced  Mr 
and Mrs E did anything wrong  during their application  that caused  them  to not be entitled to 
the gift cards.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To settle  the complaint Post Office  Management  Service Limited must provide the gift cards 
for the specific retailer to Mr and Mrs E for the value of £50 each, as they were expecting.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0942126