K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the charge thats been made  by ALD Automotive Limited, trading as 
Kia Contract Hire, for a missing service book when  he returned a car at the end of his hire 
agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr W under a hire agreement with Kia Contract Hire that he 
signed in March 2015. Kia Contract  Hire arranged  for a third party  to inspect the car and 
collect it from him when the agreement  ended in March 2018. The service book wasnt  
returned with the car so Kia Contract Hire charged him £350.  
He complained to it about the charge. It said that it was the customers  responsibility  to 
ensure that all documents were returned with the car and that it had contacted  him three  
times to remind him of the need  to return the service book.  It also said that the car was sold 
at auction before Mr W provided evidence that the car had been serviced. He wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She concluded that 
Mr W was made aware of the need  to return the service book and, although the inspector 
may have  left before he could hand it over, she was satisfied  that he had sufficient time to 
return it to Kia Contract Hire before the car was sold.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that it's not his fault that the inspector left without the service  book, he doesn't  
think he should have  been responsible for sending it in and Kia Contract Hire should have 
sent a courier  or similar to collect the service book from him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Mr W didnt  return  the service book with the car 
when it was collected from him at the end of his hire agreement in March 2018. Hed signed 
the hire agreement in March 2015  which said:
On or prior to the termination or expiry of this Agreement,  the Customer  should 
deliver the Vehicle together with all documents accessories and certificates at its own 
expense to an address  in the United Kingdom  specified by Kia Contract  Hire.
Kia Contract Hire sent him letters in September 2017 and February 2018 about  the end of 
his agreement which reminded  him that he would:   need  to make sure that the completed 
service book is returned with the vehicle.  It also sent him an e-mail in February  2018  about 
the collection which said that he should  ensure that the cars full service  history was present  
when the car was collected.
The inspection report, which  was signed by Mr W when the car was collected from him, 
identified that the service  book hadnt  been  returned by Mr W. Mr W says that the inspector 
left without the service  book but I consider that it was Mr Ws responsibility  to ensure that the 
service book was returned with the car  and he didnt do so.
Ref: DRN01818882He then didnt  return the service  book to Kia Contact  Hire and the car was sold at auction in 
May 2018. It says that Mr W provided it with written  evidence in June 2018  that the services 
had been completed but the car had been sold by then. As it was Mr Ws responsibility to 
ensure that the service book was returned  with the car, Im not persuaded that there was any 
requirement for Kia Contract Hire to arrange for the service book to be collected from him. 
I consider that the missing service  book is likely  to have  affected the value of the car when it 
was sold at auction. I understand that £350  is Kia Contact Hires standard charge for a 
missing service book and Im not persuaded that a charge of £350 for the missing service 
book is unfair or unreasonable  in these circumstances. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Kia Contact Hire to waive that charge or to take any other 
action in response to Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0181888