K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont increase the credit  limit on her credit  card due to her 
source of income.
background
Ms L has held a credit card with Lloyds for a number of years.  And in April 2019  she asked 
Lloyds if her credit limit could  be increased by £200.  Lloyds  said this wasnt  possible 
because she received disability benefits. Ms L was unhappy  with this response,  so she 
called Lloyds to discuss it.
Lloyds adviser explained  to Ms L that she would need to provide her income and 
expenditure. She would  also need  a credit check before Lloyds could  confirm  if her credit 
limit could be increased. Ms L didnt want to do this and complained to Lloyds. She felt they 
were discriminating  against  her due to her disability.
Lloyds looked  into Ms Ls concerns and issued  their final response in May 2019.  In this they 
explained her credit limit increase was declined because  her income was based on benefits. 
They also said their offer for Ms L to speak with their special lending department still stood. 
This department would gather Ms Ls income  and expenditure  details,  and carry out a credit  
check.
Ms L remained unhappy with Lloyds, so she came to our service.  When she contacted  us, 
she explained shed  asked for the credit limit increase because  her disability was making it 
harder to leave  home.  She was becoming more reliant on online shopping, meaning she had 
less opportunity to pay for items with cash.  Ms L said she felt Lloyds actions were unlawful 
under the Equality Act 2010.  She was also unhappy  because Lloyds had previously 
increased her credit  limit without asking. However, she asked them  to reduce it. So she 
didnt understand  why she had to provide information for a lower credit  limit  when her 
financial circumstances hadnt changed. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Ls concerns. But he didnt think  her complaint should  be 
upheld. He explained that Lloyds had a duty to make sure an increased credit limit was 
affordable. So he didnt think Lloyds acted unfairly  when it asked to go through Ms Ls 
income and expenditure before confirming if her credit limit could be increased.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ls 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to her. But Ill explain my reasons 
below.
I first want to explain that our service  doesnt  have the powers to say whether  Lloyds  has 
acted in line with the obligations  set under the Equality Act 2010. That would be a matter for 
the Courts to decide. However, what I have looked into is whether Lloyds has treated Ms L 
fairly. And to do that, I would need  to consider whether other customers in Ms L 
circumstances would  be treated the same.
Ref: DRN00044222When considering  credit limit increases, there are a number of factors  Lloyds  will consider. 
This includes, but isnt limited to a customers source(s)  of income. Lloyds  has sent us a list 
of the incomes  that require fewer checks before increasing a persons credit limit. And the 
benefits Ms L receives isnt included. However,  I want to assure  Ms L that there are other 
types of benefits  payments on this list. And that includes a type of benefit for people who 
have a disability.  So, this information  has persuaded me that Lloyds didnt base  their 
decision on the fact Ms L has a disability.
While Ms Ls source of income isnt included on the list mentioned above, Lloyds have still 
said theyre prepared  to consider her credit limit request. And for them  to do that, theyve 
offered for Ms L to provide her income and expenditure. They  also said theyd need  to carry 
out a credit check.
Ms L has asked to borrow more money  from Lloyds. And before a bank  provides  lending, or 
additional lending,  our service would expect  them to ensure the borrowing was affordable  for 
their customer. Lloyds asking Ms L for her income  and expenditure is a way for them to 
make sure the additional £200 is affordable for her. Ive taken on board what  Ms L has said 
about the way she manages her finances,  and I dont dispute  thats  the case. However, I 
dont consider its unreasonable for Lloyds to make  sure the additional limit on the credit  card 
wont cause Ms L financial difficulties. And the same goes for the credit check. This would 
allow Lloyds to understand how Ms L manages  her accounts. This is also something Lloyds 
would want to make sure is in order before it allows Ms L to take on more debt.
I know this has been frustrating for Ms L. And Ive noted what shes  said about being offered 
a higher credit limit increase in the past.  However,  Lloyds has sent us information to show 
the last credit limit increase was offered  around 10 years ago. I cant  ignore the fact peoples  
circumstances can change over that timeframe   and so does the way banks consider 
requests for borrowing. So Im not persuaded Ms L being offered a higher limit in the past 
means Lloyds has acted unfairly  now.
Lloyds has said their offer to consider  the credit limit increase still stands. And if Ms L still 
wants this, she can speak  with their special lending department  and provide the information 
theyve asked for. I consider this is fair in the circumstances,  so I wont be asking Lloyds to 
do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019. 
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0004422