K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about advice he received from Brittanic Assurance Plc, now Phoenix Life 
Limited (Phoenix Life), to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme 
(SERPS) and set up a personal  pension instead.
background
In 1988, Phoenix  Life advised Mr E to contract  out of SERPS  and take out a personal 
pension plan with it, which would be funded  by national insurance rebates.  
In 2019, Mr E complained to Phoenix  Life that the advice was unsuitable. He says hes lost 
out as he was led to believe hed be better off if he contracted out. 
In response, Phoenix Life said the advice  to contract out was suitable at the time given 
Mr Es age, earnings and number of years to retirement.  
Unhappy with this, Mr E brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators  
reviewed the complaint  and said it was reasonable for Phoenix Life to have taken  the view 
that contracting out was in Mr Es best interests. This is because he met the criteria for this 
to be considered beneficial, when also considering the assumptions at the time about likely  
investment returns.  
Mr E didnt agree. He says he recognises  Phoenix  Life wouldnt have known about future 
changes in interest rates, but he was certainly  given the impression it was the right way 
forward and that he would  benefit financially, otherwise he wouldnt  have  gone  ahead.  And 
that a clause shouldve been  added to the documentation  advising returns could go up or 
down. 
The complaints been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why. 
At the time Mr E was given the advice by Phoenix  Life, the government had decided  to allow  
individuals to contract out of SERPS,  offering incentives encouraging them  to do so. But, it 
didnt give any guidance about who contracting out would  be beneficial  for. So pension  
providers made comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS with those from a 
personal pension.  
Such calculations  were based  on what  were felt to be conservative  assumptions of likely 
future investment returns at the time. And, when making the comparison, age and earnings 
were considered the two key criteria. 
The Government paid national insurance  rebates in such a way that it was more  attractive  to 
contract out of SERPS at a younger  age. And, given that the younger  someone is the longer 
they have until retirement,  theres  a greater chance that a personal pension  could perform 
well enough to provide greater benefits  than SERPS at retirement.  The age at which the 
providers advice changed on whether an applicant should contract out or not is called the 
Ref: DRN07745232pivotal age  being the maximum age below which an applicant might  expect to be better 
off by doing so. 
Some providers also set a minimum earnings limit, used  to determine whether an applicants 
national insurance  contributions paid from their earnings would be enough for them to 
benefit from contracting out. 
While advisers  werent required at the time to gather detailed  information about a customers 
personal and financial  circumstances before providing the advice, I can see Phoenix Life did 
establish Mr Es age, selected retirement age, occupation and level of earnings.  Which, in 
my view, was enough to consider whether he would potentially benefit from contacting out.
As Mr E was coming up to 41 years old when  he contracted out, he was below Phoenix 
Lifes pivotal age of 44, with more  than 20 years until his expected  retirement. And, while  
Phoenix Life doesnt seem to have set its own minimum earnings  level,  at £8,000  Mr Es 
earnings were in excess of the lower earnings limit of £2,132 that national insurance 
contributions were payable on at the time. So I think its fair to say his age and earnings met 
the key criteria for national insurance rebates to be considered sufficient to justify him 
contracting out.
Ive also thought about whether Mr E couldve joined  his employers occupational pension  
scheme as an alternative to contracting out. But I can see he wasnt eligible to do so at the 
time of the sale.  Mr E has said that Phoenix  Life assured him that contracting out was in his 
best interest rather than letting him know the return could  go up or down. I dont know 
exactly what was discussed.  And Im mindful that the sale happened more  than 30 years ago 
so Mr Es recollections of what  he was, or wasnt told, may have faded with time. So, Ive 
considered the Coming  out of SERPS leaflet that Phoenix says was provided to Mr E at the 
time of the sale. 
I can see that this says that many people will almost certainly be better off by contracting  
out. That was the general  understanding at that time. The Government were  making  
changes to SERPS so it was offering  incentive  payments in addition to the rebate. It was 
envisaged that these rebates and the incentive  payments  would be invested and grow to 
produce a pension in excess of what would  be received had the individual  remained 
contracted in to SERPS. 
Im conscious that the leaflet doesnt  guarantee that all individuals  contracting  out will be 
better off.  And I think by explaining that funds can growth at different rates  and providing 
examples of what you might get at different growth  rates, suggests that the returns are 
dependent on investment performance. So arent  guaranteed.  
We find ourselves in a very different economic climate to that of the 1980s. Investment  
returns are much lower than had been  anticipated.  So many of the individuals that 
contracted out find that theyve suffered a loss, relative to the position they wouldve been in 
had they remained  in SERPS. But the fact that a policy hasnt performed as expected 
doesnt necessarily  mean  it was unsuitable at that time of advice. And we cant  use hindsight 
when reviewing complaints  we have to consider what  was known and anticipated  at the 
time the policy was sold.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr E but for the reasons Ive explained above, the advice he received 
to contract  out wasnt unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN07745233my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2020.  
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0774523