K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) has refused to pay her the 
incentive offered  for switching her account.
background
Mrs G went into a Nationwide branch to set up an account for her daughter. During  this 
meeting she was told about  the Recommend a Friend (RAF) scheme. Under  this scheme if 
Mrs G transferred her account  to Nationwide, including  at least  two direct debits, she (and 
the person who referred her) would receive £100.
At the time Mrs G says she was unsure whether she did have enough direct debits and she 
told Nationwides staff member about the two regular payments she had coming out of her 
account. She says the staff member  confirmed these  were direct debits and she would be 
eligible to receive  the incentive if these were transferred  during  the switch.  Mrs G therefore 
arranged to switch  her account  from her existing provider. 
Following the switch taking place, Mrs G contacted Nationwide as she hadnt  received the 
£100 incentive payment. Nationwide told her she wasnt entitled to the money as she didnt 
have two direct debits set up on her account  - only one of the payments from her account 
was a direct  debit. Mrs G complained to Nationwide saying the staff member had given her 
incorrect information which led her to switch her accounts and so she felt she should receive 
the incentive payment.
Nationwide didnt agree  that it had done  anything  wrong. It said the criteria had been 
explained to Mrs G and she had told the staff member she had two direct debits. Nationwide 
said it wouldnt have been able to check what those payments were and it was Mrs Gs 
responsibility to know  what  direct debits she had set up. It also said that, during a 
conversation held via a video link between  Mrs G and another member of staff to arrange 
the switch, Mrs G confirmed she did have the qualifying two direct debits transferring over.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the terms of the incentive scheme 
clearly state that two direct debits have to transfer  in order to qualify. And she said the onus 
was on Mrs G to provide Nationwide with the correct information about the direct debits. She 
explained Nationwide wouldnt  have  been  able to confirm whether the payments were direct  
debits until the transfer had been made  as it didnt have access  to her accounts  via a 
different provider. 
Mrs G disagreed with the investigators view and so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It doesnt appear that Mrs G is disputing  the terms of the RAF incentive scheme that 
Nationwide was offering  in that she had to transfer two direct  debits  with her existing 
account in order  to receive the payment. But for completeness I do think  that the 
requirements of the scheme were clearly  explained   so Mrs G did know what criteria  she 
had to meet in order to get the £100. Her main complaint  point relates to the information she 
Ref: DRN07135782says she was given  by the staff member in the branch when she was first informed of the 
scheme. 
As this discussion took place during  a meeting  in a branch there  is no recording of what  was 
discussed. Mrs G has given us a very detailed account of what  she says happened in the 
branch, including the name of the individual she spoke to. But Nationwide  says this was not 
the name of the person Mrs G spoke to. When we asked Mrs G about this she said she must 
have been mistaken  - which  is understandable as memories can fade over time.  But with this 
in mind I need to consider what I think is more likely to have happened  based on the 
available evidence. 
Nationwide told us it has spoken to the actual staff member involved who recalled telling 
Mrs G about the scheme and the eligibility  requirements. The staff member said Mrs G told 
her she had the required two direct  debits and confirmed which  ones they were. But Mrs G 
says it was Nationwide who told her these two payments from her accounts would be direct 
debits. 
Banks and building societies will only hold information about  the accounts  held by their own 
customers - so Nationwide wouldnt have been  able to tell Mrs G with any certainty what 
type of payments were coming out of her account. Only Mrs G, or her existing provider, 
would have been able to confirm if she did have the required  two direct debits set up. So I 
dont think its likely  Nationwide would have told Mrs G she would be entitled to receive the 
incentive if she had been unsure about  the type of debits leaving her account.  
Mrs G says she was perfectly happy with her existing bank and she only agreed to switch 
providers due to the incentive being  offered. Having listened to the recording of the video call 
Mrs G had in the branch,  it does suggest that Mrs G was also taking advantage of a higher 
interest rate being offered on the savings  account she was opening for her daughter. So the 
RAF incentive does  not appear to have been  the only reason for making the changes to her 
banking arrangements. But even if that wasnt the case, Mrs G knew the incentive would 
only be paid if she met the eligibility criteria - so if she did have any doubts about the 
payments, I think she would have checked with her own provider before agreeing to the 
switch. I therefore think  its more likely Mrs G mistakenly believed she was eligible. 
So overall, based on everything  Ive seen and been  told, I dont think  Nationwide  has acted 
unfairly in refusing to make the incentive payment. 
Ref: DRN07135783my final decision
For the reasons  detailed  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0713578