K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Temple Finance Limited  (Temple) hasnt phoned him to discuss  his 
accounts despite a number of requests to do so.
background
Mr K has a loan with Temple which is currently in arears  with no repayments  made  since  
April 2018. He says he wanted to get his account  back on track and so he tried to discuss 
this with Temple on a number of occasions.  He says he left messages to be called back  but, 
despite assurances, no-one rang him. 
Eventually as he was unhappy  with progress, Mr K complained to Temple  but he says it 
didnt respond.  So Mr K brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said, in summary, Temples internal notes showed it had made a number of 
attempts to get hold of Mr K by phone but these had all been  unsuccessful.  She concluded 
that Temple had been doing  its best to speak  to Mr K to sort things out and because of this 
she decided it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr K wasnt  happy with this and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. I know Mr K will be disappointed 
with this so Ill explain  my reasoning.
I should start by saying  that as Mr Ks loan is approximately £900 in arrears with no 
repayments since April 2018, I think its more likely than not that Temple would be keen  to 
talk to him to discuss how he plans  to repay  the loan. I dont believe there would be any 
advantage to Temple in avoiding contact  with Mr K. 
Temple has provided copies of its contact notes for Mr Ks account.  Our investigator detailed 
a number of Temples  attempts to speak to him when she explained her view on Mr Ks 
complaint. I dont propose to repeat those here but, in summary, Im satisfied that Temple 
has made multiple attempts to speak to him on the phone. These  attempts have both been 
in response to Mr K contacting it and as part of Temples debt management process.
I know Mr K says hes not seen any missed  calls or attempted  contact from Temple.  Im not 
able to explain why this is  and its not my role to. Our investigator confirmed with Mr K that 
Temple had been  using the correct  phone number so there doesnt seem  to be a problem 
with that. But I am conscious that Mr Ks told us that hes had problems with a faulty phone 
and has had to change it. Hes also said hes blocked various phone numbers which would  
preclude certain callers  from making contact with him. I acknowledge he says Temple  isnt 
on this list but its clear from Temples notes that it was in the past.
From Temples evidence,  in addition to phone calls,  its also attempted  contact by sending 
Mr K various texts  and has paid a number of visits to his house and left calling cards when 
there was no-one  in.  
Ref: DRN05241342Overall, Im satisfied that Temple  has made multiple attempts to speak to Mr K to discuss his 
accounts and has also attempted  contact by text message and home visit so Im not going to 
ask it to do any more.
Mr K may wish to phone Temple to discuss his accounts rather  than asking it to phone him. 
It has a dedicated  phone  number thats  free to call for people experiencing difficulties 
repaying loans.  Its operators  are trained  to help people in these circumstances. Ive 
arranged for our investigator to provide this number to Mr K.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0524134