K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Miss K says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss Ks credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional features. It 
briefly explained  what the policy was for, and it offered  the option to buy the policy or to 
turn it down. The option to buy PPI was marked, the option to turn it down was left blank, 
and Miss K signed her application  to confirm her choices. If Miss K felt she didnt 
understand the application, there were staff present, or she couldve brought  someone 
with her to help, or taken the form away  to get it translated. I think  the application was 
clear about what it was asking, and Im afraid  Miss K did have a responsibility to make 
sure shed  read and understood what she was signing. Overall,  I think that Barclays made  
it clear Miss K didnt  have to take out PPI, and that she chose to take it  though  I can 
understand why she might not remember doing  so anymore after so many years.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss K, so it had to check  that the policy was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example, it looks like Miss K was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.  She doesnt seem  to have had any other significant 
work benefits or insurance in place in case she was off sick or lost her job. Miss K may 
have had some savings, though it sounds like these would not have  lasted long if needed 
to cover her income. I also understand Miss Ks family may have  been  happy to help, but 
this card was in her sole name,  and I dont think it wouldve been  appropriate  for Barclays  
to recommend that she relies  on other people to pay it. And the PPI meant Miss K 
wouldnt have to ask her family to pay her credit  card. So it looks like the policy couldve 
been useful for her in her circumstances.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to 
have changed  her mind.  Here, it looks like Miss K chose  to take out the policy,  which 
implies she wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI, and it would have been useful for 
Miss K in case something went wrong.  And so I dont think better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K.
But Barclays  has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss K because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium), but it didnt  tell Miss K about  that at the time.
Ref: DRN09824002 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Barclays has provided a copy of the cheque it sent to Miss K in April 2019, to show that it 
paid the funds.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has agreed to pay back to Miss K any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I dont award any further 
compensation on top of what it has already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0982400