K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Amtrust Europe Limited when  he made a 
claim for a damaged tablet computer under his mobile and gadget insurance policy.
My references to Amtrust include its agents.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended to uphold it. I include here an extract  from my decision:
In August 2018 Mr G told Amtrust  that hed damaged his tablet computer. Amtrust accepted 
his claim and replaced the tablet. 
Mr G told Amtrust that the first replacement tablet wasnt  suitable,  because it was scratched 
and the keyboard  didnt  fit properly. Amtrust  arranged to collect the tablet. Mr G said the 
collection was rearranged several times,  which caused him inconvenience.
Amtrust sent Mr G a second tablet computer in early  October  2018.  But he said the tablet 
wouldnt hold a battery charge. Amtrust arranged for some diagnostics  but ultimately said it 
couldnt detect  a fault. In November 2018 Mr G contacted the tablets manufacturer,  which 
accepted there was a fault and replaced the tablet. 
Throughout the claim process Mr G told Amtrust about the inconvenience  hed been caused 
both in reporting the issues, arranging  to return the tablets and in not having a working tablet 
for over three months. Amtrust said it had tried to resolve all the problems, but offered Mr G 
a £25 voucher  for the inconvenience. He came to us.
Our adjudicator thought Amtrust had made a reasonable  offer.  Mr G didnt agree, so the 
complaints been  referred  to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I think Amtrust  should pay Mr G compensation for inconvenience,  and Ill explain why.
Under the policy Amtrust  is entitled  to supply  Mr G with a new or replacement tablet. Mr G 
was entitled to expect a tablet which was of reasonable quality and that worked properly. His 
policy didnt give new-for-old cover  but Amtrust should have given him a like-for-like 
working replacement  tablet.
Ive reviewed all the email exchanges  between Mr G and Amtrust. I dont think  its in dispute 
that both the replacement  tablets it supplied were faulty. 
I accept that Amtrust tried to resolve the problems directly with Mr G. But the fact remains  
that it failed to give him a suitable  replacement and he was without  a properly working  tablet 
for over three months. He also had the inconvenience of the tablets being collected and 
returned, and then ongoing correspondence with Amtrust about the faults.  
Ref: DRN06710182I think Mr G experienced real inconvenience and frustration.  He had to wait at home for 
collections and deliveries  of the tablets, beyond  that hed expect just to deal with the initial 
claim. He was told there was no fault with the second tablet when, in fact, there  was and it 
was replaced by the manufacturer as a result. 
I dont think the offer of a £25 voucher was sufficient compensation. Given  the amount of 
time before Mr G had a working tablet,  and the associated inconvenience, I assess  a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation is £150  compensation  in total (to be paid to him 
directly, not in vouchers).  This is instead of the £25 voucher and not in addition to that.
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision. We sent Mr G a reminder but hes not responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any additional submissions, so I see no reason to depart from the findings 
that I reached in my provisional  decision.  For the reasons  set out in my provisional decision 
I uphold this complaint,  and I require Amtrust  to take the steps  below to resolve  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to 
pay Mr G a total of £150 compensation for inconvenience, as its now agreed to do.
Amtrust must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0671018