K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint concerns their Phoenix Life Limited  convertible  term assurance.  
Theyre unhappy with the cost of using the policys conversion option to change  to whole of 
life cover.   
 
background
Mr and Mrs P took out the policy in 1994.  It provided life cover  of £100,000 over a term of 25 
years for monthly premiums of just over £31 per month. The policy had an option to convert  
at the end of the term to either another term policy or a whole of life policy, without the need  
for any medical underwriting.  
In 2018, with the end of the original term approaching, Mr P sought  a selection quotes  for 
conversion options from Phoenix  Life. These took many months to be provided and the 
process involved a number of calls to Phoenix Life during which  Mr P was given incorrect 
information, such as that hed need to provide health information before taking out a new 
policy. 
When the quotes were  provided Mr P found that his preferred option   for the policy  to be 
converted to a whole  of life policy proving joint life cover of £100,000  was going to be in 
excess of £300  per month. He felt this was excessive  and that he was therefore being  put in 
an unfair position by Phoenix Life. He said his financial adviser was able to obtain  a quote 
from an alternative provider for around £180  per month. 
He complained to Phoenix Life. It acknowledged  that it had handled the process  of providing 
conversion quotes badly and it offered Mr P £150  compensation  for this. But it felt the quotes 
were reasonable and said it wasnt able to comment on quotes provided by other businesses 
as it couldnt be sure on what underwriting basis these had been provided.  
Mr P didnt accept this and referred  his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld as he felt Phoenix  Life was entitled  to use its commercial 
discretion when providing its quotes.  And he felt the offer of £150 was fair, given that, 
despite the delays, the quotes had nevertheless been provided to Mr and Mrs P well before 
the end of the policys term.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept this. They felt it was unfair that Phoenix could effectively charge 
whatever it wanted,  which undermined  the benefits  of the policys convertible  option. And 
Mr P noted  that the delays by Phoenix Life had given him less time to have the matter 
considered by us, meaning that hed had to start the new whole of life policy  in February 
2029 paying just over £300 per month while still waiting to hear what our view of the matter 
was  whether  it was fair for Phoenix Life to charge so much.
As the adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion,  the matters  been referred to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons.
Ref: DRN02570222It was unfortunate  that Phoenix  Life handled  the administration of the conversion of Mr and 
Mrs Ps policy so poorly. Clearly the delays and misinformation provided will have done little 
to give them confidence  in the fairness of conversion process  as a whole; in particular the 
element at the heart of the complaint  the cost of the conversion.
But I think Phoenix Life is entitled commercially  to charge what  it feels  is right.  I accept 
Mr Ps point  about doing so potentially holding policyholders to ransom  by making the cost of 
conversion so high that the option is not a viable  one. But I dont think there are grounds 
here to conclude that Phoenix Life has acted in that way. 
Insurance quotes between different companies  can often show considerable differences on 
what is, on the face of it, the same product. I dont think the differences here are such that it 
suggests Phoenix Life is doing  something  wrong. I note that Mr P felt that it originally quoted  
just £180 per month for the new cover thats now costing  him just over £300  per month. But 
it appears from its investigations that the £180  figure  was in relation to one of the other  
quotes provided for term and whole of life cover for lesser amounts. 
I note also Mr Ps comments  about having to accept the new higher premium while awaiting 
the outcome of this complaint  to see if thered be any requirement for Phoenix  Life to 
charge less. Again, I see his point, but ultimately  if it was the case that his adviser was able 
to source matching cover for the lower  sum of £180  per month I think he could  have 
mitigated his position by taking that alternative policy. 
In summary,  I consider that Phoenix  Life has made  a fair offer in respect  of its administrative 
failings and I dont  think it has been shown to have acted incorrectly in determining what  to 
charge Mr and Mrs P for their new cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0257022