K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  that Advancis Limited  trading as Buddy Loans acted irresponsibly 
when it accepted her as guarantor for a loan.
background
Miss S entered into a guarantee  and indemnity  agreement in respect of a £5,000 loan that 
Buddy Loans  provided to Mr M, the borrower, in January 2018.  The loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around  £197.  The total amount to be repaid over the five-
year loan term was around £11,877  including interest. 
Miss S says that she couldnt afford to guarantee the loan. She thinks Buddy Loans didnt 
carry out sufficient checks  and had it done so it would have realised that she had other 
debts, and that she was already guaranteeing another loan for the same  borrower.  Miss S 
has also complained  that she was in an emotionally  abusive relationship  and that this led her 
to make the guarantor application. 
The adjudicator looked into Miss Ss complaint and thought that Buddy Loans  ought not to 
have accepted her as the loan guarantor. Buddy Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators 
assessment. So the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07072102Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit  and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant  rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law. 
Buddy Loans  needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didn't act irresponsibly when 
it accepted Miss S as guarantor for the loan.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what it means for Miss Ss complaint. In doing so, I have considered the overarching 
questions:
Did Buddy Loans obtain Miss Ss properly  informed  consent to become guarantor  for 
the loan?
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss S was in a position  to sustainably repay  the loan,  in the event  that the borrower 
did not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown at the 
time?
Ultimately,  did Buddy  Loans make a fair lending decision (as Miss S would be equally 
liable for this loan with the borrower).
From what  Ive seen, I think its likely that Miss S did consent  to becoming the loan guarantor 
and I think its likely  that she understood the consequences of being a guarantor.   
The rules  and regulations required Buddy Loans to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether Miss S could afford to repay this loan in a sustainable manner, 
should the borrower fail to do so, as she was equally liable with the borrower.  It had to carry 
out this guarantor-focussed assessment in addition to the proportionate checks  it was 
required to undertake in relation to the borrower.  In effect this meant  that Buddy Loans had 
to ensure that, if the guarantee was enforced against Miss S, it wouldnt adversely impact 
her financial  situation.
Buddy Loans  has already accepted that it ought  to have carried  out more in-depth  checks on 
Miss Ss financial position,  in order to ensure that she could meet  the loan repayments, if 
she was called to do so as guarantor. 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time?
Miss S has provided us with copies of her bank statements so I can determine what better  
checks might have  shown  to Buddy Loans  at that time. And I have considered this 
information in light of what Ive set out above. Of course, different  checks might show  
different things. But I think if Buddy Loans  had carried  out what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered more about Miss Ss financial 
position.
Buddy Loans  was aware from its checks that Miss S had outstanding credit in the region of 
£17,400 including unsecured loans  and several  credit cards,  and she had a high credit 
utilisation of 98%. Miss S says she was also already guaranteeing  another loan taken out by 
the same  borrower.  Miss Ss bank  statements show that at the time, she was borrowing from 
a number of short-term high cost lenders;  she had exceeded  her overdraft limit on one 
account and was paying bank charges;  she was also transferring money regularly to the 
borrower which she says were ad hoc payments to help him out, but he only repaid her as 
and when he could.  
Ref: DRN07072103I think if Buddy Loans had looked further  into Miss Ss financial position  it would  reasonably 
have realised that after paying  her regular expenses, her existing creditors  and potentially 
repayments as guarantor on two loans, Miss S would have insufficient disposable income  
(likely to be less than £100) regularly left to cover  unexpected emergencies  during the 
extended loan term. Buddy  Loans has queried  what  level of disposable income would be 
deemed sufficient as it thinks that the loan was affordable for Miss S. But Buddy Loans was 
required to establish  whether Miss S could  sustainably make the loan repayments, if called 
upon as loan guarantor  not just whether the loan payments were  technically affordable  on 
a strict  pounds and pence calculation. 
Miss S potentially had to maintain the loan repayments as guarantor every  month  for five 
years  repaying in the region of £11,877.  Overall,  I think Buddy Loans ought  fairly to have 
realised that Miss S was most likely  going  find it very difficult to manage her financial 
position and that it was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably  repay the loan, if she 
was called to do so as guarantor, over the extended  loan term. I think in these 
circumstances, Buddy Loans should  reasonably have concluded it was not appropriate to 
accept Miss S as loan guarantor. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in some other way?
Miss S says she was pressured into guaranteeing the loan but she recognises  that her 
family or friends didnt realise  her situation  at the time, so she wouldnt have expected Buddy 
Loans to have picked it up either. But she says that now Buddy Loans  is aware,  it has not 
done enough to help her.
I am sorry  that Miss S has had a difficult time,  but I cant say from what  Ive seen that Buddy  
Loans was aware  at the time that she might  be a vulnerable consumer or that she might be 
feeling pressured into guaranteeing the loan.  And I havent seen enough information for me 
to say that I think Buddy Loans  has treated her unfairly in this regard since  it became aware 
of what she says about this issue.
But overall, I dont  think that Buddy Loans  ought reasonably to have accepted  Miss S as 
loan guarantor. She was expected to make repayments on a loan where she shouldnt  have  
been accepted as guarantor and I think Buddy Loans needs  to put things right.
Putting things  right 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far 
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer back in the position they would be in now 
if that wrong hadnt  taken place. In essence, in this case, this means Buddy Loans putting 
Miss S in the position  shed now be in if she hadnt  unfairly and unreasonably been accepted 
as a guarantor  on this loan.
Buddy Loans  should put things right for Miss S by:
a)Releasing Miss S from any obligations  under  the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement and then terminating it.
b)Refunding any payments made by Miss S as guarantor.  Buddy  Loans must add 8%* 
simple interest a year to each of those  sums,  from the date Miss S paid them  to the 
date the refund is paid to her.
c)Removing  any information  about this loan from Miss Ss credit file.
Ref: DRN07072104*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest.  Buddy 
Loans should give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct  Advancis Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0707210