K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a personal 
accident policy. 
background
When reviewing some old bank statements, Mrs T noticed a direct  debit  payment  had been  
taken each month between 1999 and 2006.  She didnt know what  this direct  debit  related  to, 
but suspected it may have been  payment  protection  insurance (PPI).
Mrs T brought a complaint  to this service. We eventually established that the policy was 
taken out through FICL. Its records showed the policy was a personal accident  plan that had 
been taken out in September  2000 and cancelled in August 2006.
Unfortunately, FICL didnt  have any information  relating  to the sale. Due to the lack of 
information, our adjudicator didnt feel able to conclude the policy had been  mis-sold. 
However, he thought  FICL should  have  accepted  responsibility for the sale far sooner than it 
had after being  notified of Mrs Ts complaint. He recommended  it pay £150  compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 April 2019. My provisional findings were:
Unfortunately, theres  no evidence  available  relating to the sale of the policy.  Thats not 
surprising, given that FICLs records show  the policy was taken out around 19 years ago and 
cancelled around  13 years ago. Financial  businesses  arent  required to hold financial 
information indefinitely.  The only information now available is the policy  document. 
Mrs T doesnt remember taking out the policy, but says she and her husband already had 
hospital plans  and so she didnt need this policy. 
Ive seen the bank statements provided by Mrs T which  have two direct debit payments for 
hospital plans   presumably one was in her name  and the other in her husbands name. 
However, I dont know who the insurer was for those policies, or what  the policies covered. 
Presumably, they provided cash benefits in the event of hospitalisation. 
Ive looked at the personal accident policy  document. This explains it provides  cover in the 
event of permanent  total disability, loss of sight, loss of use of limbs,  loss of hearing,  loss of 
use of a shoulder, a hip, knee, ankle, wrist or thumb, any finger or toe, hospitalisation and 
accidental death.  
As hospitalisation wasnt  the main  cover provided  under  the policy, Im not persuaded that 
because Mrs T apparently held hospitalisation cover  elsewhere, this meant the personal 
accident policy wasnt suitable for her. 
Overall, I dont  think Mrs T has shown that the policy was mis-sold. I therefore dont think 
theres any grounds for saying FICL should be required  to pay compensation.
FICLs records  say the policy was taken out in 2000, however Mrs T has provided a bank  
statement from 1999 which shows the premiums for the policy started to be collected  in that 
year. I dont know why FICLs records show the wrong start date for the policy, but I dont 
think this makes a difference to the matter. 
Ref: DRN03050472Our adjudicator thought FICL should have accepted  responsibility for the sale sooner than it 
had. He recommended it pay Mrs T £150 compensation. I disagree with this. I understand 
FICLs records  were archived so it wasnt able to establish who had sold the policy. Given 
how long has passed since  this policy was in force, I dont think  FICL were  at fault for not 
initially accepting responsibility for the sale.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
FICL confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
Mrs T responded with the following points:
the provisional decision only made  reference  to her, however  it was her and her 
husband who had been mis-advised;
she thinks they should have been advised  to pay extra into the mortgage, instead  of 
this policy;
she didnt ever meet FICL and has only recently found out that her bank must have 
initiated the sale. She says her bank had already  sold her mortgage protection  
insurance, which was the subject of a previous complaint dealt with by this service;
they had hospital plans insurance covering accidents and death.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, Mrs Ts comments havent  
altered my provisional  findings. Ill explain why. 
The policy was taken  out in Mrs Ts sole name, which is why this complaint has been set up 
in her name, rather than a joint complaint  with her husband. 
Mrs T thinks she and her husband should  have been advised to pay more into their 
mortgage, rather than take out this policy. However,  as Mrs T is aware,  there isnt any 
information from the time of sale. Based on the very limited information Ive seen,  I dont 
think Mrs T has shown  the policy was unsuitable for her. I dont even know if she received 
advice to take out the policy.
The policy document confirms that the policy was brought to her by her bank under an 
operating agreement with FICL. Given that theres  no information from the time of sale,  I 
dont know if Mrs T understood she was taking out the policy with FICL. But Im satisfied the 
policy document makes  it clear the policy was underwritten by FICL. I cant comment on the 
policy sold to Mrs T by her bank. 
Mrs T says she and her husband  already had hospital plans  that covered accidents  and 
death. Mrs T hasnt provided the policy documents for her hospital plan, therefore I cant  be 
sure what  that plan covered. However,  hospital  plans usually provide a cash  benefit  for 
hospital stays  and dont provide the same level of cover as a personal accident policy. I 
therefore remain of the opinion that Mrs T hasnt shown that holding a hospital plan meant 
that the personal accident plan was unsuitable for her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN03050473Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0305047