K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1984. Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after Santander sold Mr and Mrs H PPI. Prior to this there were fewer  requirements on a 
business when  selling  insurance  such as this. But Santander doesnt appear to have 
considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint any differently  it seems to me they have considered 
the sale of PPI against these later standards. So on the basis that it puts Mr and Mrs H in a 
more favourable position, I have taken into account the later industry codes  of practice  in 
considering what  I think  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Santander didnt need to tell Mr and 
Mrs H about the commission it received - so Santander doesnt need  to pay back  any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Ref: DRN07216162Mr and Mrs H say at no point was PPI discussed  during their mortgage meeeting. But I 
think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  now recall  doing so.  
I say this because  despite the passage of time, Santander has provided  a copy of 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application from 1984.  Looking at this I can see they were  
asked: Do you require personal,  accident and sickness  with redundancy cover?  
YES/NO. And the NO has been  crossed  through  leaving  the YES  option visible.  The 
application didnt  say or imply that cover had to be taken out, so if Mr and Mrs H didnt 
want PPI they couldve  indicated as such by crossing through the YES  option.
Santander has also provided the separate  PPI application, which required completing to 
take out the policy. And I can see this has been  signed by Mr H as the sole insured  
person. By having to complete a separate application from the mortgage,  I dont  think 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve  been under the impression  they had to have PPI.
So taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs H chose to take out PPI and they 
likely did so without undue pressure.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt receive advice.  But Santander says it recommended the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs H. This means  it had to check that the PPI was right for them. And the 
evidence about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances  at the time, shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them. For example  Mr H as the insured party was 
eligible for the cover and they had limited  existing means  Mr H says he didnt have  any 
enhanced sick pay and they didnt  have any savings to fall back on. So I think  Mr and 
Mrs H had a real need for cover   the policy was after all ultimately  protecting their 
home. 
There was nothing about Mr Hs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr and Mrs H say Mr H was in a high-risk occupation  but Ive 
seen nothing to indicate that as a fitter and turner he was limited or excluded  from 
making a claim on the policy. And Mr H hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been  for example the available evidence doesnt  show  that the cost or 
the benefit was clearly  disclosed. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks  
like they wanted  this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and 
Mrs H as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were 
buying from the information  they were given.  It also looks like it was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for them if something went  wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have declined  the cover had Santander 
done anything  more.
Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. I 
think the policy could  provide a useful benefit  in a difficult time, given their circumstances at 
the time.  I also think the policy  was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were 
getting. And in those  circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not that they would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Ref: DRN07216163Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should  have  disclosed  the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Hs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander didnt need  to disclose the commission  it received, 
so Santander  doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs H should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  Santander failed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the high commission  and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund  of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Santander has worked 
this out and based on what  weve seen,  Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs Hs 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN07216164As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Santander  needed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the commission.  So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Santander treated 
Mr and Mrs H unfairly.  
This means  Santander  doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs H back  any of the commission  they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Santander  UK Plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0721616