K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Hiscox Underwriting Limited (Hiscox) failed to action his request to 
cancel his insurance policy.
background
Mr H took out professional indemnity  and public liability insurance with Hiscox on 
9 January 2019. The annual premium for both policies was set at £37.57 for the first month 
and £37.53 thereafter. He later discovered  that he did not need the public liability policy,  so 
he emailed Hiscox on 10 January 2019 and asked  for this element of cover to be cancelled.
Mr H says he received an email from Hiscox on 11 January 2019 explaining that the 
premium had now reduced and his new monthly  payment would  be £31.93, and that he 
should receive an updated  payment schedule. However,  Mr H says he never received this, 
and that the £37.57 premium that was proposed initially was taken instead of the revised 
premium.
Mr H says he emailed Hiscox on 27 January 2019 complaining about the service he had 
received, where  he also explained that he had since secured another policy  elsewhere  and 
that he wanted them to cancel the whole policy and refund  him the amount he had been 
overcharged by. 
Hiscox explained that the public liability cover  was removed as originally requested,  and that 
revised documents were sent to his registered email address. The revised payment 
schedule confirmed that the first months  premium  would  remain at £37.57 as Hiscox  did not 
have enough time to amend the first payment on their system (which was why he was 
charged this amount). But they said that the following monthly payments  would  be reduced 
to £31.42 to reflect this.
In terms of Mr Hs cancellation email sent on 27 January 2019,  Hiscox say they wouldnt 
have seen this as it was sent to an email inbox  that was not monitored. They  say Mr H would 
have received an automated response  explaining  this, and that he should use alternative  
contact details if he wanted to get in touch. 
However, as his email  explained that he had sourced alternative insurance, Hiscox 
backdated the cancellation  of his policy to 27 January 2019 as a gesture of goodwill and 
paid a pro-rata refund of £18.67 (the premiums for the policy  running  from 9 January to 
27 January 2019). Mr H was unhappy  with this, as he considers he should also be 
compensated £100 for his time in dealing with this matter and the distress  and 
inconvenience it has caused.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She was satisfied that Hiscox had sent the 
revised documents to his email  address  on 11 January  2019,  so he ought to have known 
that the premium  that was initially proposed was going to be collected. The investigator  also 
felt their offer to backdate  the cancellation of his policy and pay a pro-rata refund  was fair 
given that the cancellation  had been  sent outside  of the 14 day cooling off period. Mr H 
disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
Ref: DRN00814862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Hiscox say they sent Mr Hs revised  documents  including  the revised payment schedule   
to his registered email  address (which is the same email address we have on file) on 
11 January 2019  at 16:22. And if he had seen this, they say he wouldve known that the first 
payment wasnt going to reflect the reduced  amount.  It isnt clear why he didnt receive this 
email. It may be that it was stopped by a spam filter for example. But I can see that the 
relevant documents were  attached to an email  that was sent to his registered  email address. 
So I dont  think Hiscox can fairly  be held responsible  for this communication error. 
In terms of the cancellation  emails sent by Mr H on 27 January 2019,  its unfortunate that 
these were sent to an email address  that was not monitored. And I appreciate that he may 
not have received any notification explaining this to him. But while  this is far from ideal, 
Hiscox have backdated the cancellation  of Mr Hs policy to 27 January 2019 and offered a 
pro-rata refund in any event. So the fact that they did not receive his emails (and that they 
may not have made this clear  to him) has not prejudiced  his position as they have rectified 
this with their gesture  of goodwill. 
I appreciate this would  have  been inconvenient for Mr H, But in the circumstances, I think 
Hiscoxs offer to pay a pro-rata  refund is fair compensation in the circumstances. It has put 
him back in the position he wouldve been in if Hiscox  had received his emails in the first 
place. I accept he may have spent  time following this up and complaining to the insurer,  but 
this service does not generally look to compensate customers  for the time they spend  
lodging a complaint. So I will not be asking Hiscox to do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0081486