K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy that when she sold her house  and redeemed her secured loan with Swift 
1st Limited she owed more than shed originally borrowed.
background
Ms M borrowed  £10,519 (plus fees) in November 2006. It was due to be repaid over a 
25-year term at a rate of £109.52 a month.
Unfortunately, Ms M got into difficulties with her payments and so the loan went  into arrears. 
In 2016 Ms M entered into an arrangement  to pay £150 a month which  started to reduce the 
arrears. But in 2018 she was told at that payment level her loan wouldnt be repaid within the 
original term.
Unhappy with that Ms M complained to Swift.  She also sold her house  and repaid  the loan. 
Swift rejected the complaint but offered to refund  a £12 fee (plus  £10.19  interest).
Ms Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He said that we had no power  
to consider a complaint about fees debited to the account before 20 February 2012 (six 
years before the date the complaint was made  to Swift). And having considered the account 
since that date he didnt think Swift had done  anything wrong.
Ms M didnt agree and so earlier this month I issued a decision setting out what  we could  
and couldnt  consider. In that I agreed with our adjudicator that we couldnt  consider any 
fees charged before 20 February  2012  and said a decision  would follow on the merits of the 
part of the complaint we could consider. I now issue that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Ms M. But although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having reviewed the various fees and charges on the account since 20 February 2012 Im 
satisfied those were applied reasonably in the circumstances. I say this because they were 
charged in accordance with the terms and conditions  of Ms Ms account and were based on 
the conduct of her account due to the arrears. I cant  see that any were  charged unfairly.
I appreciate Ms Ms concern that she owed more than she originally borrowed and would still 
have done so at the end of the term unless she increased her monthly  payments. The 
figures on the loan agreement  are based on a person paying all of the contractual  monthly  
repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. Clearly that didnt 
happen here as Ms M has been  in arrears for much of the time. 
As interest  is constantly  being charged  this means  its not as simple as making  up the 
missed payment, theres  also the extra interest  incurred  for every day that payment is 
overdue. This interest  roll-up can add up significantly as Ms M has found.  Thats  not to say 
Swift was charging interest on interest,  its just a simple fact that for each delayed payment 
extra interest will be charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is late. Then there  are the 
charges for the arrears  management added onto the debt.
Ref: DRN02857052The loan was in arrears over a prolonged period;  just to demonstrate this, the only calendar  
year (in the period  I can consider, which is from February 2012) that Ms M made  all her 
payments was 2017. This means  much more interest has been charged than was 
anticipated when  calculating the figures  for the original loan agreement. In summary, having  
very carefully considered this matter,  Ive not been  provided with anything  that shows  the 
balance owing at the time the loan was redeemed was incorrect.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres  nothing on there  that appears unusual  or 
incorrect. Of course, its open to Ms M to instruct an independent and suitably-qualified  
professional to audit  her account. But that would have  to be at her expense  though  if errors  
were found  to her financial  detriment,  she could complain about  them  and her costs in 
discovering them could  be taken into account in putting matters  right.  But as things stand, 
Im not persuaded that Swift has mis-managed her account.
I understand Ms M wanted Swift to accept a lower sum in full and final settlement of the loan. 
Sometimes a lender  may accept such an offer as it may feel its the best way to get back  
some of the money  its owed, but its down  to the lenders  commercial discretion. Here, Swift  
considered Ms Ms various requests but turned them down. Thats not unreasonable and 
these were decisions Swift was entitled to make. It would be entirely inappropriate for me to 
interfere with that commercial discretion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0285705