K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about pension  advice she received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
background
Mrs T took advice in 1993.  Aviva is responsible for that advice.  She was advised  to make 
contributions into a personal  pension plan (PPP). Mrs T says that she should  have been  
advised to join her employers pension scheme  (OPS) instead  as this would have been  more 
beneficial to her. She stopped payments into the PPP in 1996 and joined the OPS. But had 
she joined  the OPS  in 1993  she would  have increased benefits including the option  to retire 
early.
Mrs T complained to Aviva  in 2019.  It didnt  uphold the complaint saying that in 1993  the 
adviser had recommended that she join the OPS but she had decided  to continue with the 
PPP instead.
Mrs T referred her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by an investigator. The 
investigator didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld.  She noted  that the documentation 
from 1993 showed that the adviser  had discussed joining the OPS with Mrs T. There were  
notes added to the fact-find suggesting the adviser  discussed the availability of employer 
contributions and death in service benefits  in the OPS.
The investigator explained that the adviser was tied to Aviva and only licensed to make 
recommendations based on Aviva  products. The adviser wasnt  an independent financial 
adviser and wasnt  expected  to provide an in-depth tailored personal recommendation. The 
adviser appeared to have encouraged Mrs T to obtain the OPS scheme booklet and 
consider joining the OPS  and wouldnt be expected  to do anything  more than this. As the 
adviser wasnt making a personal recommendation he wouldnt have been expected to 
advise on the pros and cons of joining  the OPS.
The investigator added that Avivas role was to consider  whether the PPP wouldve been 
suitable for Mrs T and make her aware of the possible alternative  of joining the OPS.
Mrs T didnt  agree. She explained, in summary,  she had joined the OPS in 1996  due to her 
personal circumstances. This change  was not in response to the review Aviva says it had 
proposed in 1996. She doesnt recall any meeting in 1996. She restated  that in 1993 the 
adviser didnt attempt to give good  advice or advise what was in her best interest. She was 
sold life assurance  which  she didnt need  and this is evidence that the adviser wasnt acting 
in her interests. It wasnt  made clear that joining the OPS was her best option.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided that I 
agree with the investigator and with her reasoning. I dont uphold  this complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN09244382Mrs T received advice in 1993. The adviser  was a tied representative  and wasnt an 
independent financial  adviser. The adviser  wasnt under an obligation to conduct a full 
review and make a personal recommendation.
The advice was given  in 1993,  over 25 years ago. I cant know  exactly what was discussed 
or what emphasis  was placed on the suggestion  that Mrs T consider joining the OPS.  
However, I am satisfied  that the adviser did suggest  the OPS  and refer Mrs T to it. The fact-
find is reasonably  clear about  that. It records that two meetings took place and there  are a 
number of references in the fact-find  to the OPS and also a note of a recommendation that 
Mrs T consider joining it. I also note that Mrs T signed the fact-find.
I note what Mrs T has said about the sale of life assurance. That sale will be considered 
separately and I dont make any determination  of that complaint here.  I also understand her 
point that the sale of the life assurance  that she believes she didnt need,  should be 
considered as evidence that the pension advice  itself was bad. Ive considered this, but I 
dont agree. I have  to make an evidence based  decision. I cant  expect Mrs T to recall 
precisely what happened or what she was told in 1993. The adviser had limited  obligations in 
relation to the pension advice.  Based on the documentary evidence  available from the time, 
Im satisfied that the adviser probably met those  obligations. Im satisfied that he drew Mrs 
Ts attention to the option of joining the OPS. So I dont think  it would be fair to uphold  this 
complaint. 
I can understand Mrs Ts disappointment now she knows  that she would have been better of 
joining the OPS  sooner  than she did. But Im not satisfied that her complaint should  be 
upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0924438