K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the handling  of his mobile phone insurance policy with Liberty
Mutual Europe Limited.
Liberty Mutual is the provider of the insurance  and is therefore  responsible  for this complaint.
All references to Liberty Mutual in this decision should be read as also including  the 
claims/complaints-handlers acting  on its behalf.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in January 2019,  part of which is copied below: 
In May 2018, Mr M tried to claim under  his policy after his phone became faulty. However,
Liberty Mutual initially told him he didnt have a policy at all and then in another  call he was
told the phone he was claiming  for wasnt covered. Mr M first took out his policy with Liberty
Mutual in 2013.  He received a new phone in 2016  but the policy wasnt  updated to register
the replacement  phone.
Liberty Mutual finally confirmed that the phone  was covered at the end June 2018. However,
by then Mr M had replaced his phone himself and cancelled the policy. Mr M complained to
Liberty Mutual. Mr M has made a number of points, which Ive summarised below:
He spent several hours on the phone to Liberty  Mutual to try and register  his claim.
He spoke to around six people and no one was able to give him the right information
but they wanted to try and sell him an upgrade.
He was then eventually told he didnt have insurance cover and then the
representative put the phone down on him.
He had to call again and spoke to someone  who confirmed he did have an insurance
policy but not for the phone he currently was using. His original phone  had been
replaced under his policy in 2016 and the policy should have been amended
automatically to reflect  this but it wasnt.
He was going through medical treatment at the time of the claim and needed his
mobile phone.  The worry and anguish  over the refusal to repair his phone  and the
difficulties he had with Liberty Mutual caused  him panic attacks and distress
When he complained  and said he was going to bring the matter to this service,
Liberty Mutual told him it wouldnt allow it and he would never get to us.
Mr M has asked  for a refund of all the premiums he has paid since  2015  and compensation,
including the cost of a new phone  for which he had to pay £180.
Liberty Mutual accepted that it should have dealt with Mr Ms claim more quickly than it did. It
paid Mr M compensation  of £90.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt recommend that it be upheld.  The
investigator said it would have been up to Mr M to tell Liberty Mutual  the details of the new
phone in 2016. He had chosen to replace the phone  rather than have  it repaired and so
couldnt ask it to reimburse  the £180.  Overall she thought the £90 already paid was
reasonable.
Mr M doesnt accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been  referred  to
me. He says he never received  the final response  letter offering £90; the last communication
Ref: DRN00900502he had with Liberty Mutual was a telephone conversation on 26 June 2018 when it
discussed refunding premiums.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration at not being able to register his claim in May 2018.
Mr M should have been able to proceed  with his claim when he first tried to report  it on 
13 May 2018. Instead it took until 26 June 2018 for Liberty Mutual to confirm the correct
handset on the policy and start to process  the claim. By then Mr M had replaced his phone
himself and cancelled  the policy.
Mr M says the £90 paid by Liberty  Mutual was a refund of premiums  and should not be
considered as compensation. However,  Liberty  Mutuals final response letter  to Mr Ms
complaint makes clear  it is not refunding premiums and it is compensation:
Whilst I understand that there was a delay, we did contact  you to continue  with the claim but
you did not wish to go ahead. Due to this, the premiums will not be refunded.  You have since
cancelled the policy.
I am unable  to offer £200 compensation  however,  in recognition of the inconvenience and by
way of apology,  I have arranged to have  £90 credited to the account the premiums were
taken from.
This was compensation for the delay and I consider  it to be a reasonable amount for the
trouble caused  and it is in line with our usual  awards. I understand Mr M also received £20
from the agents for their part in providing  the wrong handset details.
Mr M was covered under the policy. I can understand why he has asked for the premiums to
be refunded. However, I dont agree  that they should  be refunded; Mr M was covered under
the policy and while this claim wasnt met in the end, that doesnt  mean  the premiums should
be refunded. However, Mr M did have  an apparently  valid claim under the policy but
because of the delay he felt compelled  to replace his phone  himself. I dont think it was
unreasonable for him to do so, especially given his personal circumstances at the time.
It seems  to me that, as Liberty  Mutual  has received the policy  premiums,  it should provide
some further  compensation to Mr M to recognise  the fact that it has not had to fulfil its
obligations under  the policy by repairing or replacing Mr Ms phone  because of the delays in
confirming cover.
Mr M says he spent  £180 on a new phone. I have little evidence about what  was wrong with
his original phone and whether it could have been  repaired  or not. I also dont know  whether
this was a like-for-like replacement. Both parties  can provide further evidence about this in
response to my provisional  decision. If no other evidence  is provided, my proposal is to
award a further  £130 compensation to Mr M to reflect the fact he had to replace his phone
himself, when it should have been  dealt with under the policy.  This takes into account the
amount he spent on a replacement  and that there would have been a policy excess  payable
as well. I consider this together with the £90 compensation already offered  is a fair outcome
to the complaint.
Ref: DRN00900503my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Liberty  Mutual Europe Limited and require it to pay
Mr M an additional £130, in addition to the £90 already offered, as reimbursement of his
financial loss and compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter
respectively.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they wasnt considered. 
Mr M has responded. He says the outcome is more acceptable but he doesnt accept it goes 
far enough. Mr M also says that some parts are not true and Ive interpreted things 
incorrectly. Mr M has provided  some more information and made  some  further  submissions. 
Ive summarised his main  points below: 
He says that his phone  became faulty within a week of the start of his contract  in  
2016. It was collected  by courier  to be repaired and then he was told it wasnt 
repairable. He received a replacement the next day. He was very pleased with this 
service. 
He says my provisional decision makes  it sound  like this replacement was provided 
under his insurance policy  with Liberty  Mutual but it wasnt;  it was replaced under the 
manufacturer warranty as it was only a few days old when it went wrong. 
I also said there was no evidence that his phone couldnt have been repaired but 
again this is untrue,  it was beyond repair as confirmed by the seller  and thats  why it 
was replaced. 
He had no contact  with Liberty  Mutual  until 14th May 2018 and it failed to honour  the 
contract, so he is at a loss as to why I have not agreed that he should be refunded  
the premiums he has paid. He paid five years premiums and never needed to use 
the insurance but when he did, he was treated like he didnt exist.  No one should 
have to go through this turmoil, especially given how ill he was.
A cheque for £90 was received in a blank envelope through his door, with no 
business header or return address.  There was no letter  and no explanation. He has 
never seen the letter  that I quoted in my provisional decision.  
As he had discussed the return of his premiums  with Liberty  Mutual and had  
calculated that the refund would amount to £90. as a refund of his payments. He still 
believes that was not compensation but my was the requested  refund payments - if 
not, it is very strange that Liberty  Mutual send the exact figure that he had thought of 
that day. 
Liberty Mutual refers  to the delay in dealing with his claim,  from 14 May to 27 June 
2018 and it suggests  this was acceptable. 
He was contacting Liberty Mutual during this time telling them how desperate he was 
and how much my health depended on his mobile.
He is still in shock about the way he was spoken to; he was berated  and told he 
would never be able to bring the complaint to this service.  
Hes paid a total of around  £240 for the policy, but has never  had a claim. On his first 
contact he was refused cover  after paying all these years, he paid out this money for 
nothing. He cant work due ill health and so can't afford to give company £240 for 
nothing.
He did buy a replacement phone for £180 but this was second hand, he also had to 
borrow some  money from a small loan company to pay for it. 
Ref: DRN00900504His phone was worth  probably  between £200- £250.
Liberty Mutual has also responded to my provisional decision. It says that its policy will 
provide a like for like replacement. It will consider the additional £130 payment, if Mr M can 
provide a receipt showing he purchased  a like-for-like replacement phone
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was aware that the phone Mr M first took the insurance out for was replaced by the 
manufacturer and not by Liberty Mutual as part of an insurance claim. It is because this 
wasnt replaced by Liberty Mutual  that it didnt know Mr M had a different phone  from the one 
it had recorded  as being insured and which caused  the delay in his claim being dealt with.  
I also acknowledged that this caused considerable delay in processing  his claim, which I 
didnt think was acceptable. However,  I considered that the £90 compensation already paid 
for that delay was reasonable. I remain of the opinion that this was compensation and not a 
refund of premiums, for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision.  Mr M has said this 
was delivered to his door but Liberty  Mutual says it was credited to his account. I dont intend 
to make any finding about this, as it doesnt  make any difference  provided it was paid to     
Mr M.
Mr M has also referred to phone calls with a representative from Liberty  Mutual in which he 
was berated and told he would ensure Mr M was unable to bring his complaint to this 
service. Mr M was provided with referral rights to this service and Liberty Mutual has 
cooperated with our process. I have  seen its notes of some  telephone calls with Mr M but  
perhaps unsurprisingly  they do not reflect what he has said.  I do not doubt that Mr M was 
unhappy with what he was told in some of those calls but I do not consider that there is 
enough evidence  for me to take this any further.   
I also remain of the opinion that some  further  compensation  is warranted  for the fact that the 
delay meant  Mr M replaced  his phone himself. I said there was no evidence  that this phone 
was irreparable  or details  of the replacement  and there still isnt. Mr M reported that it was 
faulty. He has said he had to replace it with a second-hand phone and he incurred some 
interest on a loan to do so. Ive not been provided  with any documentary  evidence of that. In 
an earlier email to the investigator, Mr M said his son had replaced his phone, as he could 
not afford  to do so. However, overall, given the make and model of the insured phone £180  
doesnt seem to me to be an obviously unreasonable amount for a replacement.  Mr M also 
says he could not have managed with a non-smart  phone (which would have been cheaper).  
My provisional decision was that, on the evidence available to me, Liberty Mutual  should  pay 
a further £130 compensation  to Mr M to reflect the fact he had to replace his phone  himself, 
when it should  have been dealt with under the policy. This was to take into account the 
amount he told us he had spent  on a replacement and that there  would have been a policy  
excess payable as well. I remain of the opinion that this, together with the £90 compensation 
already offered, is a fair outcome to the complaint and puts Mr M back, as much as possible, 
into the position he would have been in had Liberty Mutual been able to proceed  with his 
claim promptly when he first made  it.  
Ref: DRN00900505my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Liberty Mutual  Europe Limited and require it to pay
Mr M an additional £130, in addition to the £90 already offered, as reimbursement of his
financial loss and compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0090050