K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the increase in annual fees he says Curtis Banks Limited (Curtis 
Banks) applied to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  despite what  he says was an 
assurance that it wouldnt raise fees when it took over the administration  of his plan. He 
wants the increase  in his fees paid back to him on the basis  he will continue with the SIPP to 
age 75. 
background
Mr J held a SIPP with Friends  Life. In 2015  he was advised that the administration of the 
SIPP was being  taken over by Curtis Banks.  The letter he received explained that there 
would be no additional increase in plan charges, above those allowed for annually  under the 
existing terms and conditions, as a result of the transfer.
In 2018 Curtis Banks sent Mr J an update to the SIPPs  terms and conditions and a new 
schedule of fees. It said the fees were being brought into line with those that applied to the 
rest of Curtis Banks business  and were designed  to simplify the charging structure.  
Mr J complained. He said Curtis  Banks had said it wouldnt be increasing his SIPP  fees 
when it took over the administration of his plan so it was unfair for it to change the fees now. 
He said the increase in fees was around  75% which he felt was unreasonable. Curtis  Banks  
explained that  while it did say that fees werent  being increased when it took over the 
administration of the plan in 2015  it didnt guarantee that fees wouldnt change in the 
future. It also explained that it hadnt implemented the annual  increases that had been  put in 
place by the previous administrator and it believed that most plan holders would benefit  from 
lower charges under its changes.
Mr J didnt agree so he brought his complaint to us.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
Curtis Banks had acted  in line with its terms and conditions. And that Mr J had been free to 
transfer to another provider if he wasnt happy  with the changes in the fee structure. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said he agreed to the transfer of the administration  of his plan based 
on the terms and conditions at the time.  He thought  it was unfair that these terms and 
conditions were changed afterwards and he believed the actual increase in the charges was 
unreasonable. He also said it wasnt fair to say he could have transferred to another provider  
if he was unhappy  with the increase in fees, as he couldnt find another  provider that could 
match his existing charges, especially with the set up costs that would be involved.
The investigator confirmed that Mr J didnt have a say in the matter of whether he accepted 
the transfer. He explained  the transfer was going to happen anyway regardless of what 
interpretation Mr J had of the 2015  letter. But Mr J still didnt agree, so as no resolution could 
be found the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN07344452Ive seen a copy  of the terms and conditions that Curtis  Banks says applied when the SIPP  
was transferred  and which  it says was sent to Mr J when the SIPP transferred to it. Ive 
seen how in the  charges section it said Curtis Banks charges are set out in the fee 
schedule .Curtis Banks reserves the right to make changes to charges, or to apply new 
charges, at any time. There are a number  of circumstances  that could lead to a change in 
charges, such as a change in costs or expenses as a result of a change in the tax rules, 
legislation or regulation  or if staff or overhead costs are higher than Curtis Banks expects. 
The change in charges would be reasonable and proportionate to the change in costs and 
expenses. If this happens, Curtis Banks will write to all policyholders who are affected to tell 
them of the change.
And Ive seen how Curtis Banks did write to Mr J in 2018 to make him aware  of the changes  
it was going to make including issuing  a schedule of the new charges. So I dont think Curtis 
Banks has done anything wrong  as its acted in accordance with how it said it would in its 
terms and conditions. And Ive seen  that the variation section of the terms and conditions  
says that it can make changes or additions to these terms and conditions for any 
administrative or other reason, which may or may not have a detrimental affect upon you. 
So I cant say Curtis  Banks  has done anything wrong here by increasing  its charges.
Mr J has said that the letter he received  in 2015  the content of which  he relied  upon  going 
forward after the transfer to Curtis Banks   said that there wouldnt be any additional 
increases in charges. He said if hed been  told at the time of the transfer that charges might 
be increased he would have been  able to make a more informed decision about what  to do 
going forward. 
But Ive seen the letter from 2015  which said as a result of this transfer-  there  will be no 
additional increase in plan charges or fees. And theres no evidence of any increase in fees 
as a result  of the transfer, so I think  Curtis Banks did what it said it would do at that time. But 
Curtis Banks wouldnt have known  at that time if there was any reason to change its fees at 
some point in the future and I havent seen that it gave Mr J any guarantees that it wouldnt  
do so. As Ive explained above the terms and conditions  allowed for changes to the SIPP 
depending on a number of various factors. Ultimately Curtis Banks decided to align the fees 
it charged Mr J with those it charged  the rest of its SIPP clients.  I think  thats a legitimate 
business decision that Curtis Banks  was entitled  to make and we wouldnt normally  interfere 
in such decisions.
But I would expect Curtis Banks to notify  Mr J of any such changes  and to allow  him to move 
to a different  provider  without any exit penalties. I think  the terms and conditions again  made  
provision for this as they said - If you suffer a detriment as a result of a change or addition  
under this paragraph you may notify  Curtis  Banks and you will be free to transfer your Plan 
to another registered pension scheme. Curtis  Banks will waive  any fees incurred as a direct  
result of the transfer,  so long as the transfer  is made within  three months, or such  longer 
period as may be reasonably necessary in the circumstances, from the date on which  the 
Curtis Banks gave  you written notice of the change or addition.
Mr J also says he doesnt think the increase in charges is reasonable. He thinks  its a 
significant increase  and not proportionate. Curtis  Banks says it was done to align all aspects 
Ref: DRN07344453of its business  and that while some  customers might pay more  others will pay less. But I 
dont think I can say the charges are unfair because of the level at which  Curtis Banks set 
them. I appreciate  Mr J feels  strongly about this, but thats a matter  for Curtis Banks. 
As Ive already  said I would expect Curtis Banks  to give prior notice of the increase and to 
offer Mr J the opportunity to transfer  to a different provider without penalty. And Ive seen 
how it accomplished  that in the letter of 2018 which gave  30 days notice  of the changes and 
explained If you do not wish to accept the changes, you are entitled to transfer  to another 
pension provider. If you do decide  to transfer  away please contact us to request a discharge 
form and return it to us by 25 August 2018.  If the discharge form is returned  to us before that 
date, we will waive our usual transfer  out fee of £250 + VAT however all other fees will still 
apply.
Ultimately here I think Curtis Banks  has explained why it needed to increase Mr Js SIPP 
fees and I think  it was entitled to do that in accordance with its terms and conditions. I know 
Mr J believes  the letter he received in 2015 set out that his fees wouldnt increase but theres 
no evidence that Curtis  Banks guaranteed that to be the case after the transfer. So I cant  
say Curtis  Banks has done anything wrong here.  I know  this outcome will disappoint  Mr J but 
I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against Curtis Banks Limited 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0734445