K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss H says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss H applied for a credit card over the internet. At the same  time she was sold the PPI 
policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Miss H disagreed  with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt miss-sold because:
Capital One has shown us screenshots which it says Miss H wouldve seen when  she 
applied for the credit  card. Having looked  at these  I think its likely Miss H wouldve seen 
these or similar  while  applying for the credit card. From the screenshots  I can see Miss H 
couldve accepted  or declined  the PPI by clicking  one of two buttons. And I note the PPI 
premiums wouldve appeared on Miss Hs statements for some time. If Miss H had not 
agreed to the PPI being on her account or not wanted the PPI Id expect her to have 
questioned it at an early  stage. But Ive not seen any evidence  that she did so. 
Taking all this into account I think Capital One made  it clear that Miss H didnt have  to take 
out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this.
Because Miss H applied  for the credit card over the internet  I dont think  Capital One 
recommended the PPI to her. So it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have 
to make sure Miss H got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because:  
Ref: DRN06147082Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell   
Miss H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said - including what she said about not needing 
the policy due to her employee benefits.  But it seems Miss H chose to purchase the PPI. 
And while I accept Miss H enjoyed some  level of sick pay from her employer, the PPI policy 
wouldve paid out a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay and for up to 12 months  if she 
couldnt work. So I still think Miss H would  find the policy useful, particularly if she was 
unable to work for a prolonged period. 
Miss H has also told us her parents wouldve helped her if she couldnt  work. But this kind of 
help cant be guaranteed  and Miss Hs parents might not have been in a position to help 
when she needed  it most.  And in any event the policy would mean Miss H wouldnt need to 
ask her family for help to meet her credit card repayments.
The policy would also have paid out if Miss H lost her job meaning she wouldnt need to use 
her savings or any redundancy pay to meet the credit card repayments. So even  if Capital 
One had given Miss H clearer information about  the policy,  I think  shed still have gone 
ahead and bought it. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc  does have  to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0614708