K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Platform Home Loans  Ltd mis-sold  him an interest-only mortgage.  He 
says hes now locked  into a zombie mortgage and cant re-mortgage elsewhere.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage with Platform in 2006,  and some  additional  borrowing  in 2007. 
Platform transferred  the whole  mortgage  to another lender  in 2008. There  have  since been 
some arrears on the mortgage, and Mr K feels trapped and unable to re-mortgage  to get a 
better deal.
In September  2018, Platform wrote to Mr K. It said it had made a mistake with the interest 
rate on his mortgage: it had changed  the rate on the wrong date,  following  changes in the 
Bank of England  base rate. It said this meant Mr K had been  overcharged  by around £70. It 
sent him a cheque  for £127.67,  to include 8% simple  interest,  less tax.
Mr K made a complaint about the sale of the mortgage. Platform said he had left it too late to 
complain. Hed taken out the mortgage more than six years  earlier, and Platform said he 
should have known sooner if he had cause for complaint. It also said it hadnt sold the 
mortgage, so any advice Mr K had received  was the responsibility of the broker he had used. 
Mr K got in touch with us. He said Platform shouldnt have sold him a self-certified, interest-
only mortgage. He also wanted to complain  about  the interest rate on the mortgage and the 
refund Platform  had sent to him in late 2018. 
Our investigator found that Platform hadnt sold the mortgage, so it wasnt responsible  for 
any advice Mr K had been given. He said mortgage  regulation had changed in the 
intervening years so, while self-certification mortgages are no longer available  now,  they 
were accepted when  Mr K took out his mortgage  so Platform  had done nothing  wrong  in 
lending on that basis. He also concluded that Platform had put right its mistake with Mr Ks 
mortgage interest, and the mortgage offer said the interest rate would be linked to Bank  of 
England base rate rather than the London Inter-bank Offered Rate  (LIBOR)  and that is the 
rate Mr K had got.
Mr K didnt accept that conclusion. He thought the investigator was biased, and explained 
that mistakes made by lenders  who took over the mortgage after Platform mean he is now 
locked into a mortgage he can never  move  to another lender.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I think  its important to be clear that our service is impartial. A decision not to 
uphold a complaint isnt evidence of bias, and I can assure Mr K that I have considered his 
complaint impartially  and independently.
There are two aspects to this complaint. I will deal with each in turn.
Ref: DRN01968962the sale of the mortgage
Platform has said it no longer has copies of documents from the time of the sale in 2006,  
because it passed  those on to a new lender more than ten years  ago. It has also said that it 
only accepts mortgage applications through independent brokers. Mr K has provided  a copy 
of his mortgage offer. That shows that a broker recommended  he take out the mortgage. So 
Im satisfied that Platform didnt sell the mortgage or give Mr K advice  about  whether it was 
suitable for him. 
Besides that, Mr Ks argument is that the mortgage  was mis-sold because  he self-certified 
the information on his application  and the mortgage  is interest-only. As the investigator 
explained, mortgage regulation has changed significantly since 2006. At that time, there was 
nothing to say that Platform  shouldnt have  accepted  Mr Ks application just because  it was 
self-certified, and I see no particular  reason  why it shouldnt  have  agreed  to lend on an 
interest-only basis in the circumstances.
interest on the mortgage
When Platform wrote  to Mr K last year with details of the interest  refund it was paying him, it 
explained how it had calculated the refund and the interest it was adding  to the refund. We 
are not an auditing service, but I can see nothing in either Platforms letter  or anything Mr K 
has told us to indicate that it got its calculations wrong. The mistake related  to one interest 
rate change in 2007.
The mortgage offer I have  seen show that the interest rate on Mr Ks mortgage has always 
been linked  to Bank of England base rate, rather than LIBOR. So I dont consider Platform 
did anything wrong  in charging  him interest based  on that rate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0196896