K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  the way a claim for fire damage  under their home 
insurance policy has been handled  by China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd.
background
On 10 December 2017 there was a fire in a one-bedroom detached outbuilding at 
Mr and Mrs Ws property.  The next day China Taiping  appointed  a loss adjuster to manage 
the claim and the loss adjuster visited the property on the following day. It appointed a 
specialist restoration  company in January 2018.
There was then some discussion about  the value of the contents. China Taiping said they 
hadnt been insured for their full value. So it reduced the contents claim settlement 
proportionately. The contents claim was agreed  towards the end of March  2018 and settled 
in April. China Taiping  said the contents  claim had to be settled before the property was 
cleaned and restored  by its specialist as that work  might affect the contents.
The cleaning was finished  by early April 2018.  Mr and Mrs W then provided  two quotes for 
the building  work. Based  on these China  Taiping  made an offer to settle the buildings claim. 
On 2 May Mr and Mrs W emailed to say they accepted its offer.  In mid June the claim was 
finally paid.
Mr and Mrs W first complained to this service  in February 2018.  In August 2018 our 
investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She thought thered been some delays in the 
course of the claim and China Taiping should pay Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation on 
account of that. She also thought it should  pay interest on the settlement payments from the 
date of acceptance to the date of payment.
China Taiping agreed to pay interest but not compensation.  Mr and Mrs W didnt think  the 
compensation was enough for the trouble and upset theyd suffered.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter  has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When determining complaints of this nature I look at the overall way the claim has been 
handled and the effect this had on the consumer. 
In this case Mr and Mrs Ws two relatives and their dog came to live with them from the 
time of the fire to when  the claim had been  finally settled. That will undoubtedly  have 
caused Mr and Mrs W some inconvenience.  But to some extent theyd have suffered this 
anyway regardless of how the claim had been  handled. Im only looking at the extent to 
which China Taiping made the whole experience worse than it needed  to be as a result of 
the way it handled the claim.
From start to finish the claim took over six months.  I appreciate that must have seemed like 
a very long time to Mr and Mrs W. But actually  that doesnt seem  excessive to me, bearing 
in mind several relevant factors. Firstly the claim started not long before Christmas. Sorting 
Ref: DRN01279602out the total value of Mr and Mrs Ws contents  and the extent of their under-insurance took a 
little while.  I also dont  think it was unreasonable of China Taiping based on what  it had 
been told by its restoration company to say that the contents claim needed to be finalised 
before the cleaning  work started.
The main  delay was in settling the claims after Mr and Mrs W accepted the settlement 
offers. This took about three weeks for the contents claim and six weeks  for the building  
claim. This must have been  very frustrating for Mr and Mrs W. I agree that China Taiping 
ought to pay interest  on the settlements from the dates on which they were accepted  to the 
date of payment  to compensate Mr and Mrs W for this. They  also had the stress of chasing 
for updates  because  at times  there was poor communication on the part of China Taiping. 
Overall I think  the sum of £200  is appropriate to compensate Mr and Mrs W for the delays 
and trouble and upset  caused by poor claim handling.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to pay:
£200 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs W; and
interest* on the settlement payments for the buildings and contents claims in each case 
from the date of acceptance to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If China  Taiping  
Insurance (UK) Co Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Mr and Mrs W, it should  tell them  how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing this if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0127960