K820x#14complaint
Mr J and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr J and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 1998. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr J and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr J and Mrs Cs complaint because:
The loan agreement  Mr J and Mrs C signed  showed the cost of the PPI separately to the 
loan repayments   and described  the PPI as optional.  So I cant reasonably  conclude  
that Nationwide didnt make Mr J and Mrs C aware they had a choice about buying  the 
PPI or say that they didnt choose  to take it. 
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr J and Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. 
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement. So I think  Mr J and Mrs C 
shouldve been aware of how much  it would cost. 
Its possible that Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr J and Mrs C dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr J and Mrs Cs comments, including  what theyve said about  
having sick pay through their work.  But these  points dont change my conclusion.  The PPI 
wouldve made the loan repayments  if Mr J had been unable  to work, including  if hed been 
made redundant or if hed died. That wouldve left any sick pay available  for other things. So 
I dont think this is sufficient for them to have declined the policy  if theyd fully understood the 
benefits. I appreciate  that Mr J and Mrs C will disagree with my conclusions here.
Ref: DRN03058162my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0305816