K820x#14complaint
Mrs V complains that Godiva Mortgages  Limited  made a series  of errors in applying direct 
debit payments to her mortgage account which led to arrears and adverse information being 
recorded on her credit  record.
background
Mrs V took out a buy to let mortgage with Godiva. In 2018 she says that direct debits were 
taken from her joint bank account held with her husband at a different business. These were 
not applied to the mortgage. In her view this was corrected in December 2018.  So the 
arrears reported and the collection  and legal action taken before then was unnecessary and 
incorrect. She wants her credit record adjusted and says that shed been told that this would 
happen. And she wants compensation for Godiva sending a debt collector to her home.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-Hed looked at all the evidence including bank statements provided by Mrs V. He said 
he was making findings based on what he thought was most likely.
-Hed listened to telephone calls between Mrs V and Godiva  and then with her 
husband who she asked  to represent  her. Theyd  both mentioned problems at their 
bank with a fraud. This had likely resulted in some  payments being  stopped  and he 
concluded that this is what had happened  to the mortgage payments.
-It was up to Mrs V to ensure that payments  were  made  on time to the mortgage
-He thought that given  this Godiva could take fees and legal action and report missed  
payments to credit reference agencies. 
Mrs V did not agree  and wanted  her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  She made 
a number of detailed comments about her mortgage  statement for 2018. She pointed out 
that there  were discrepancies  between the dates of the direct  debits on her bank  account  
and those showing on the mortgage.  She was unclear  why only some  missed direct debit 
fees were taken. She believed that payments had been made in some of the months.  She 
questioned the calculation  of the arrears. Importantly  she disputed  that her husband  made 
card payments to the mortgage in December 2018  to clear arrears. This she said was the 
correction of the missing  payments by Godiva  and she was then told by a member of staff 
that the adverse information would  be removed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs V as I say has made very detailed comments about the transactions  on her mortgage. 
This service is not in a position  to undertake detailed loan reconciliations. I need to decide 
here whether Godiva  has made any errors based on the evidence  submitted and comments 
made. And Im going to look at what I see are the key issues to determine this.
what happened with the direct debits?
There was a direct debit mandate which allowed Godiva to attempt to take payments to the 
mortgage each  month.  But during 2018  any direct debit payments  shown  to the mortgage 
account were marked as being returned unpaid. Mrs V has provided only extracts  of her 
bank statements and a transaction  list from her bank. These show  that the direct debits 
Ref: DRN06198792seemed to be being taken at times from the account. But all the other information has been 
obscured which means it is not possible to see whether there is a permanent  impact on the 
balance on the bank account. That might  also have been clarified by having  sight of the 
subsequent entries  to establish if each direct  debit was returned unpaid.  
Mrs V has questioned how after the direct  debit was cancelled in July 2018 it was re-
established. But I heard  that being  done  in a recording  of a call between  her husband and 
Godiva. The other  key thing that both she and her husband  mentioned  during calls Ive 
listened to were problems when they changed  bank  account at the start of 2018 and then 
with an ongoing  fraud to that account.  As late as September 2018 her husband mentioned  
he was disputing transactions.
Godiva has shown it wrote to Mrs V about each missed direct  debit  but I know  she says she 
did not get the letters. On balance I find Godivas evidence about the return of all the direct 
debits to be persuasive. And this is supported by its case notes  including  a clear  record  that 
it was Mrs Vs husband who cleared the arrears  in December 2018. Ive seen  nothing  I 
consider supports Mrs Vs claim that this was in fact a correction  of what  she says were past 
payment mis-posts by Godiva.
the arrears
Now Ive made the finding about  the direct debits I can consider the statement of her 
mortgage account. 
Im satisfied that by May 2018 there  was one payment in arrears. And Ive listened to a call 
between Mrs V and Godiva on 19 June 2018 when she made  a manual payment to clear  the 
arrears. She was told that this brought the account  up to date and that it was expected that 
Junes payment would be taken by direct debit towards the end of the month. She was told 
during the call that Godiva had sent a letter in June 2018 about the May arrears. And she 
knew that a credit reference agency  would be reporting this.
In a call on 26 July 2018 the arrears  were discussed again. Mrs V passed  the phone  to her 
husband. The June  2018 payment hadnt been made and the July 2018 payment was due. 
Godiva was asked  whether  if these payments were made Mrs Vs credit record  would be 
amended. But the person at Godiva  said that there had been late payment issues  dating  
back to February 2018, that it had sent out arrears letters and that her record would not be 
amended.
In a call on 21 August 2018 Mrs Vs husband accepted  that there were by then two months 
arrears and undertook  to clear these within a few days. He did not do so. He was told that 
the direct  debit payment would be attempted at the end of August but that later showed as 
being unpaid.
The other call Ive been provided  with is from September 2018. Mrs Vs husband then asked 
to set up a payment plan to repay the arrears.  This followed a visit by an agent sent by 
Godiva to discuss the mortgage position. He said that rent was coming  through  for the 
mortgaged property but their bank account  was still on hold. 
There were no further successful payments made  until December 2018. By that time Godiva  
had instructed solicitors  and intended to take court action.  Its case notes state that Mrs Vs 
husband made payments on 6 and 7 December 2018 to clear  all arrears and avoid court  
Ref: DRN06198793action. That was six months of arrears  and Im satisfied did not cover the December 2018 
payment itself.
The evidence from Godiva is that the December  2018 and January 2019  payments were not 
made until February 2019. The bank statement from Mrs V appears  to show payments with 
a reference of 14 February 2019  being made  on 2 January  2019.  To me that seems odd and 
not reliable information. So I accept on balance  that there were further late payments.
the actions Godiva took
Godiva applied £5 fees for missed payments in February 2018 and September  2018. It 
charged an arrears review fee of £20 in August 2018. And a fee for a visit to facilitate debt 
counselling of £60 in October 2018.  Godiva emphasises that it was not a debt collector  that 
visited. Legal fees were  then incurred and resulted in a charge of £910 for legal action in 
December 2018.  During this time as I say it was writing to Mrs V about the account. There  
were also the calls Ive referred to. I dont consider its actions and costs to be unreasonable  
given the position on the account and growing  arrears.
assessment
Ive not commented on every  detailed point Mrs V has raised. But as I explained I have dealt 
with the issues  that help me determine  whether  Godiva made  a mistake or acted 
unreasonably. I have made a number of findings  on the evidence. I am not persuaded that 
the direct  debit payments were being  received. So there were growing arrears  after June 
2018 that were  not cleared until December 2018. And Ive seen no compelling  evidence to 
support Mrs Vs claim  that Godiva told her it would  adjust her credit  record.  So I dont find it 
made a mistake or acted unreasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0619879