K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains about the repairs esure  Insurance Limited carried out to her car under her 
motor insurance policy.
background
Miss Rs car was damaged in an accident and esure had it repaired at its approved garage. 
But Miss R said there  was a noise  coming from a rear wheel that had had been damaged in 
the accident. She took it back to the garage  which  said it road-tested the car and found the 
problem wasnt accident related. Miss R disputed this. 
esure approved a dealership to investigate the issue.  But its report  highlighted that further 
checks were needed.  An independent engineers report also said further checks  were  
needed to see if the problem was accident related or not. So esure said there  wasnt 
evidence that the noise  was accident  related. But it did award  Miss R £75 for her 
inconvenience. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. From the reports,  he 
thought the problem could  be accident related or due to wear  and tear. And he thought the 
further checks should be carried out, at esures  expense, by the dealership to allow the 
independent engineer to decide this. And he also thought esure  should  pay Miss R an 
additional £100 compensation for the trouble caused  her. 
esure replied  that it had done all that was necessary  under the policy.  It said a recent MOT  
hadnt identified  problems related to the issue.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now over two years since Miss Rs accident and over a year since  esure  responded to 
her complaint about the repairs. From  what  I can see, the problem still hasnt been resolved. 
I can understand that this must be frustrating and worrying  for Miss R.  
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Like the adjudicator,  Ive looked at the time-line of events and the various engineers  reports 
provided. I can see that Miss R first reported the problem to esure when  she reported the 
accident. The noise  was coming from the area impacted by the accident.  The issue was 
investigated by the repairing garage, but remained unresolved. And, from what  I can see, the 
problem is still there.  
The engineers reports Ive seen are inconclusive  and recommend further  checks  to decide  
whether the problem is accident related or not. These recommendations are, in summary:
Check the handbrake operation
Ref: DRN05921512Check near side rear hub and bearing
Check wheel balance  for buckling
Rear bumper to be removed and inspected 
I cant see that these checks have been  made. esure said a subsequent MOT  didnt identify 
any problems with the handbrake or wheel bearing. But I dont think  this is enough to say 
that there  isnt accident related damage  thats causing the noise.
So I dont  think esure has justified its decision that the problems  Miss R has reported arent 
due to the accident. I think  esure  should  reasonably  arrange for these checks  to be carried 
out at the dealership garage. It should liaise with the garage to ensure that the report  
addresses these particular issues. And then it should instruct the independent  engineer to 
consider what is or isnt accident related damage  concerning the near side rear wheel. This 
should take into account that the passage of time since  the accident  may have worsened 
any damage. And then any accident  related repairs should be carried out. 
I can see that this issue  has caused  Miss R worry and inconvenience. I think  esure should 
reasonably compensate her for this. The adjudicator recommended £100, in addition  to the 
£75 previously awarded. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id 
award in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
1.Arrange for the recommended checks listed above to be carried out at the dealership 
garage.
2.Arrange for the independent  engineer  to consider the resulting  report  and decide what is 
or isnt accident related concerning the near side rear wheel.
3.Arrange for any further repairs for accident  related damage,  or an alternative settlement 
provided by the policy terms and conditions.
4.Pay Miss R £100  further compensation (£175 in total)  for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused her. 
Ref: DRN05921513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0592151