K822xcomplaint
Miss Q complains  that Nationwide Building Society offered her a reducing overdraft 
arrangement without informing her of the consequences for her credit file.
background 
Miss Q had an agreed overdraft on her Nationwide account. The limit was £800 but in 
August 2017,  Nationwide wrote to her to say they would be reducing it to £500. They asked 
her to pay back the difference of £300  by a particular date. Miss Q contacted  Nationwide  as 
she wasnt able to do this. They offered  her a reducing overdraft arrangement.  She agreed 
to this but later discovered that it was recorded  on her credit  file and adversely affected her 
credit rating. 
She says Nationwide didnt tell her this would be the case  and she wouldnt have  agreed  to it 
if shed known. She says she would have  borrowed money from family to pay off the £300 
instead. She says she was misled into agreeing the arrangement. And shes unhappy with 
the reason Nationwide  gave for reducing  the overdraft limit in the first place.
Miss Q complained to Nationwide. She says that, after lengthy correspondence, they agreed 
to remove the arrangement from her credit file. But shes unhappy that it took another  six 
weeks for that to happen.
Miss Q requested a recording of the telephone call in which  the arrangement  was agreed. 
She says Nationwide didnt send it to her in a format she could  listen to and that they sent 
her the wrong  password.  She didnt receive some of their emails  and questions  whether they 
were sent.  And she visited a branch of Nationwide to listen to the call but wasnt  able to do 
so. She says she had to involve her father to try and help her get the recording from 
Nationwide and shes very unhappy with the way they dealt with her request. 
Nationwide say the overdraft limit was reduced as a result of a six-monthly  review  in line with 
their terms  and conditions. They say they use information from credit reference  agencies to 
assess the ongoing suitability of the overdraft, as well as looking at the way the customer is 
managing their account. In Miss Qs case, they say they didnt think  the level of her existing 
overdraft was suitable so they decided to reduce the limit.
They say that, during  Miss Qs call to them, she was told that the reducing  overdraft would  
be shown on her credit file as an arrangement. They say theyre obliged to report accurate 
information to the credit  reference agencies about  the management of the account.  They 
dont think they did anything wrong by setting up the arrangement and reporting it to the 
credit reference agencies. But, as a gesture of goodwill, they removed the arrangement from 
Miss Qs credit  file. 
Nationwide say they sent digital copies of the call recording  to Miss Q and her father  in 
different formats. And that they offered to provide a transcript. They say they couldnt allow 
Miss Q to listen  to the call in branch for security reasons, but theyve paid her compensation 
of £50 for the inconvenience. And theyve paid £50 to Miss Qs father for the delay he 
experienced and the time and effort he put into requesting a copy of the recording.
Miss Q is unhappy with the situation and says it has caused her considerable stress and 
inconvenience. She wants compensation and for Nationwide to acknowledge they made a 
mistake. Our investigator thought that Nationwide  had acted fairly and didnt  ask them  to do 
Ref: DRN00384362any more. But Miss Q didnt agree so she asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
She says that, as a member of the public, she wasnt aware of the implications of something 
being recorded on her credit  file. And she says Nationwides approach is inconsistent 
because, at the same time they reduced her overdraft, they increased her credit card limit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss Q opened her account,  she agreed  to be bound  by Nationwides terms and 
conditions. They say that Nationwide may from time to time make  searches within  
Nationwide, at credit reference  agencies and fraud  prevention agencies where we think it is 
reasonable to do so in order to make decisions regarding credit  (including whether to make  
available or continue or extend existing credit) .
The terms also say All overdrafts are repayable  on demand, but well try to give you 
advance notice before  reducing or withdrawing your overdraft limit, or demanding 
repayment. This means we can ask you to repay it (or part of it) or reduce the limit, at any 
time.
Nationwide say that they looked at Miss Qs overdraft  arrangement  as part of a regular 
review process. Thats in line with their terms and conditions. They say that, as a result of 
that review, they decided  that Miss Qs existing  overdraft  limit was no longer suitable.  Thats  
for them as a business to decide.  As a lender, Id expect them to act responsibly and, based 
on the information available to me, I think their decision to reduce the overdraft  limit was 
reasonable here, as well as being permitted  by the terms and conditions. And I think  they 
gave Miss Q enough notice.
As to the reason  Nationwide gave  in their August letter, it reflects whats  set out above. So I 
think their explanation was reasonable. I dont  have any information about the increase to 
Miss Qs credit  limit which she says she was offered on her credit card around the same 
time. But Im not looking at the credit  card here.  And Im satisfied that Nationwide were  
entitled to reduce the overdraft limit in the way they did. 
As to the reducing overdraft arrangement, Ive listened to the call where that was agreed.  I 
dont think Nationwide  acted unfairly  by setting  up the arrangement. The Nationwide agent  
went through Miss Qs income and expenditure and established that her outgoings were 
more than her income. Miss Q said she was managing with help from relatives. The agent 
gave Miss Q the option of either  paying £10 each month on the basis that the overdraft 
would go down to zero, or paying  £30 each month and keeping the overdraft but at the new 
limit. She said it will show on your credit file as an arrangement. Miss Q said she was 
happy to do that and that she wanted  to try and do the £30 a month arrangement.  
Miss Q says she couldnt be expected to know what it meant for the agreement  to be 
recorded on her credit  file as an arrangement.  Although the agent didnt explain the 
implications, I think it was clear that information about the new arrangement  was going to be 
recorded on Miss Qs credit file. I think its reasonable to say that this should have alerted 
Miss Q that there might be adverse consequences, particularly  in the context of the 
conversation which  had already taken place. 
Ref: DRN00384363But Miss Q says she didnt realise there would be negative consequences.  Its clear from her 
complaint that her credit rating is important to her and that she doesnt want adverse 
information on her credit  file. That being  the case, I think the mention of her credit file at all 
should have given her cause for concern, even if she didnt realise exactly what  the 
implications would be. Im satisfied  she could have asked the agent for more information if 
she didnt know, or was concerned, about  the effect on her credit file. It was a fairly lengthy  
and amicable call so I think the opportunity was there. 
So I dont  think Nationwide acted unfairly in the way they handled the situation. And I think  
they were entitled  to record the arrangement on Miss Qs credit file. But they agreed to 
remove it as a gesture  of goodwill in January 2018.  I think  that was a fair approach.  
Nationwide explained  at the time that it could take up to six weeks  to show up on the credit 
file. I find that to be within the normal  timescale for information to be processed  by the credit 
reference agencies.
Turning to the call recording, the situation  with that is very unfortunate and has caused 
Miss Q a great deal of frustration. But I dont think all the problems were caused by 
Nationwide. Im satisfied  that they sent the recording to Miss Q several times in different 
formats. With digital copies, there  is always a risk that the format wont  work for everyone. 
But I havent seen  anything which suggests there was an inherent  fault with the recording. 
And Miss Q has now been able to listen to it. Nationwide also offered to send Miss Q a 
transcript which I think was a reasonable solution,  although I understand Miss Q declined 
that offer. As to her wasted trip to the branch, I think Nationwides  compensation of £50 was 
a reasonable gesture to recognise the inconvenience of that.
In conclusion, I think Nationwide  were entitled  to reduce the overdraft limit. I dont think they 
did anything wrong  by entering into the arrangement with Miss Q and recording it on her 
credit file. And I dont  think Nationwide  are at fault for all the problems with the call recording. 
But theyve removed the arrangement from Miss Qs credit  file and paid her compensation of 
£50. I think thats a fair resolution here, so Im not going to ask them  to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0038436