K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that American Express Services  Europe  Limited  closed his credit card 
accounts and didnt pay him £422 in respect of cashback hed earned on one of his cards.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 30 March 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mr A accepted my provisional decision.
Amex didnt accept  my provisional decision.  It says it was entitled to close Mr As account 
without notice because  it wasnt  satisfied he had sufficient income to support the level of 
spending he was making on his credit  cards and he was using his cards for a purpose that 
was prohibited under the terms and conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this I dont intend to change 
my decision.
Ive carefully considered  Amexs comments.
The terms and conditions  allowed Amex to close Mr As accounts immediately if it had 
reasonable grounds to believe [he was] unable or unwilling to pay [his] debts when due. It 
says it carried out a review of Mr As finances and wasnt satisfied that his income was 
sufficient to support  his levels  of spending.  But Mr A had made  the payments he needed  to 
make to Amex in full and on time.  Im not persuaded Amex was reasonable entitled to 
conclude that Mr A was unable or unwilling to pay his debts when due without more 
evidence. 
The terms and conditions  would  also have  allowed Amex  to close  the accounts immediately 
if Mr A used  them for illegal activities or in a manner which disguised the true nature  of the 
transaction. Amex  has now provided more information about why it wasnt  happy with the 
way Mr A was using his cards. It says Mr A was purchasing gift cards for resale online and it 
considers this to be a cash transaction.
Im not persuaded Amex is reasonably entitled to say Mr A had disguised the true nature of 
the above transactions. The transactions Mr A made  using his cards  were the purchase of 
the gift cards  which are not treated as cash transactions.  I think the subsequent sales  of the 
gift cards were separate transactions that werent  covered  by the terms and conditions  of the 
cards.
Given the above, Im not satisfied Amex was entitled under the terms and conditions to close  
Mr As accounts immediately and it should have given him the required notice.
Ref: DRN07989372my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision  my final decision is I uphold this 
complaint. I require American  Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr A £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019. 
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN07989373Copy of provisional  decision
background
Mr A used to have four Amex credit  card accounts. He could earn cashback by using his cards which  
would then be credited  to his accounts on an annual  basis.
In July 2018  Amex suspended Mr As cards because it wasnt happy with the way hed been using 
them. At the same  time it wrote to him giving him notice it would  close his accounts  fourteen days 
after service  of the notice.
Mr A complained to Amex and it said it was entitled to suspend the accounts under the terms and 
conditions. It went on to say it would cancel  his credit cards in September 2018 and it did this. Mr A 
wasnt happy with Amexs response to his complaint and he referred  it to this service. He says hes 
entitled to receive the cashback hed earned before his accounts were closed.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Amex had given  Mr A 
sufficient notice to close his accounts.  She also thought the terms and conditions  of them meant he 
would lose any cashback  that hadnt been applied to the accounts before  they were  closed.
Mr A didnt agree  with our adjudicators  recommendation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The terms  and conditions of Mr As cards  said Amex  could cancel  them by giving him at least  two 
months written notice. They  also said Amex could  end the agreements  immediately in certain  
circumstances. Amex  wasnt happy with the way Mr A had been using his cards.  But, as far as Im 
currently aware, it isnt suggesting it was entitled to cancel the cards immediately.  So it needed to give 
Mr A two months notice.
The letters Amex sent to Mr A in July 2018 didnt give him the required notice.  Instead, they told him 
his accounts would be closed in fourteen days. When Amex responded to Mr As complaint it gave 
him a date in September  when his cards would  be cancelled. But that date was less than two months 
after the date of the letters it had sent him July.
Given the above,  Im not currently satisfied Amex gave Mr A the correct notice to close his accounts. I 
dont think this caused Mr A any financial loss because Amex could have closed the accounts in 
September 2018 if it had followed the correct  procedure. But Mr A was caused some trouble and 
upset by this and I currently think that Amex should pay Mr A £200  compensation  for the impact this 
had.
The terms  and conditions say If we close your Card  Account in accordance with the Card  Account 
Agreement, you will lose the Cashback that has been  earned but not yet applied to your Card Account  
as an annual  credit. As Ive said above, Amex didnt exactly follow the correct  procedure to close 
Mr As accounts. But, if it had given  him the correct notice in July 2018 it could have closed the 
accounts in September 2018 only a few days after the accounts were  actually closed.
So Im not currently  persuaded I could  reasonably require  Amex  to pay Mr A the cashback he says 
hed earned before  his cards were cancelled.
Ref: DRN07989374my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties, my provisional decision is 
that I would uphold this complaint in part. I would  require American Express Services Europe Limited 
to pay Mr A £200.
Ref: DRN0798937