K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (Cashplus) provided  poor 
customer service  when  he contacted them for help accessing his online banking.  
background
Mr S was having difficulty accessing his account via the online banking system.  So he called 
Cashplus for assistance. 
Hes told our service  that the adviser  he spoke to was unhelpful  and rude. He asked to 
speak to a manager and was put on hold for a long period of time. He feels the manager was 
obstructive and refused to log a complaint for him. 
Our investigator was able to obtain  the recording of the call. He didnt think  Cashplus had 
been rude, in fact he was satisfied both the adviser and manager had done all they could to 
offer to help Mr S. 
As Mr S disagreed with the investigators view, the case  has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to the call 
recording. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate  this will be a disappointment  to 
Mr S. But I dont agree that Cashplus provided  poor customer service on its call with him. 
I can hear that the adviser offered to go through the online login  process with Mr S whilst on 
the phone  so that he could see what error  Mr S was getting. The adviser further  explained 
that Mr S would need an eight digit security code and he offered to help him obtain one. But 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with this and asked  to speak to a manager. 
When the manager came on the call, he said they were  able to pass Mr S through for an 
enhanced verification process so that he could be given an eight digit security code over the 
phone. This was outside of their usual process,  but was offered to assist  Mr S as he was 
clearly frustrated with the situation. 
I dont think this should have been offered to Mr S sooner;  its reasonable for Cashplus to 
treat Mr S as they would  any other customer by asking him to go through the login  process 
online first. It was only after the call escalated that the manager put forward an alternative 
way forward in order to resolve Mr S complaint.  
I know Mr S is very unhappy  with how the call went but the people  he spoke tried to help him 
resolve the issue. The conversation did become unproductive and the manager  terminated 
the call. I dont think this decision was made lightly and I think  it was reasonable for them to 
do that. 
Ref: DRN08038922my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0803892