K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains he was mis-sold a Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G)  
term assurance policy when he took out his mortgage.
background
Mr W took out a mortgage in 2003. He says he was referred by his estate agent to a firm of 
financial advisers  C  which sold him an L&G term assurance policy. Mr W says he was 
told this cover was necessary to secure  his mortgage.
Some years  later Mr W discovered  the term assurance policy  wasnt compulsory after all. He 
complained to L&G that the policy had been  mis-sold. L&G told Mr W it wasnt responsible  
for the policys sale, just for its administration. It said he should contact C about the sale.
Mr W wasnt happy with this response.  He said C had since  gone into administration,  and 
while the original  advisers  were  still working for another company he couldnt complain to 
them. He said L&G should  take responsibility for the practices of those selling its policies.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ws complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld.  
She agreed  with L&G that the responsibility  for the sale of the policy lay with C, not L&G 
itself. 
Mr W maintained  L&G should  be held to account  for the mis-sale of his term assurance  
policy, and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know itll come as a disappointment to Mr W, Im afraid theres not much  I can add to 
what our investigators already said.
Mr W contends that L&G should be held responsible if his IFA mis-sold one of its policies. I 
dont agree. 
Product providers like L&G may have tied agents  or appointed representatives  who sell its 
policies and for whose actions  L&G will take regulatory and legal responsibility. But thats  not 
the case here.
Mr W was sold his term assurance  policy  by C. This firm wasnt regulated in its own right but 
was an appointed representative of another firm, B, which was regulated. So B agreed to 
take responsibility for certain of Cs actions, including the sale of Mr Ws policy.
On the other hand, L&G had no connection to C that Im aware  of. Nor did it say it would 
take responsibility for Cs actions.
Mr W has referred to his adviser as a Legal and General sales  person and as L&Gs  sales 
representatives. But I dont think thats  an accurate description. C was an IFA firm selling 
many different products from different providers. It wasnt an agent  or representative of L&G, 
but had its own regulatory oversight through its principal firm, B.
Ref: DRN04213222That being  the case I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold L&G to account  for the 
way C sold the policy. L&G didnt agree to take responsibility for it, and theres no regulatory  
requirement for it to have  done so. B, however, did agree to responsibility  for Cs actions, 
and so its that firm that Mr W should rightly  pursue  if he considers his term assurance policy 
to have been mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0421322