K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 to 
cover a credit card Mrs N took out in 1997. Mrs N says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs N says that she wasnt aware  that she had PPI, and that it wasnt  discussed with 
her. Mrs N applied for her credit card through  the post in 1997 and Barclays  has supplied  
a copy of her application  form.  I can see that the PPI is presented as optional   and at 
this time, I can see that Mrs N declined the cover.  
Barclays has provided information that shows that Mrs N was sold her PPI policy  during 
an inbound phone call in 2003. Theres no recording available, so I cant know  what was 
said during the call, but this isnt surprising for a sale that took place in 2003  and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. But as Mrs N had use of her card 
for over six years at this point, I think she wouldve known that she didnt have  to have 
the PPI, and that and she chose to take it out  although I can understand if she cant 
remember this as it was so long ago.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs N so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs N about the PPI, including  its ongoing 
cost wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
she wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it could have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs N because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs N about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN05829052Ive thought about everything Mrs N has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs N any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0582905