K820x#14complaint
Mrs C said that Barclays  charges are highly  disproportionate and have been a key factor  in 
her having  to increase her overdraft to pay higher bank charges every  month.  And that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt supported her to get back on top of her finances. 
background
This complaint refers  to Mr and Mrs C. As the complaint has been brought  by Mrs C I will 
refer to Mrs C in my decision. 
Mrs C said that shed  been through redundancy and ill health  and due to bank charges shes 
living at the very end of her overdraft. She said she doesnt live an extravagant lifestyle but 
finds it difficult to keep  her head above water. Shes  frequently had to exceed her overdraft 
limit. Shes regularly had payments returned.  And often has insufficient funds to cover  direct 
debits or standing orders. These events attract bank charges which she said cause her 
financial hardship. 
Mrs C complained to Barclays. She wanted the charges refunded.  Barclays said that any 
charges are applied in line with the terms and conditions Mrs C agreed to when opening the 
account. As Mrs C didnt agree with Barclays decision she brought  a complaint to our 
service. Barclays  provided a number of letters  that it had sent to Mrs C between 2012 and 
2019 asking her to either contact them or debt advice services for assistance  managing  her 
debt. Mrs C said that shed not received the letters  from Barclays.
An investigator with our service looked into Mrs Cs complaint. And found that Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong.  Mrs C didnt  agree with the investigators  findings. So the 
matter was sent to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence  Ive 
decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I know Mrs C will be disappointed but I wont be 
asking Barclays to do any more.  Ill explain why. 
Between 2012 and 2018 Mrs Cs account balance  was in general between  £2,000  in credit 
to £5,800 in debit. The account has not held a positive balance  since  September 2017. The 
negative balance has increased gradually as the spending on the account is consistently 
more than the credits  to the account.  There are over 1,000 pages of statements so I wont go 
into every  months balance. These figures  give a general idea of the balance.  There are 
regular monthly credits to the account  which appear to be salary payments. 
Between 2012 and 2019 Barclays  sent Mrs C six Financial  Assistance Letters, 43 Returned 
Item Letters,  three Guarantee Item Letters and one Reserve Letter  including  an offer for 
assistance. Ive read a selection of these  letters.  The letters offer Mrs C an opportunity  to 
speak to Barclays on the phone or visit them in branch for assistance managing her debt. 
The letters also provide  phone numbers for National Debtline,  StepChange Debt  Charity  and 
a website address  for Citizens Advice so Mrs C can locate her local service. 
Ref: DRN02709802Mrs C said that she didnt  receive these letters. Whilst  I accept there can be issues  with the 
post its more likely than not that Mrs C received  at least some  of the letters.  I have also seen  
an entry  in Barclays account notes that they tried to give Mrs C financial advice and details 
of the National  Debtline over the phone  but Mrs C could not take the details as she was 
driving. 
Credit providers are expected to act fairly towards a consumer in financial  hardship. Ive 
reviewed the charges  and the terms and conditions of the account. The charges  applied by 
Barclays dont breach the account terms and conditions. Although  the charges wont  have 
helped Mrs C, Barclays have done  what I would have expected them  to do in the 
circumstances. On a number of occasions Barclays have  refunded  charges to Mrs C on 
compassionate grounds. 
The standards of Lending  Practice  state  that Firms should demonstrate  an empathetic 
approach to the customers situation,  listening to and acting upon information provided by 
the customer with a view to developing an affordable and appropriate solution.
The first thing Id expect the credit provider to do is listen to the customer about  their 
situation and discuss what help is appropriate. It would be a good idea for Mrs C to contact 
Barclays and take advantage of the assistance  they have offered, to help her with her debt 
and financial  management.  Mrs C also has the option of contacting  the National Debtline, 
StepChange Debt Charity  or her local Citizens  Advice  Service  if she wishes  to do so. 
Essentially Mrs Cs case is that Barclays charges have caused  her situation. Having 
reviewed Mrs Cs account there are several  examples of spending that have had a bearing 
on her financial situation. Charges  have been  a factor  in increasing her debt but several 
other things  such as holidays have had a much greater contribution  than the charges. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0270980