K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by a different business, St Andrews Insurance  Plc has 
accepted responsibility for the sale and it has dealt with the complaint. So, to keep things  
simpler, from now on Ill just refer to St Andrews as the seller.
background
This complaint is about PPI that Mrs P took out in October 2003 to protect  her mortgage 
monthly repayments. Mrs P applied  for the cover by post and paid to have the policy each 
month. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs Ps main complaint  is that shed told the advisor when arranging her mortgage  that she 
didnt want PPI so she was unaware  that she had it. She told us that when she later signed  
paperwork sent to her in the post she thought shed had to do that as thats what the advisor 
had said. Mrs P says shes unhappy that shes been  charged  for a product that she told us 
she never asked for and didnt need.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps mortgage was already set up when she took out PPI. So I think  she wouldve been  
aware at the time that PPI was an optional extra. And it was up to her to apply  for it if she 
wanted to have the benefit of PPI.
St Andrews  sent Mrs P the Mortgage  Repayments Cover Acceptance Form showing 
details of the PPI. Mrs P completed this by filling in her bank details and instructing her bank 
to pay the monthly  PPI premiums. 
St Andrews  then sent Mrs P a welcome  letter shortly afterwards which said: 
We are delighted to welcome you as a new policyholder  of Mortgage Repayments Cover.
This letter set out details  of the cover  shed taken out. It also said in bold print: You have 30 
days from the start date of your policy in which to change  your  mind.
The letter is correctly addressed. So I think Mrs P wouldve been able to see the cover shed 
taken out  and she wouldve been  aware  that she didnt  have  to have PPI if it wasnt 
something she wanted. The letter clearly stated that she couldve cancelled the policy  free of 
charge. 
Ref: DRN04961602Its completely understandable if Mrs P has now forgotten some  of these details  this 
happened a long time ago. But I think its fair to say that Mrs P couldve queried the PPI then 
if this wasnt something she had wanted. And, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that 
happened.
It appears shed changed  her mind about having PPI and decided  she wanted  it after all. 
And I can understand why. Mrs Ps mortgage  was a big financial commitment,  due to run for 
a long period of time. Her home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided a dependable  means of ensuring her monthly mortgage 
repayments were protected even if she couldnt  work. So, I can see why Mrs P mightve  felt 
PPI was useful. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mrs P has simply now forgotten  that at the time she 
wanted to have the benefits and security  of having  PPI and it was added to her account 
when she applied for it  knowing  it was optional.   
St Andrews  had to give Mrs P enough  clear information about the policy so that she could 
decide if it was right for her. 
Mrs P was eligible for the PPI. Ive taken into account that Mrs P told us she had at least  
12 months sick pay through work.  
But the PPI wouldve paid out for longer - up to 24 months  each time in the event of a 
successful claim  for accident  or sickness. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ps 
work benefits. So I think it couldve been a useful benefit if Mrs P had needed to claim  
especially if she mightve had extra costs as a result  of being  off work sick or too disabled  to 
work. 
It also covered Mrs P for up to 24 months  per claim if she lost her job unexpectedly and 
became unemployed. Repeat  claims were  possible giving  Mrs P long term cover  whilst she 
was paying the mortgage. 
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs P if she was off work  sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mrs P had some savings. But there was no guarantee when she 
took out this mortgage that she would always  have  savings  to rely on. Having PPI also 
meant that Mrs P could  keep any savings secure in the long term as she wouldnt have been 
forced to use this money to pay the mortgage  if she wasnt  able to work. 
So, I think the PPI offered  Mrs P valuable benefits  in her particular circumstances.
I cant see that Mrs P was affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the policy.  
So I dont  think she needed better  information about  these things  or that if shed known 
more about what  the policy didnt cover  it wouldve put her off taking it out. 
The cost of the policy was shown in the welcome  letter sent to her and Mrs P couldve 
queried it then if she decided this wasnt something she wanted to pay for. But, from what 
Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened. 
Ref: DRN04961603Ive kept in mind  also that Mrs P couldve cancelled within 30 days  without having to pay 
anything if she didnt  want to pay the amount of the monthly premiums. 
She had signed  an instruction form to her bank to cover the policy cost. Mrs Ps mortgage 
monthly repayment arrangements were already set up. And she wouldve been  able to see 
that the direct debit  mandate on the Mortgage  Repayments Cover Acceptance Form was 
only for PPI.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy wasnt affordable for her. It looks like she took out 
some additional  benefit to cover other  mortgage related costs as well as her monthly  
mortgage repayments. So Mrs P seems  to have been happy to pay the monthly  premiums  
for the benefits  she wanted at the time.
 
As she was paying  for the policy  monthly,  she could cancel it at any time without further  cost,  
if her circumstances changed or she no longer  wanted it.
I dont know if St Andrews explained  everything  as clearly as it shouldve done. But I think  it 
unlikely Mrs P wouldve  made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance, given  what shes  told us about her circumstances and looking at the benefits 
PPI offered  her, I think Mrs P still wouldve taken  out the policy. 
This means  I dont  find that Mrs P has lost out because of anything  St Andrews did wrong. 
So, it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN0496160