K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that esure Insurance Limited  (esure) took too long to repair her car after it 
was involved in an accident. She has said she felt the damage to the car was extensive and 
so it should have been declared a total loss.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Es complaint. I invited both parties to let me 
have anything in response they thought  was relevant.
Neither party responded with any comments.
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add I dont  see any reason to depart from the 
findings already  laid out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold Mrs Es complaint about  esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman 
complaint
Mrs E complains that esure Insurance Limited  (esure)  took too long to repair  her car after it was 
involved in an accident. She has said she felt the damage to the car was extensive and
so it should have  been  declared  a total loss.
background
Mrs Es car was damaged  in an accident on 23 November 2017. esure  arranged for the car
to be assessed at its recommended repairer. When the car was delivered to the garage,  the
next day, there was some  confusion  whether  Mrs E was going to go ahead with the claim
through esure and so the garage were under the impression the car was going  to be
collected and taken to a different garage. The car wasnt collected, and six days later Mrs E
confirmed the claim would be going through esure after all. Because of this the garage didnt
start to assess the damage  until one week after the accident had taken place.
Ref: DRN00499412At the time of the accident Mrs Es car had some damage to it that was unrelated to the
accident, she was aware of this and it wasnt included  in the estimate for repairs.
In total, it took three weeks for esures  engineers to assess the garages estimate and decide
that the car was going to be repaired.
Repairs started on Mrs Es car in December 2017, and it was initially thought that the
completion date would be sometime in January 2018.  The garage had some difficulty  in
getting some  of the parts  needed to complete  the repair  as the manufacturer  was out of
stock and so they were  on back order. Most of these parts were  delivered throughout the
month with the final parts arriving through February 2018.
When the seat was fitted into the car the SRS light needed to be reset. The SRS light is
there to show  that the airbags are working  correctly  and there  are no faults. There was also
a problem with the heated seat. Both of these  matters needed to be dealt with by the main
dealer and the car was booked  in for this on 20 February 2018. However, this had to be
postponed because of a problem getting the car there and so was rebooked  for 23 February
2018.
Between 23 February 2018 and 27 March 2018,  when  the car repairs were  completed at the
main dealer, there is limited information about what was happening. But its recorded  that the
car did go to the main dealer  three times in this time. This was to have the issues noted
above dealt with and to have  a warranty  repair  to the ABS sensor  completed.
Mrs E complained to esure as she was upset that the repairs were taking so long.  esure
agreed the repair was taking a long time but explained that the delays were unavoidable  due
to the parts having been  unavailable. But it did recognise that it had caused the delays at the
start when it took three  weeks to decide whether it would  repair the car. So, for that, it paid
Mrs E £100 in compensation.
Mrs Es car was ready on 27 March  2018. The garage offered to repair  the non-accident
related damage  for Mrs E as a gesture of goodwill  because it had taken  so long for the car to
be repaired.
When Mrs E collected her car she was upset to find that the car had been driven 70 miles
while it had been in the garage for repairs  and she contacted  esure about this. esure didnt
respond initially but when it did it said that the miles were due to the garage having  to drive
the car to and from the main dealer and also to complete the few ten mile road tests the
main dealer recommended checking the sensors were working properly following the resets.
The garage  did, however,  top her fuel up before returning the car to her. And esure  paid
Mrs E £50 to recognise  that it hadnt responded to her complaint when she first raised it.
Mrs E was unhappy  with this explanation and so brought her complaint  to us, she said that
she felt esure shouldve declared  her car a total loss rather than repairing  it.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint; she said that the delays once the repair had
been agreed  were outside  of esures control. She did feel its service couldve been better but
felt the £150 it had already compensated Mrs E with was reasonable. The investigator didnt
comment on esures  decision to repair the car rather than declare it a total loss.
Mrs E didnt agree  with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres a dispute about what
Ref: DRN00499413happened, Ive based my provisional decision on what I thinks most likely  to have happened
in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues  have been raised, this provisional decision  only addresses
those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given
careful consideration  to all of the submissions  made before  arriving at my provisional
decision.
Having done so, I must  tell Mrs E that I have reached the same conclusions as the
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. My findings differ from the investigators only
in that I have  looked into esures  decision to repair  the car rather  than declaring  it a total
loss. Even so, Im not intending to uphold Mrs Es complaint in this matter either. Ill explain
why.
In section two of the policy   Damage to your car it says:
What is covered
For loss or damage to your car other than by fire, lightning, explosion, theft or
attempted theft, we will:
 pay to have the damage repaired
 replace what  is lost or damaged if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; or
 settle  your claim by a monetary payment.
We will decide  which  of these methods we will use to settle  your claim.
This term allows esure to decide how the claim  is dealt with, even if this is down to cost
alone. That being said, we would only expect esure to repair a car if its safe to do so. esure
has confirmed that, although it did consider declaring the car a total loss in the early  stages
of the claim this was only based on cost,  and there was never any concern that the car
wouldnt be roadworthy. So Im satisfied that it was able to choose  to repair  the car even
though this wasnt  necessarily what Mrs E wouldve chosen to do. Notwithstanding this, I
wouldve expected  it to reach  the decision to repair  the car sooner than it did, but think the
compensation of £150 it awarded for this is fair in the circumstances.
In regards to the delays with the repairs, Im satisfied that these were  out of esures  control,
as it has provided  evidence to show the parts were on order and that waiting for these  parts
held up the repairs to the car.
Mrs E was concerned  with the wear and tear to her car with the increased mileage  that was
added to it, but I think  that these miles were necessary as the car needed to go to the main
dealer to have  the warranty repairs completed and, as it was driveable,  I dont think its
reasonable to expect  it to have been transported there. However, I think esure couldve
explained this to Mrs E in advance  so she knew to expect the extra mileage on her car.
So, while I agree that there were things esure couldve done better,  I think the compensation
it has already awarded is reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what I would
expect.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im not currently intending to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN0049941