K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that instead of taking  out a personal loan, he was given a payday loan from 
Active Securities Limited trading  as 247 Moneybox.
Mr H wants 247 Moneybox  to remove the loan from his credit file and pay him 
compensation.
background
Mr H says that he asked  a credit broker to find a personal loan but instead  he was referred  
to 247 Moneybox for a payday  loan.
Mr H immediately told 247 Moneybox that he didnt want a payday loan. It explained to him 
that the loan funds had already  left 247 Moneyboxs  account so Mr H would need to make  
an early payment using  the online service.
After Mr H did this, he was unhappy  at having to pay an extra  amount and wanted a 
reassurance from 247 Moneybox that the loan wouldnt appear on his credit file.
Mr H says that 247 Moneybox ignored his emails until early  April 2018 when it offered to 
refund interest  and remove the loan from his credit file.
Mr H told 247 Moneybox that he only signed  the electronic loan agreement as it gave £60 as 
an example of the loan amount subject to confirmation. Mr H says he thought  this meant  he 
was still applying for the much larger loan.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld.  She didnt think  that it 
was wrong of 247 Moneybox to agree to lend. The adjudicator  said that if Mr H thought that 
the loan had been mis-sold, he should  complain to the broker that arranged it.
The adjudicator said that although 247 Moneybox  couldve  responded to Mr Hs complaint 
more quickly, she couldnt see that this caused  any loss to Mr H. The adjudicator also 
pointed out that 247 Moneybox sent a final response to Mr H within  the eight week period  
that it shouldve.  
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation. He explained that the loan still 
appeared on his credit  file and that this had affected  his ability to secure credit elsewhere.
Mr H said that one lender  raised the interest charge on a loan by 20% after a manual 
underwriter check. Mr H said that another lender declined his loan application because hed 
taken out a payday loan within  the previous six months.
The adjudicator didnt initially recommend that 247 Moneybox compensate  Mr H for any 
delays dealing with this complaint. But as 247 Moneybox didnt respond to the adjudicators 
assessment letter for some time,  she recommended that it pay something to reflect the 
inconvenience caused 
247 Moneybox offered  to pay £50 to apologise for any inconvenience that the delay  
responding to the assessment letter has caused  to Mr H. The adjudicator considers this offer 
to be fair but Mr H hasnt  said whether he accepts it or not.
Ref: DRN04030452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is unhappy that 247 Moneybox  gave him a £60 payday loan when he thought he was 
going to receive  a £5,000  loan. Mr H has sent us a screenshot  of the text message that he 
received from 247 Moneybox on 23 February 2018. This text says that Mr Hs broker sent 
247 Moneybox a £5,000 loan application and asks him to confirm his details via an online 
link.
I appreciate that Mr H feels this text was misleading but I also keep in mind  that he went  on 
to sign a loan agreement that set out the actual terms of the loan that 247 Moneybox offered. 
It looks as though Mr H clicked the I accept on the loan agreement in the evening of 23 
February 2018. The agreement says that Mr H will either be provided with £60 or £20 
depending on whether 247 Moneybox could verify his main  source of income. 
I wouldve  reasonably  expected Mr H to query the terms  with 247 Moneybox before signing 
the agreement  if he still thought he was borrowing £5,000. 
Even if I was to say that 247 Moneyboxs  text message misled Mr H into taking  out the loan, 
I wouldnt require 247 Moneybox to do more than it has agreed.  I dont have enough 
evidence to suggest that the reason that Mr Hs other credit application was declined  or the 
interest rate increased was solely because of the 247 Moneybox loan. A lender will take 
account of a number of factors when  assessing loan applications. 
Once Mr H realised that hed taken  out a payday loan he contacted  247 Moneybox who told 
him how to repay the loan early.  Mr H followed this up by asking 247 Moneybox  to make 
sure the loan didnt  appear on his credit file.
Im satisfied that 247 Moneybox later offered to refund  the interest Mr H paid and remove the 
loan from his credit file. Mr H didnt accept the offers so I cant  say that 247 Moneybox  was 
wrong not to action  the removal at the time. 
I appreciate that Mr H has concerns about the way that 247 Moneybox treats  vulnerable 
customers and he would  like us to do something  about this. This service  isnt a regulator   
that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority or the Information Commissioners Office. 
My role is to consider whether 247 Moneybox has done and offered  enough  to put things 
right.  
I agree  that 247 Moneyboxs offer to pay £50 compensation is fair. It should  also make sure 
that the loan is removed  from Mr Hs credit  file if it hasnt already  done so and refund the 
interest that he has paid.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in the sense that I consider Active 
Securities Limited trading  as 247 Moneybox has already offered to do enough.  247 
Moneybox should take the following steps as agreed:
remove the loan from Mr Hs credit  file (if it hasnt already done  so);
Ref: DRN04030453refund  the additional interest  that Mr H paid on the loan; and
 pay £50 compensation to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0403045