K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Scotland plc T/A Halifax  (Halifax) wont let him access the 
money hes transferred  from his Norwegian bank account to his Halifax  account   to pay the 
funds required in order for his house  purchase to complete. He wants to be able to use the 
account and transfer the money  to his solicitor. 
background
Mr A holds funds in a Norwegian bank account.  He also has a UK account with Halifax, and 
as he wanted  to move to a new property in the UK he needed to transfer some funds from 
the Norwegian bank to the account with Halifax. When  he tried to complete the transfer  at 
the end of January 2018 Halifax said he would need to confirm  his identity as there was a 
block on making withdrawals from the account.  Halifax also said it would need to make some 
further enquiries about his proof  of entitlement to the money with the other bank. 
Mr A complained. He said he needed  the money to complete  a house purchase and hed 
lose the property  if he couldnt pay his solicitor  soon. He thought hed provided the 
necessary verification and couldnt  understand why his funds couldnt be released. 
Subsequently Mr A checked on a number  of occasions if the block  on the account  had been  
released, but Halifax confirmed it would only do so when  it got a satisfactory  response  from 
the Norwegian bank.  
By 23 February 2018 Halifax had completed  its investigations and unblocked Mr As 
account.  But by then Mr A says his property purchase had fallen  through  and he couldnt  
move  although he still had to pay a significant  amount  of legal fees.  Unhappy  with the 
outcome he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
he was satisfied with the explanation Halifax gave about why it put a block on Mr As account 
in 2016, and had seen  evidence that Halifax made a number of attempts to get Mr A to verify  
his identity. He also said he thought  it was reasonable for Halifax to take the measures it did 
and to ask the other bank for proof  of Mr As entitlement to the funds.  So he didnt think 
Halifax had acted unfairly.   
Mr A disagreed. He said hed bought  his previous  property using money hed transferred 
from his Norwegian bank to a UK bank account.  So he couldnt understand why Halifax  
couldnt do it on this occasion. He also disputed  being  contacted by Halifax  to verify  his 
identity in 2016. 
As Mr A didnt agree  the complaint has been  passed to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr A is frustrated  that his house 
purchase fell through and he incurred legal expenses as a result. And I have some sympathy 
for his position here. But I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong  which I know  will 
disappoint Mr A  so Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN04793312Halifax has said that  because there  were  inconsistencies in the information Mr A had 
previously given to Lloyds and Halifax about  his accounts, and because  theyre  part of the 
same banking group, it needed to confirm Mr As identity. And Ive listened to a number of 
calls Halifax  made  to Mr A in 2016 when it made  him aware of what  he needed to do. But 
Mr A didnt provide  the necessary proof  of identity  even when he went into a branch to 
make a deposit into the account in 2017. So I think its reasonable that when Mr A wanted to 
transfer money in 2018 Halifax needed  to complete that part of its process - which hadnt 
been satisfied  previously.  I dont think Halifax did anything wrong there  and Mr A could have 
avoided that situation by providing proof of identity anytime in the previous two years  as 
requested. 
In any case Mr A was able to provide the necessary proof quite quickly  but Halifax  decided  
to make further checks to confirm his entitlement to the money  he wanted to transfer. This 
involved dealing with the Norwegian Bank. Im satisfied that Halifax did make those enquiries 
and released the block  on Mr As account when it received a satisfactory response.  So I 
cant safely say Halifax caused any delay here.  
Mr A says Halifaxs  actions led to his property  purchase falling through and this cost him a 
significant amount  in legal fees.  Ultimately  here though  although I appreciate Mr As 
frustration at the situation  Im satisfied Halifax took reasonable measures  when it blocked  
his account for withdrawals through its fraud  prevention  measures. Its understandable that 
from time to time transactions will be subject to additional  checks  and it isnt unusual  for this 
to happen. Its not for this service  to tell a business how to use its fraud prevention 
processes but the blocking of an account  is something a bank is entitled to do if it has 
concerns  so I cant safely say Halifax did anything wrong in blocking Mr As account for the 
period that it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0479331