K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained about Calpe Insurance Company  Limited. She isnt happy that it 
wouldnt deal with a claim under  her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs Gs daughter was a named driver on her policy and was involved in an accident in May 
2018. Calpe  considered the claim and initially asked for the excess payment (£3,000)  as it 
deemed Mrs Gs daughter to be at fault.
But it went onto to request  all costs incurred. This was because  it said the named driver was 
band from driving at the time of the accident  in May 2018. As Mrs G and her daughter didnt 
agree they complained to Calpe and then this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for them  and upheld the complaint. Although he accepted 
that Calpe  hadnt acted  unreasonably in relation to deciding liability, he didnt think it had 
acted reasonably in turning down the claim.  Although  he acknowledged that the named 
driver had been stopped in relation to an allegation surrounding drink driving it was clear  that 
the actual conviction, and driving ban, took place the following month.  So he asked  Calpe to 
deal with the claim and to pay £200 compensation for the clear trouble and stress caused.
As Calpe didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Although I can understand why Calpe had concerns  about whether the named driver  was 
banned from driving or not it is clear that she wasnt. Its concerns  seem to stem from its own 
investigator who interviewed the named  driver.  
However, it is clear from the documentation from the court  and from a check of the driving 
licence that Mrs Gs daughter was banned from driving on 12 June 2018. So the named 
driver was free to drive  until that time and the accident took place in May 2018.  I note the 
named driver did try and tell her broker about the fact that she had been stopped in April 
2018. I know that Calpe says it hasnt  got any evidence of this, but she wasnt  obligated to 
do this in any event.  Obviously, this changed  when she was banned from driving by the court 
on 12 June 2018.
Given the clear information available to Calpe I dont understand why it wont accept the 
position now or, at the very least, undertake further  enquiries to confirm the position. And all 
this has caused  a great deal of stress and inconvenience to Mrs G and the named  driver so I 
agree that it should pay them £200  compensation.
Finally, I note that Mrs G and the named driver  disputed liability about  the accident.  But as 
there were two independent witnesses from the time of the accident that suggested she was 
at fault I dont think Calpe has done anything wrong  in deciding liability the way it has.
Ref: DRN08196912my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited  to deal with the claim in full and only charge Mrs G her excess  payment. 
And to pay her £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0819691