K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card in 1996. 
A company called Financial Insurance Company Limited is responsible for complaints about 
these sales. Ill therefore refer to FICL  throughout this final decision.  
background
Mrs R says she doesnt remember  having  the PPI explained and she didnt need or want  it.
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. Mrs R 
disagreed and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Id like to say that I certainly  dont doubt that Mrs Rs assertions about  being mis-sold the PPI 
are honest  and genuine. But given  it was some 23 years ago, it isnt particularly unusual  that 
we now have very sparse information still available and businesses  arent  required to keep 
records indefinitely. However  FICL  says its records indicate this PPI was sold over the 
telephone.
Weve seen quite  a few similar  complaints  to this and weve asked to see examples of the 
documentation that call-handlers would have used  when speaking  with consumers at the 
time. Based on that knowledge,  we do think that consumers with these types  of store  cards  
would have usually  had to make a choice about either having,  or not having, PPI with them.
Theres no dispute that Mrs R did go on to get the PPI so I think  its more  likely she agreed  
to buy the cover during the call.
I also see that Mrs R did eventually get charged  quite a few times, over several months, for 
PPI. I think  her monthly statements would have  shown  these up and if she hadnt  wanted the 
cover, I think she would have been  prompted to ask about the costs.
So Im afraid  I think these things, taken  together, make me think its more likely Mrs R 
agreed to add the PPI policy to her store card, back in 1996 and she kept it on the card for a 
while after that.
My general experience  is that FICL provided a non-advised sale.  This means  it needed only 
to provide enough clear information for Mrs R to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. I cant say FICL  did everything  right. But weve got so little information  available  to us 
now which would alter my decision.
I say this because  Mrs R looks  like she was eligible for the cover  and not caught  by any of 
the major  exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered 
was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave  more  protection  than most 
Ref: DRN05359302credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work  or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been  in addition to any 
other means  Mrs R had in place  at the time.
So I think the PPI policy was something  that could have been of use in her situation. 
For me to uphold Mrs Rs complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or couldnt see she had PPI. The evidence, although marginal, points the other  
way. So I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint and I dont require 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0535930