K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system meant he was unable to access  
his current and savings  accounts. He is also unhappy about TSBs customer service when 
trying to resolve the matter.
background 
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. Mr B has told us that, as a 
result, he was unable  to access  his account  for between four and five weeks. 
Mr B has told us that he normally checks his account balance  several  times a day, and not 
being able to do so was stressful  and frustrating. He has also told us that the stress and 
worry exacerbated an ongoing  health  condition, and led to insomnia.
Mr B has explained that he was unable to make payments to family members,  as he 
wouldve normally done. He was worried about  his direct debits being processed correctly,  
although it seems they were paid. He also felt unable to use his debit card during this time, 
as he couldnt  confirm his salary  had been  paid (despite  reassurances from his employer).
Mr B has told us that he relied on funds from his parents to help him manage  financially 
during this period. He has also said it didnt occur  to him to check his account  balance 
through another source,  such as an ATM, and he wasnt  able to go into a branch due to his 
working hours.
Mr B has told us that he feels very frustrated by TSBs response and the customer  service 
he has experienced. He has specifically mentioned poor communication and the premature 
closure of his complaint. Mr B has also has told us he spent a significant amount of time on 
the phone  attempting to contact TSB, which was inconvenient and stressful.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator agreed that Mr B had suffered 
trouble and upset  as a result of TSBs failings in this matter and recommended  
compensation of £300 to address all the concerns raised. Mr B didnt  think  this sum was 
sufficient, so a second  investigator took another look at his complaint. 
The second  Investigator  agreed that £300  was the right compensation for TSB to pay Mr B. 
TSB accepted our investigators findings,  but Mr B requested a decision from an 
ombudsman. As such, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigators.
Firstly, Ive considered whether Mr B suffered any financial loss as a result  of the issues 
described above. My understanding is that he didnt. Our Investigator  has checked to make 
sure he isnt out of pocket  for the phone calls he had to make  to TSB, and Mr B has 
confirmed that he hasnt been  charged  for these.
However, the key points  for Mr B are the worry  and stress he has experienced as a result of 
what went wrong. So Ive thought about  this carefully too.
Ref: DRN06853912I can understand that not having access to his accounts was inconvenient and upsetting for 
Mr B, and I agree he is entitled to compensation for this. And, possibly due to his health 
condition, I can see that this had a greater  impact on him than it mightve  done  on some 
other customers. So I accept Mr B has genuinely suffered significant worry and 
inconvenience. I also accept that Mr B didnt receive the level of customer  service he 
expected when he raised his concerns with TSB.
However, having reviewed all the evidence available,  I agree with our investigators  that £300  
is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to address these issues.  This decision has 
been reached having carefully considered all available  evidence in this specific case, and in 
the context of a wider  understanding of the amount of compensation we would typically 
award in cases of a similar nature.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If TSB Bank plc has not already  done so, it 
should pay Mr N £300 for the trouble and upset hes experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0685391