complaint
Mr R complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (Halifax) is holding him responsible  for a loan 
he says he didnt apply for and a number of transactions he says were  carried  out 
fraudulently on his credit card.
background
Mr R says he opened a number of accounts with online betting companies  at the 
recommendation of a friend to take advantage  of the free bets that were available.  
However, by the end of February 2016,  he says hed decided  that betting wasnt  for 
him. So Mr R says that, from this point onwards, he had no need to check his personal 
bank accounts  as only the normal monthly transactions  would be taking place.
Mr R says this is why it wasnt  until July 2016  when he realised there  had been  fraud  on 
his accounts.  And he says he only checked  his accounts in July 2016 because  he 
received a message from another bank, B, to let him know  that he didnt have enough 
money to cover certain transactions. He says he looked at his account online later that day 
and discovered  that fraud had occurred on his current accounts with B and Halifax  and his 
credit cards.
Mr R says that he hasnt  given anyone access to his accounts.  Hes already made 
a complaint to B and this has been  dealt with separately.
Mr Rs complaint against Halifax falls into two main  areas. Firstly  that Halifax is 
holding him responsible for:
-92 fraudulent transactions on his Halifax  credit  card - made between April and July
2016 totalling just under £34,700. Mr R says Halifax  shouldve noticed that these 
were unusual transactions.
-a loan - Mr R says Halifax  approved a loan for £5,000  in June 2016 after two 
earlier failed  applications around a fortnight earlier. But he didnt make these 
applications and wants to know why the first two applications were refused but 
the final one was approved. He thinks the failed applications  shouldve  alerted 
Halifax to fraud.
Secondly, Mr R complains that Halifax has failed to properly investigate his case, 
protect him against  fraud  and request  chargebacks to recover the payments.
When Mr R complained to Halifax, it did not uphold his complaint.  It said that based  on 
the evidence it held, it was unable to support his claim that the transactions  and loan 
were fraudulent. It explained this was for a number  of reasons, including:
-A significant number of the disputed transactions were transfers between Mr Rs 
account with Halifax and credit cards  and current accounts  in his name. A lot of these 
transactions use his name as a reference.
-The balance transfer on Mr Rs credit card has been traced to a credit card held in 
his name with another company.
-It would expect  a fraudster to target all accounts  they have access  to through a 
banking app. But Mr Rs joint account had generally been running in the normal way.
-The personal details on the loan application  match Mr Rs and it was electronically 
signed for using  his online banking password. It was paid into Mr Rs Halifax  current 
account and then transferred into accounts  in his name,  including  his credit card.
-A lot of the transactions  on Mr Rs credit card are to online gambling  sites. Halifax  says 
its contacted  those sites who confirmed that Mr Rs details registered with them match 
Ref: DRN0776082those held by Halifax. The sites have also said that Mr R gave identification so that 
winnings could be distributed  to him in July 2016. The winnings were  then paid to
Mr Rs account with B and letters and emails were sent to Mr R to confirm this.
-Mr Rs accounts  were reviewed regularly using  the online banking  and the mobile  
banking app. So it doesnt understand why it wouldve taken Mr R a number of months 
to report the fraud. And it says this was done  using three IP addresses  which  were 
used by Mr R before the fraud  allegation  was made.
Halifax did agree  it had provided Mr R with poor service and there was a delay in contacting 
him so it paid £225 to compensate him for this.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service.  He raises a number of explanations about  
how this fraud might  have  occurred  including the following points.
-Cyber-hacking fraud has become increasingly common.
-He believes his laptop had been taken over by malware.
-Hes sent us articles about  how fraudsters gain access to devices and reports  about 
security breaches of well know email account  providers and banks.
-A text message was sent from his old device to a number  he doesnt recognise  and 
this might  be how the fraudster took over his device and accounts.
-The mobile  device used for these transactions wasnt  in his possession  at the time of 
the disputed transactions. Mr R says the device used  to make  these transactions and 
apply for the loan was the same device hed used in 2015. But this was handed  back to 
the phone provider in March  2016  as it couldnt be repaired. He says he cleared the 
device of all his personal  data before handing it in. He also says he transferred all the 
information to his laptop  and then to his new phone.
Halifax told Mr R that no evidence of malware being  used to access  his online banking has 
been found. It says the articles  about the breaches of the email address providers security 
systems relate to an event  in 2014  and state that all customers  affected  were notified by the 
email address providers  in question.
Our adjudicator looked into this matter and felt Halifax had fully investigated Mr Rs claim. 
She agreed  with the banks findings and agreed  that what had happened didnt fit the 
pattern of a normal fraudster. So she didnt recommend Halifax  refund any money to Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree with this and so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules  of our service  mean that I have to determine this complaint by reference  to what
I consider  to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  When  considering 
whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where  appropriate  what  I 
consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant time.
Where there are gaps  in the evidence, for whatever reason, I will decide  what I think  is 
most likely to have happened   having  regard  to all the circumstances.
I asked for further submissions from both Mr R and Halifax before making  this final 
decision.  Mr R responded but Halifax had nothing further to add.  I can confirm that I 
have taken account of Mr Rs submissions to me  and everything else he has told this 
Ref: DRN0776082service since bringing his complaint to us.  However, I dont think  these change  my 
decision.
Generally speaking, Halifax can hold Mr R liable for the disputed transactions  if the 
evidence suggests  thats its more likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  
But the relevant regulations say that for Mr R to have authorised the transactions, he 
needed to have  consented to them too.
The relevant  regulations  which apply  to this case are the Payment Service Regulations
2009. These explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised  if the 
payer consented to it. And where  there is credit  involved  such  as in this case  the PSRs 
make provision for the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  to apply in place of certain sections of the 
PSRs. The relevant sections of the CCA here involve a credit facility.
Where a credit facility has been used, the relevant legislation  is Section 83 of the CCA 1974. 
The CCA says that a customer  is not liable for any loss for the use of a credit  facility unless 
they (or someone acting  as their agent) used the facility.
There is an exception in that Section 84 says that a customer who gives  someone  a credit 
token is liable for any use of it by that person.
Either way, if the account terms and conditions allow for it, the lender can hold the customer  
liable to the extent  of £50 or the loss where  there  has been mis-use of the credit  token.
So, I think my primary consideration here is whether Mr R consented to these payments 
from his credit card.
Im afraid that despite what Mr R says, Im not persuaded that these transactions  were 
carried out by a fraudster who stole his identity  and used his accounts  in order  to spend 
money on gambling websites.
In coming to that view,  I have taken into account  all of the evidence and the same issues 
identified in the earlier provisional  decision.  For a third party  to have  carried  out these 
transactions, they:
-would need to have had access to Mr Rs laptop  and mobile device (which he says he 
handed back)
-know  Mr Rs personal details such as log in details, passwords and secure  information  
for his devices
-would have to intercept  any winnings and communications from the betting  companies.
Ref: DRN0776082From what  Ive seen, I think it is fair and reasonable for Halifax  to conclude that Mr R
authorised these transactions himself for the following  reasons:
-Ive seen  no evidence to suggest  that Mr Rs accounts had been compromised in 
anyway and there is no plausible explanation as to how a fraudster managed  to 
access Mr Rs personal account information;
-some of the transactions which Mr R disputes are winnings which were paid into 
his account with B and then used to pay off his credit  card. I cannot  see how a 
fraudster would benefit from doing so;
-the betting account being  used  was one set up by Mr R (which I know he does 
not dispute). Again,  I see no benefit  to a fraudster in using someone elses 
account;
-the transactions occurred over a period of months. One would expect a fraudster 
(having gained access to an account)  to have exhausted those  funds as soon as 
possible;
-it is unlikely  a fraudster would have waited for approximately a month before 
beginning to use Mr Rs account.
I also dont think it us unreasonable for Halifax to hold Mr R responsible  for the 
loan application  for very much the same  reasons.
And I have seen  nothing  which suggests Halifax did not investigate Mr Rs complaint 
properly. It accepted some issues with delays and paid £225  to compensate  for this. 
Ive thought about whether it should  have carried out the chargeback procedure  on 
the transactions  and what the likely  response would have been had it done so. I 
dont think the outcome  would have been  any different. I say this because the 
betting accounts being used were opened using  Mr Rs details and so I think  the 
chargebacks would have failed. And I know Mr R refers to chargebacks  carried out 
by another bank and the subsequent responses  to that.  I havent taken those into 
account when  assessing this complaint as each case  stands on its own merits.
In the circumstances,  I make no further award  with regards the level of customer  service.
In summary, I dont find Mr Rs account of what happened here to be credible or plausible 
 and for those reasons, I think it is fair and reasonable for Halifax  to hold Mr R liable for 
the disputed transactions and the loan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0776082