K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about the losses she suffered  due to various issues caused  by TSB Bank 
plc following the migration of its IT systems  in 2018.
background
In April 2018 TSB upgraded its IT systems.  Unfortunately  the migration caused some  
problems for a lot of its customers, including Mrs P  particularly  with their online banking.
During April and May 2018 Mrs P encountered a number  of problems including:
Her ability to access her accounts online;
Making payments  and carrying out balance transfers;
Downloading statements;
The way payments and direct  debits appeared;
Mrs P tried to call TSB,  but was unable to get through. She went into her local branch  but 
they werent able to help with all her problems, and told her to raise  her concerns online, 
which she did. When in branch Mrs P says she specifically asked about balance  transfers   
and the availability of TSBs 0% offers which she liked to take advantage of. She says she 
was told these offers come and go, and to check her online account  for when theyd be 
available.
Mrs P hadnt  heard  anything in response to her complaint by September, and rang TSB 
again. In the course of that call she says she was told the 0% balance transfer offer on her 
card was still available,  and had been since April.
In December TSB sent Mrs P its final response  about her complaint (although she says she 
didnt receive it). It apologised for the problems its IT issues  had caused  her, and offered 
£150 to say sorry.
Mrs P chased TSB about her complaint a few months later, and after reading  its final 
response letter, brought her complaint to our service.
She said while she accepted TSBs response  about  most of her concerns, she still felt shed 
been left out of pocket. Specifically, she told us shed lost out on the opportunity to use 
TSBs 0% balance transfer  offers between May and October 2018  because the offer was no 
longer showing  on her online account.
One of our adjudicators considered the matter.  He thought TSBs offer of £150 to put things 
right was fair. In summary he said:
He couldnt  say for sure what Mrs P was told about balance transfers in the branch, 
but she could  have arranged them over the phone or in person if it wasnt  available  
online.
Mrs P still had a large balance on her credit card she was paying interest on. If shed 
made some balance transfers in mid-2018 she might have paid a little less interest. 
But its difficult to say how much  if any that would have been.
Mrs P didnt agree with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.  
She felt her losses from missing  out on the balance transfer offers were closer  to £1000. She 
Ref: DRN05875992explained this was because she lost out on six months of balance  transfers,  she transferred 
about £700 a month,  the interest rate on her card was about 25% and the offers  would have 
saved her that amount of interest for a year.
I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold this complaint. I said:
It isnt in dispute that TSBs IT issues caused  Mrs P some problems. Im pleased  to 
see its acknowledged that and already offered her £150 to compensate  her for the 
distress shes  been caused  and the time and cost of following up on things. Like our 
adjudicator I think thats fair compensation for whats happened generally.
What remains in dispute is the question  of whether a knock-on  effect  of the issues was 
for Mrs P to have missed out on the opportunity to utilise TSBs 0% balance transfer 
rate on her credit card.
My understanding is that prior to the migration  Mrs Ps online account would show 
when TSB had a live offer meaning  she could  transfer balances  to her credit  card 
which wouldnt attract interest for a period of time. Since then, this information is no 
longer displayed on online accounts  directly.
These offers allowed  Mrs P to transfer balances from other  credit  cards to her TSB 
card. After  paying  a fee, shed then pay no interest on that transferred balance  for the 
duration of the offer (usually a year).
Mrs P has explained how she used these offers to manage her finances.  Because her 
TSB card was near its credit limit, each month  shed  make  overpayments in order  to 
free up her available  credit. Shed then transfer as much as she could afford  from other 
cards under the 0% offer, gradually  reducing  the amount of her overall borrowing she 
was paying interest  on.
Mrs Ps been consistent and clear about how and why she used these offers  to 
manage her money. From her statements I can see she used the offers  to transfer 
money to her TSB card each month,  both before and after the gap following  TSBs IT 
problems. On balance,  I think its more likely than not Mrs P would have continued to 
use these offers during the middle  part of 2018  had she been aware of them.
Mrs P says she went into her branch following the IT problems to ask about  the 
various issues she was having.  She says the staff told her to check  her online account 
for the 0% offers  and so she stopped making  balance transfers  as her account 
showed no active offers for months  afterwards.
I cant say for sure what  Mrs P was told in the branch last year. So I have to decide  
what, on balance,  I thinks more likely than not to have  happened. And as Ive 
explained, Im persuaded by Mrs Ps testimony  about her use of the offers.  I dont think 
shed have stopped using  them to make transfers  if shed not been given an indication 
in the branch that the offers  werent available any more. So on balance  I think its likely 
she was given some information  to that effect.
This turned out to be wrong, and Mrs P could  have continued to make  balance 
transfers under the 0% offer throughout 2018.  TSB have said Mrs P could have found 
out about the offers and made balance transfers on the phone  or in branch, even 
though the facility was no longer  showing  online.
Ref: DRN05875993But I dont see why she would have done so  nor that it would have  been  reasonable 
to expect her to have  done. Shed been  told the offers would show  on her account  and 
nothing did for some  months. I think it was reasonable for her to have relied  on what  
she was told and not to have pursued  TSB some other way on the off chance there 
was an offer shed not seen on her account.
As a result I think TSB needs to take some  responsibility for Mrs P missing  out on the 
offers shed have  otherwise taken up. Ive thought carefully about what  this may have 
cost her. 
Mrs P says its in the region of £1,000   based on the amount she generally 
transferred each month and the fact shed have had a years interest free credit  on 
those sums.  But I dont think thats  a fair reflection of her losses.  
While I agree Mrs P would have been able to make  balance transfers had TSB given 
her accurate  information, Ive also had to take into account the reasonable steps she 
could have taken  to mitigate  her losses. In this case, that means  thinking  about what  
happened in September  2018 when she discovered the offer was still available.
At that point Mrs P had the ability to balance transfer  the sums she would have  in 
earlier months. And that would have meant shed only paid additional interest for a few 
months. So I dont think  it would be fair to hold TSB responsible for any extra interest 
she paid after that.
I have taken into account Mrs Ps submissions  about how she managed her money  
shes said she had to budget to make  overpayments on her TSB card,  freeing up 
space for the balance  transfers. And I dont doubt it would have been hard for her to 
find the money to make  the equivalent of six months of overpayments in one go in 
September.
But where these  balance transfers  required her to make payments to her TSB card, all 
the time she wasnt doing so she had the benefit of using the money shed have  
overpaid with for other things. So I dont think it would be fair to compensate Mrs P 
based on missing  out on years interest  free credit, without acknowledging  that she 
could have made one very large  balance  transfer  in September last year.
So that leaves  the months  from April to September 2018 when I think Mrs P lost out on 
some interest free credit  due to TSBs  errors. Id note here that it isnt the interest on 
her TSB card that shes had to pay  but the interest  on her other cards.
Looking at Mrs Ps statements she has transferred about £700 a month  onto her TSB 
card using the 0% offer over the last year. So to compensate her, and subject to Mrs P 
providing evidence  of the balances and interest rates  on her other cards,  TSB should:
Work out the average  interest rate (R) on the credit  cards Mrs P transfers  
balances from
Pay her an amount (A) which is the sum of interest on £700 at a rate R for six, 
five, four, three, two and one months.
It should also pay Mrs P 8% simple interest  on A from 1 October 2018 until the date it 
pays her.
Ref: DRN05875994Mrs P accepted my provisional findings, but TSB didnt.  It said Id placed  too much  emphasis 
on Mrs Ps internet banking, and that she could still have made  balance  transfers after April 
2018. It said if she used  them  regularly she could have got in touch with TSB to ask about 
their availability earlier than she did. It also said she could have used another  credit  card 
provider to make interest free transfers,  as they are a common  promotion across the 
industry.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points TSB has made in response  to my provisional decision, 
but they havent changed my mind  about whats fair here.
TSB is right to say Ive placed emphasis on what information Mrs P could see online  about 
balance transfers.  Thats because, for the reasons  I explained in my provisional  decision, Im 
satisfied that Mrs P was told to look out for the offers on her internet banking  by staff in a 
TSB branch.
While there  was some dispute about what Mrs P was told, I explained why, on balance,  I 
found it more  likely than not TSB staff told Mrs P balance  transfers  would show online when 
available. TSB hasnt provided  any further argument on that specific  point so I see no reason 
to reach  a different conclusion here.
It being the case that Mrs P was told the offers would show  online, I remain  of the view that it 
was reasonable  for her to have relied on that information. And as a result,  in these particular  
circumstances, I dont  think  it would  be reasonable to have expected Mrs P to do anything  
differently in order to carry out any balance transfers   because  shed  been  given the 
impression by TSB she didnt need to.
Ive thought again about the other options available to Mrs P too, and what  losses are fairly 
attributable to TSBs error. Ultimately,  for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I still 
consider that Mrs P had a very specific way she intended to use her TSB credit card when 
0% balance transfers were available.  And I think she failed to use those as she wanted  as a 
direct result of being told the wrong  thing by TSB about their availability. So I think it would 
be fair for TSB to compensate Mrs P for that loss of opportunity by paying  her any additional  
amounts shes incurred in interest  as a result.
I consider the remedy I set out in my provisional decision remains  a fair way for TSB to 
calculate that compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank  
plc should:
Work out the average interest rate (R) on the credit cards Mrs P transfers balances 
from
Pay her an amount  (A) which is the sum of interest  on £700 at a rate R for six, five, 
four, three, two and one months.
Ref: DRN05875995It should also pay Mrs P 8% simple interest  on A from 1 October 2018 until the date it pays 
her. 
If TSB Bank  plc considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs P a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
If it hasnt  already done so, it should also pay Mrs P £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
shes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0587599