K822xcomplaint
Mr K held a buildings insurance  policy  with Aviva Insurance Limited. He complains that Aviva 
has declined  his claim for water damage following a burst pipe at his property. He also 
complains that there were  delays in assessing and handling his claim.
background 
In March 2018, during a cold spell, Mr Ks house  developed a leak. An emergency plumber 
was called and resolved  the problem, which was identified as a burst pipe. Mr K lodged  an 
insurance claim with Aviva that day and a surveyor attended the property two days  later.
The surveyor told Aviva  that the property appeared  to be unlived in. Mr K later confirmed that 
the tenants of the property had moved  out in November  2017 and at the time of the leak the 
property was listed for sale. Estate agents  visited the house with potential buyers and Mr K 
visited often to ensure  the property was neat and tidy.
Almost three  weeks later,  Aviva wrote to Mr K declining  the claim on the basis  that Mr K 
hadnt complied  with the policy terms. It pointed to Mr Ks policy schedule, which said Mr K 
had confirmed the property wouldnt be unoccupied for more  than 60 consecutive days. And 
the policy terms excluded  cover for escapes  of water where the insured property had been  
left unoccupied for longer  than this.
Mr K disagreed with Aviva. He argued that there  were regular visits and he felt Aviva  was 
unfairly relying on small print. He said he hadnt seen a copy  of the policy schedule when his 
policy was renewed  and was unaware  of the restriction. Had he known about it, hed have 
told Aviva  about the occupancy plans.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and didnt feel that Aviva had been  
unreasonable in declining  the claim. They  didnt  recommend that Aviva do anything  further.
Mr K didnt accept that view, so the complaints  been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having looked at everything  both Mr K 
and Aviva have said, I dont think Aviva has acted  unreasonably in declining the claim.
Mr Ks insurance policy began in May 2017, to cover a full calendar year. Mr K says this was 
a renewal and he didnt see the policy schedule,  as everything was dealt with online. Avivas  
confirmed that Mr K wasnt sent hard copies of the policy schedule or terms.  But these 
documents were  available for Mr K to view in Avivas online portal. And Avivas provided its 
system notes showing that it emailed  Mr K on renewal to alert him that these documents 
were available. It also gave him the log-in link to access the portal.  So I think Aviva  did 
enough to make sure Mr K was aware  of the policy schedule and terms. 
The policy schedule says Mr K had confirmed the policy wouldnt be unoccupied for more 
than 60 consecutive days. I dont know exactly what Mr K put in his application form. But the 
statement is clearly set out in the policy schedule. So if it were incorrect, Id have expected 
Mr K to contact Aviva to make it aware. I havent seen anything to suggest he did so.
Ref: DRN04359432The policy terms for Mr Ks buildings insurance  say that escape of water  from pipes wont  be 
covered where  the property has been left unoccupied for more than 60 days.  Unoccupied 
is defined as not lived in by [the policyholder] or anyone  who has [the policyholders] 
permission or does not contain enough furniture  for normal living purposes.
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr Ks property hadnt been lived in since  his tenants 
moved out in November  2017. So Ive looked at the other part of the definition. Avivas 
surveyor said that when  he inspected the damage  in March 2018,  the property had been 
cleared of all furniture. And in a later conversation  with Aviva, Mr K confirmed  that hed taken 
the furniture out of the property at the end of 2017. So I think the property had been empty  of 
both furniture and inhabitants since at least the end of December 2017. As the pipe burst  in 
early March, this had been the case for more than 60 days at the time the damage occurred.
Under the terms of his policy,  Mr K is not covered  for the water  damage to his home.  I dont 
think Aviva  has acted  unreasonably in declining his claim.
There does seem to have been an unreasonable delay in contacting  Mr K about the 
outcome of his claim. The surveyors report was sent to Aviva the day after his visit and 
I think Aviva  could have made  the decision on the claim earlier than it did. Aviva  has 
previously offered £50 for the delays Mr K experienced during  the handling of his claim. 
I agree  that the compensation offered by Aviva is fair and reasonable. So Im going to 
require Aviva to pay Mr K £50. Its for Mr K to decide  whether to accept my decision and 
make that offer legally binding.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Aviva Insurance Limited  to pay Mr K £50 in compensation 
in full and final settlement  of his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0435943