K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) fitted the wrong valve  in her 
central heating system  when she called on it under her home  emergency insurance  policy.  
The result was that it failed causing extensive  water  damage to her house.
background
Mrs H has had a home  emergency  policy with BGI for many years.  In September 2017  BGI 
fitted a replacement pressure reducing  valve under that policy in her central heating system 
near her hot water tank. In April 2018,  the valve failed causing extensive flooding  and water 
damage to the upstairs and downstairs of her house.
Mrs H phoned BGI and it arranged for one of its agents to attend that day. He said the valve  
that BGI had fitted in September 2017  was the wrong valve  for her pressurised hot water  
tank, which was why it had failed. He said the correct valve would have to be ordered, but 
restored her cold water supply in the meantime.
Mrs H claimed  on her household insurance  policy. She complained  to BGI that:
its engineer had fitted the wrong  valve in September 2017 which had caused the 
damage to her house;
BGIs  engineers who came to complete the repair  after the emergency attendance by 
BGIs agent didnt  do so properly and hadnt  replaced  the valve;
a BGI representative she spoke  to on the phone  was rude, argumentative and 
unsympathetic; 
although her household  insurance  policy was dealing with her claim, she and her 
husband were  still having to live in one bedroom  more than two months later while 
the damage was repaired; and
they had incurred additional  costs  such as a £100 insurance excess, loss of no claim 
discount (NCD) on their household policy, two days lost wages for her husband, and 
additional water  and electricity charges,
BGI offered compensation of £30 for its delay in responding to her complaint. Because BGI 
hadnt responded further Mrs H complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said BGI had fitted  
the wrong part in September 2017, which had failed. She thought Mrs H had received poor 
service from BGI following the failure. And Mrs H was left with additional disruption, losses 
and costs following  her household insurance claim, including living  in one bedroom  and 
losing her policy excess and NCD. 
The investigator recommended  that BGI pay Mrs H compensation  of £300 for the severe 
distress and inconvenience she had suffered, in addition to the £30 it had already offered 
her. Mrs H accepted the investigators recommendation. However  BGI said it didnt think  any 
compensation was justified  beyond the £30 it had offered, and asked for this complaint to be 
reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05854162BGI has supplied limited information  to us following Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs H says she was 
told by BGIs agent who first responded to the emergency that the pressure reducing  valve  
BGI had fitted previously  failed because it was the wrong valve for her pressurised hot water 
cylinder. 
BGI hasnt denied this. However from the repair records  it has supplied, and what Mrs H has 
said, it isnt clear whether  it replaced  this valve after the escape of water  in April 2018, 
although it seems to have  replaced  other  parts.
On the limited information I have, I conclude that the escape  of water in April 2018 happened 
because, for whatever reason, BGIs September 2017 repair  was faulty.  So I consider it was 
responsible for the water escape and the resulting  damage.
Mrs Hs household insurance policy is dealing with making good the damage to the property. 
But in addition, as mentioned above:
Mrs H has incurred some costs  and expenses which arent  covered by the policy, 
particularly the policy excess  of £100;  
she has suffered distress and inconvenience  from the effects of the water  escape;  
and
BGIs  handling of her claim  after the escape of water seems to have  been  poor.  
The investigator recommended  that as compensation for these matters BGI should pay    
Mrs H £300. I consider it should pay her this amount as compensation for the distress and 
general inconvenience it has caused  her.
But in addition, and separately from this, it should pay her £100 to reimburse  the excess she 
had to pay on her household  insurance policy. It should also pay her the £30 it has offered 
her for the delay  in considering her complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs H:
£100 in respect  of the excess she had to pay on her household insurance policy;
£30 for its delay in considering her complaint; and
£300 for the distress and inconvenience  BGI caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0585416