K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains, with the help of his representative, that Tesco Personal Finance PLC acted 
irresponsibly when it opened  his credit card account. And it hasnt operated  the account 
fairly.
background
There are a number of issues Mr H is unhappy  with and to make sure we understood the full 
nature of his complaint our adjudicator  outlined them  in the following way:
1.It was irresponsible  of Tesco  to give Mr H credit.  
2.His statement of account  wasnt clear and didnt provide  a breakdown  of the amount  
he owed. 
3.His credit  agreement  didnt mention missed payments. 
4.The terms of the agreement, and in particular the fees and charges, were unfair.
5.The credit  agreement  wasnt enforceable.
6.Tescos contact and communication with Mr H had been  aggressive.
Tesco said:
1.If itd had any concerns about Mr Hs application  for a credit card, it wouldve declined 
the application or referred it for further  checks. It assessed the information Mr H had 
provided in his application form. And there were times when Mr H paid more than the 
minimum payment and repaid the balance  in full or didnt use the card. So it thought 
itd correctly assessed the affordability of the card account  at the time Mr H applied 
for it.
2.Its monthly statements  had full details about Mr Hs transactions and the outstanding 
balance on his account.
3.In Mr Hs credit agreement the implications of missed payments was dealt with on 
page 4. 
4.The charges  were applied in line with its terms and conditions. Those charges have 
been independently assessed.
5.It didnt agree the credit agreement was unenforceable.  It was signed, it contained all 
the necessary  terms and conditions  and Tesco had complied  with all Mr Hs requests  
for information and itd acted  in line with Section 78 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. 
6.It was sorry  that Mr H felt its communications with him had been aggressive. That 
wasnt its intention.
Our adjudicator said:
She was satisfied that on the information Mr H gave  Tesco, his credit card account  wouldve 
been affordable  at the time Tesco issued it.
This Service couldnt look at whether fees and charges are unfair. It can only look at whether 
Tesco has applied them correctly. And she couldnt see any evidence to show  any charges 
or fees had been applied incorrectly.
She could  see Tesco  had apologised if Mr H felt its correspondence and communication  had 
been aggressive. 
Ref: DRN02658882She concluded that she couldnt see Tesco had acted incorrectly or irresponsibly either  
when opening  Mr Hs credit card account or subsequently.
The representative acting  on Mr Hs behalf  said he didnt  agree Tesco  had adequately 
considered the affordability of the credit card account. Itd taken into account  Mr Hs overtime  
which wasnt guaranteed. And it hadnt  taken  account of necessary living  expenses  such  as 
rent, council tax and utility bills. So he wanted  the late payment charges waived.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It would appear from Mr Hs representatives  response to the adjudicators  opinion  that the 
only part of Mr Hs complaint that remains at issue is the affordability of the credit  card when 
Tesco originally issued  it. But for the sake of completeness I will also briefly deal with the 
other parts of Mr Hs complaint. 
1.Ive considered firstly whether it was irresponsible for Tesco  to have opened  Mr Hs 
credit card account.  Irresponsible lending is not just about whether Mr H could afford  
to repay  the credit  or not  its whether theres another  reason he shouldnt  have had 
the credit. This will depend on his personal circumstances. And it could be 
irresponsible for Tesco to lend money to someone  who is in a debt spiral because  
theyre borrowing  money to repay other loans which  they cant afford. But that didnt 
appear to be the case here.
 
So Ive looked  at whether  Mr Hs credit  card was unaffordable. If any lending  is 
unaffordable it means that the customer couldnt  afford to make  the repayments  at 
the time he or she was given the credit. The affordability checks a lender should  
carry out should be proportionate  to the size of the loan and the cost of repayment.  
Tesco has explained  how it made the assessments. And we cant  say that it 
shouldve done  any particular check. But we can look at the information it had to see 
if there was anything that shouldve concerned it. 
Tesco tells us Mr H applied for his credit  card over the phone.  On 30 July 2013  it sent 
him some information and two copies of his credit agreement. He sent the signed  
agreement back on 8 August 2013. Tesco opened  his credit card account  with a limit 
of £1,750. His introductory  rates were  0% interest for 27 months on balance transfers 
and 0% interest for 3 months on purchases.  
It seems  to me that based on the information  available to it, Mr H met the banks 
lending criteria. Banks are entitled to set that criteria using commercial judgement 
and I cant find that Tesco  acted unreasonably in applying it to Mr Hs application. I 
think Tesco  reasonably assessed Mr Hs ability to pay his minimum monthly 
repayments if he chose  to use his card. Tesco had a responsibility  to make sure Mr H 
could afford  the monthly repayments.  And I think its shown it reasonably assessed 
that affordability. But Mr H also had a responsibility  not to apply for the credit  card if 
he thought he couldnt afford the repayments.
So for all those reasons  I cant  fairly find Tesco was acting irresponsibility when it 
opened Mr Hs credit card account.  And I cant find it was wrong for it to conclude the 
credit was unaffordable at the time.
Ref: DRN026588832.The monthly statements Tesco sent Mr H had detailed  information about his 
transactions and the outstanding balance that month. It explained the minimum 
repayment amount.  And it explained what he should do if he couldnt make  that 
payment. And it had a list of all the relevant charges.  It applied  the charges and 
interest in line with its terms and conditions so I cant fairly ask it to refund them.
 
3.The credit  agreement  had information  about  missed payments. And Mr H signed  a 
copy of that agreement on 3 August 2013 so Im satisfied he wouldve seen that 
information. 
4.When a payment is late the terms and conditions of the account have been 
breached. Tesco  applied its late payment charges in line with its terms and 
conditions. Those  charges are clearly set out. So Im satisfied it was entitled to apply 
them.
5.Mr H says his credit  agreement is not enforceable. But its not for this Service to 
decide whether  a debt is legally enforceable. Only a court can decide  this.
6.Mr H thinks  Tesco was aggressive  when  it was in contact with him about  his account. 
But I cant see that Tesco has done  anything other  than reasonably  comply  with its 
obligations to speak to Mr H to try and sort out the best way forward for him to deal 
with the outstanding balance on his account.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision but for all the reasons Ive given I dont 
think Tesco  has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0265888