K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Western  Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat)  irresponsibly lent to him. He wants a 
refund with interest.
background
This complaint is about seven payday  loans Western Circle provided to Mr S between  
February 2016 and May 2017.  Mr Ss loan amounts were all either  £200  or £300 to be repaid 
in 2 or 3 monthly instalments. Mr S repaid six of the loans early. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint  and thought  the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Western Circle didnt reply to the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Western Circle needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Western Circle should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Western  Circle was required to 
establish whether  Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN02818082Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Western Circle asked Mr S for his monthly  income, which he said was between  £1,600  and 
£1,800. It also asked him for his monthly  expenditure  and it said it carried  out credit checks.  
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances at the time and his 
history with West Circle, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  to ask him for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable for his first four loans. 
There wasnt anything in the information Mr S provided or the information Western  Circle 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
Mr S was saying. So I cant say Western Circle was wrong to approve  loans one to four. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely  have 
shown that Mr S had outstanding payday  loans with other lenders that totalled more than his 
monthly income. So he had no disposable  income  to repay  Western  Circles loan. And so I 
think Western Circle was wrong to approve  this loan.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Western Circles lending history  with Mr S, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Western Circle  should reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Western  Circle should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Western  Circle. Loan six 
was taken out eleven months after Mr Ss first. The amounts  stayed roughly the 
same. There was a five month  break between loans five and six. But given Mr Ss 
financial position I dont think this was enough for Western Circle to say that Mr Ss 
position had improved. So I think Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Western Circle over an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Western Circle continued to provide borrowing from loan 
six onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ss ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN02818083So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans six and seven and Western  Circle should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Western  Circle  needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans five to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mr Ss credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans six and seven should be removed 
from Mr Ss credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle to take off tax from this interest.  Western 
Circle must  give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Western  Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  should pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0281808