K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK Plc declined their application to port their 
mortgage to another property.
background
In May 2018, Mr and Mrs M applied to port their mortgage. They  wanted to move out of 
London because  of Mr Ms health.  The property  they wanted  to buy was a farm with over 30 
acres of land, although the porting application Mr and Mrs M made was to finance  the 
purchase of one lot within  the wider farm comprising of around 10 acres. The application  
stated that Mr and Mrs M were also planning to buy the adjoining land for family use, which  
they would  be paying for in cash.  
Santander declined  the porting application, as they didnt deem the new property as 
acceptable security for the mortgage.  As a result, Mr and Mrs M applied  for a mortgage  with 
a different lender, which was successful. On redemption of their mortgage with Santander, 
theyve paid an Early  Repayment Charge (ERC) of over £30,000, as well as broker  and 
product fees.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Santander  about their decision. Santander  referred the 
application to their senior underwriters but the decision  remained unchanged,  so Mr and Mrs 
M brought their complaint  to our service.  Our investigator looked into things and in her latest 
view, she explained  that whilst Santander  could  have handled the application  better, she 
couldnt say this would have made a difference to the lending  decision. She agreed the ERC 
was payable.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage with Santander, it says an 
application to transfer the balance to a new mortgage would  be accepted, with the exception 
of some exclusions. One of these exclusions says they wouldnt accept the application if the 
risk that we would suffer  a loss if we realised our security would be significantly greater 
under the new mortgage than it is this mortgage.
So whilst Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  was portable under the terms and 
conditions of their mortgage,  there were limits  to what Santander would be willing to agree 
as acceptable.
The farm was split into two lots that were available to buy separately,  but Ive seen that the 
land was registered as one title on the land registry.  The application said that Mr and Mrs M 
wanted to port their mortgage to the lot of around 10 acres, with the intention of buying the 
rest of the land in cash. Given that, at the time of the application, the land was registered as 
one title of over 30 acres, I can understand why this application would have caused 
Santander some concern.
Ref: DRN02497902I think its reasonable that a lender would want to be satisfied that the property the mortgage 
is to be secured against, is an acceptable  risk to them in the event that they need to take 
possession of the property. One large plot of land, with one registered title - but only one 
small part of the land used as security  for the mortgage, would be likely to cause problems. 
The mortgage terms allow Santander to assess their risk before accepting  a porting 
application, and given the type of land Mr and Mrs M wanted  to buy, I dont  consider  their 
decision to decline the application as it was presented was unfair.
Mr M has said he would have been willing to split the title in order  to port the mortgage, and 
Im persuaded he would have done  this given the reasons  he wanted to move.  However, 
Santander can only be expected to assess the application thats presented to them. At the 
time of the application the land was registered  as one title  so this is what  was assessed. It 
is not for Santander  to give advice on what Mr and Mrs M should  do with the land, and they 
werent able to guarantee that splitting the titles would  have  resulted  in a successful 
application, so it wouldnt have been  reasonable for them to give advice to Mr and Mrs M 
about this. So Im still satisfied the application  was assessed fairly.
From looking  at the underwriters notes  it does seem they wanted to know  more about the 
situation and what Mr and Mrs Ms plans were for the property  and I cant  see that they 
were ever asked about this. I also note that Mr and Mrs M were  willing  to buy the whole plot 
of land and port the mortgage  on all 30 acres. However, even if the underwriters questions 
were put to Mr and Mrs M, Im not persuaded the outcome of the lending decision would 
have been different. 
Mr and Mrs M were  planning to buy a considerably large plot of land.  Even if Mr and Mrs M 
were to port the mortgage and buy the whole plot, Im satisfied this also wouldnt have been 
considered acceptable security  based on Santanders lending  policy.  I understand 
Mr and Mrs M feel its unfair they didnt have  access to the details of the lending  policy,  
which could have influenced their decisions.  But a banks  lending policy  is commercially  
sensitive information  and theyre not required to share this with customers. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms frustrations about  this, I dont consider its unfair that Santander 
havent shared  this with them. 
I have however seen  a copy  of the lending criteria  myself, and am satisfied that an 
application to port the mortgage  onto the whole  plot of land, would not have been acceptable 
either. So whilst Santander could have asked more  questions  about the application,  Im not 
persuaded any answers or other options  given  would have resulted in the application being 
accepted.
Mr and Mrs M have  also complained that now theyve redeemed  their mortgage and 
borrowed elsewhere, theyve had to pay a significant  ERC to Santander, when there  was 
only six months left on the fixed rate product term. Ive seen a copy  of their existing 
mortgage offer from 2015, and Im satisfied  that the ERCs were  clearly stated and explained 
on this document.  The mortgage was split into sub-accounts, with different interest rate 
products  two of which ended in January 2019 and one in January 2021. 
The mortgage offer contains a table, which shows how the ERC would be calculated, and 
the amount it would be if the mortgage was repaid early. So Im satisfied this information was 
available to Mr and Mrs M at the time they agreed to the mortgage, and that it was set out 
clearly. The mortgage  offer also says in this section  if you move house you may be able to 
transfer this mortgage to another property subject to the conditions set out in the mortgage 
Ref: DRN02497903conditions booklet  under transferring your loan to a new mortgage. And so gives  no 
guarantee that a porting  application would be accepted.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M are frustrated, as they did only have six months remaining 
on the term of two of the sub-accounts, but the ERC  is chargeable at any point the money is 
repaid before the date set in the mortgage  offer. I think this is made reasonably  clear  in the 
document. I dont think this is unreasonable given the way ERCs are calculated and the 
lenders costs associated  with the mortgage being  repaid  earlier than planned, so Im not 
satisfied Santander  have charged the ERC unfairly.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M were faced with a difficult situation, and I appreciate why 
they wanted to move  when they did. Having  to find a new lender  to give them a mortgage  on 
this property would have been  expensive  and stressful. But as Im not persuaded Santander  
have acted unfairly here, I cant reasonably  say they should  compensate  Mr and Mrs M for 
these additional  costs or the stress.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0249790