K821x#15complaint
Mr R complained because  HSBC UK Bank  Plc refused to refund transactions on his 
business account, which he said were fraudulent.
background
Mr R had a business  current  account with HSBC,  with a debit card. On 4 August, he rang
HSBC about some withdrawals he didnt  recognise.  He told HSBC  that he believed his card
had been cloned.
The transactions included several which said NOMS money to pris (name  of city) and
Money to HMPPS (name of city).  Mr R said hed looked this up on the internet to find out
what it was, and discovered it was a way of sending money to someone in prison.  And the
city was hundreds of miles  from where Mr R lived. There were other transactions too which
he didnt recognise.  These included two to a supermarket, where the location  on the
statement was in a part of the country  which was a long way away  from where  Mr R lived.
HSBC investigated.  In a phone call, it explained  that the transactions  paying  money  to a
prisoner, the supermarket,  and transactions paying  money to a digital distribution service,
had been carried  out without the physical card but using Mr Rs details.  
In its final response letter,  HSBC said that it wouldnt refund the money. It said the
transactions had taken  place over a prolonged period of time, and there were gaps between
them, which also wasnt typical of a fraudster.  The bank noted that Mr R still had his card in
his possession, and couldnt understand why he hadnt reported it sooner. HSBC  said that it
wasnt responsible  for identifying who had made  the disputed transactions, but only for
whether Mr R or the bank was liable for the transactions. It suggested that because of the
seriousness of his claim, Mr R should contact the police.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
He explained  that his business account was used daily, and there were  lots of transactions
so he didnt keep  an eye on the account. Mr R said he didnt use online banking   hed tried
to set it up, but had a problem so he didnt bother. He also said that he kept the card in his
wallet, or in an unlocked drawer next to his bed. He lived with his partner,  and his partners
adult son who stayed  on his computer in his room,  sometimes late at night. Mr R confirmed
that he had no friends  or family in prison, or who might have a partner or friend in prison.
Mr R also clarified  which  transactions he was disputing. He said he wasnt  concerned about
the transactions paying money to a digital distribution service, or some post office  
transactions because  they were for small amounts. Mr R confirmed that what he wanted  was 
the prison transactions and supermarket transactions looking into, so he could get his money 
back.
The investigator tried to contact the prison service  and the supermarket for more information.
She couldnt find out any information about  the prisoner to whom  the money had been sent. 
The supermarket told the investigator that the location mentioned  on the transaction wasnt a 
store, but one of its online distribution locations, so the payments related to online 
purchases. But it wasnt able to provide details of the individual purchases.
The investigator thought that Mr R had carried out the disputed transactions himself.  She
Ref: DRN03097082said that shed  have expected a fraudster to have  used up the funds in the account  quickly,
rather than over a longer  period. She noted that the card details had been entered manually
from the card details. And Mr R hadnt  reported the transactions until a month after they
started, which was when  he said hed noticed them. Although Mr R didnt use online 
banking, the investigator also thought that because Mr R used his account almost daily, hed 
have checked  his balance, so it was unlikely he hadnt noticed  the transactions  earlier.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he didnt authorise the transactions, so he wanted to take it
further.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations governing  Mr Rs complaint
The regulations which apply to Mr Rs complaint are the Payment Services  Regulations
2017. These say there are two aspects to consider: authentication and authorisation.
Authentication is the technical  part of a transaction, such as whether correct card details
were used, whether  the three digit security number was correct, etc. HSBCs computer
records show that the transactions Mr R is disputing were carried  out over the internet, and
that they were  authenticated  by the correct entering of all the card details.  That includes the
three digit number from the back of the card. So the disputed transactions  were
authenticated.
Authorisation is about whether or not the consumer  consented to the transactions.  Broadly
speaking, if the consumer didnt authorise them, the bank is liable. If the consumer did
authorise them, hes liable. The regulations  also say that consumers have a duty to take all
reasonable steps to keep the card safe. That takes into account what  the account terms and
conditions say, and what a reasonable person would do. If the card hasnt been kept safe,
the regulations  deem this gross negligence  and arent liable.
Evidence about who carried out the disputed transactions
Mr R believes  his card was cloned. In my provisional  decision,  I explained  that if this had 
happened, for example  at a cash machine, I didnt consider there would have been the same 
pattern of transactions.  Fraudsters who have a single opportunity to clone a card are likely to 
take the maximum out of the account  as fast as possible, before the victim finds out and 
stops further debits.  That wasnt the pattern here.  The first disputed  transaction took place 
on 4 July for £100,  followed  by amounts ranging  from £50 to £180 at various intervals over 
the next month. This pattern indicates  that whoever made these transactions wasnt  likely to 
be a third party whod cloned the card.
So this left the options of Mr R carrying out the transactions himself, or someone else
who could get access to Mr Rs details without his knowledge. There were several factors
which make  me think that it wasnt Mr R, but someone who could get access  to his details
without his knowledge:
Ref: DRN03097083-The disputed transactions were carried  out on an android operating system and the 
computer records also show which browser was used. The computer records also 
showed that the non-disputed ones were carried out on a different operating system 
and browser. The investigator asked Mr R what type of device he used, and it wasnt 
the one used for the disputed transactions.
- Mr R initially  disputed the payments to a digital distribution service,  but then said he
wasnt pursuing these   not because he said hed authorised them,  but because they
were small amounts. Even though hes not pursuing those payments, they can give a
clue about what happened. Thats because the digital distribution  service wasnt  for
the type of phone Mr R used.
- I also noted that the disputed transactions were mainly  carried  out in the late 
evening, in many cases  around midnight or 1 am. I didnt have  times  for the many 
transactions on Mr Rs business account, but theyre  to suppliers for his type of 
business and all looked like daytime  transactions. It didnt follow  the normal pattern to 
make transactions during the night. So I considered it was likely that the evening and 
night-time transactions  were being carried out covertly  by someone who had 
accessed Mr Rs card information.
- Mr R told us that hed tried online banking but couldnt make it work, and HSBC
confirmed he didnt  use online banking. The disputed transactions  were all made by
entering the card details  online   to the prisoner payment system, and to the
supermarkets online  purchase system. I found it would be surprising if Mr R himself
had suddenly started making  online  payments in this way. I also noted  that in the call
between Mr R and HSBC,  Mr R said the supermarket transactions  couldnt be his
because the location was hundreds of miles  away from where he was that day. I 
accepted that he didnt  know,  until our investigator  told him, that in fact the 
supermarket location was its online  distribution centre.
- As there  were  a lot of transactions on Mr Rs account, this provided the opportunity to
see the pattern  of his business.  And the undisputed  transactions  all took place in his
local area, unlike the disputed  transactions  to the prisoner and supermarket. So the
disputed transactions  would  be very much out of character for this account.
- The balance on Mr Rs business  account  varied from being  in overdraft, to in credit.
They varied as he paid suppliers and then received  lump sum credits  from named
people, presumably clients. In general,  the disputed  transactions occur around  the
times when  a large credit had gone  into the account. An example was that a £1,000 
credit went  in on 4 July, the same day that the first prisoner payment was debited
and the first supermarket payment was debited. So I thought it was likely that the 
person who made the payments knew when Mr R received money into the account. 
That could of course be Mr R himself. But I listened to the call recording when Mr R
talked to HSBC  about  the payment, and I considered he genuinely  believed  he hadnt
made  the transactions.
For all these reasons, I believed Mr R when he said he didnt  carry out the disputed 
transactions himself,  or authorise or give consent to someone else to make them.  I 
considered it was likely that the disputed transactions were  carried  out by someone  close to 
him, who had access to Mr Rs card information,  and also some personal  knowledge  of Mr 
Rs working arrangements.  I couldnt  say who that person might  have  been,  but thats the 
explanation which best fits the circumstances.
Ref: DRN03097084Liability
If the person who made the payments was someone  who had access to Mr Rs card and
personal information, that doesnt mean that Mr R necessarily gets his money  refunded by
HSBC. Thats because  its reasonable to expect consumers to take steps  to keep the card
safe and their account monitored.
Mr R said he kept his card in his wallet or in his bedside drawer. This isnt unusual, but,
sadly, either of those places could be accessed by someone whom Mr R knew  and trusted.
Going forward, Id suggest to Mr R that he might wish to get a replacement  card from HSBC,
and keep it on his person  in an inside pocket, and in a locked drawer at night.
I didnt agree with the investigator  that Mr R must  have known about the transactions  before
he raised them with HSBC, because theyd been spread out over about a month. Mr R was
clearly busy running his business,  and it was also clear that he wasnt  someone who kept a 
daily internet check on his account.  I considered  that someone who knew Mr R could have 
used this knowledge to defraud him. The fraudster would have hoped  that Mr R wouldnt 
notice occasional debits,  especially if they were done when  the account was in credit  
because of larger sums paid in from clients.
Its Mr Rs choice to use his account as he has and to monitor  it in the way he does. But, in
thinking about what would be fair here,  I took into account the fact that the relevant 
regulations here allow people  to challenge  transactions, and also mention timescales within 
which disputes like this one are to be brought. So I thought it would be fair to say that this 
meant that it would be a good idea for customers to monitor their accounts  to make sure 
they can challenge transactions they dont recognise  and do so within the relevant 
timeframes mentioned in the regulations. In addition Section  22 of HSBCs  business banking 
terms and conditions, which is about unauthorised payments, says You  must  call us as 
soon as you can. In Mr Rs case, I considered that would have meant when his July 2018  
statement arrived and hed checked  it within a reasonable  time.
So I considered a fair outcome, for both sides, would be for HSBC to refund Mr R for the
disputed transactions  which took place before he could  reasonably have been expected to
receive and check his July 2018 statement.
The evidence supplied to me at the time of my provisional decision didnt show  when Mr Rs 
July 2018 statement had been posted out. So I asked HSBC,  in its response to the 
provisional decision, to provide evidence of when Mr Rs July 2018 statement was posted,  
and the level of service  paid for  presumably second class postage. I said that I intended to 
order that HSBC   should  refund the disputed transactions  which  took place up to one 
calendar week after Mr R might be expected to have  received that statement.  I thought this 
would be a fair period of time to have allowed Mr R to receive and check  this statement. I 
also said I intended to award interest  on the sums to be refunded,  at 8% pa simple.
Ref: DRN03097085responses to my provisional  decision
Mr R said when he received the statement he did contact HSBC.  He said he might have left 
the statement  on his desk for a couple of days until he filed them away. But when he did file 
the statement  away, hed noticed the problems and got in touch with HSBC.
HSBC queried which  transactions  Mr R was disputing, and I clarified that he was disputing  
the prison and supermarket transactions. HSBC  confirmed that Mr Rs July 2018 statement 
would have included  transactions  to Saturday  28 July 2018. It also confirmed that the 
statement would have  been posted  out by second  class post the next day, ie Monday  30 
July 2018.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments. Having done so, I consider my 
original conclusions were  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs information that Mr Rs July 2018  statement had been  issued on 28 July, and would 
have been posted on 30 July, showed me that Mr R had indeed  contacted HSBC within  a 
reasonable time after receiving his statement. I consider it should have arrived around 
Wednesday 1 August.  And the transactions  which Mr R is disputing all fall within  that 
statement period.
Allowing one calendar week for Mr R to check it and contact HSBC, I consider that HSBC 
should refund the disputed prison and supermarket transactions  from 4 July to 8 August 
2018. These are:
Date in 2018 Transaction type £
4 July Prison transaction 100.00
5 July Supermarket online 173.94
13 July Prison transaction 75.00
19 July Prison transaction 180.00
25 July Prison transaction 50.00
2 August Prison transaction 180.00
6 August Supermarket online 142.39
Total 901.33
I also award interest on the sums  to be refunded,  at 8% pa simple.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr R:
- £901.33 refund for the disputed transactions detailed above; and
- 8% interest on this, from the dates of the transactions  to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0309708