K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them  alongside a mortgage  in 1991. 
I know that when  this policy was sold, Santander  was trading as National & Provincial 
Building Society. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to Santander for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with 
that view. They said that they didnt know theyd been sold a PPI policy.  As evidence  of this, 
they said they had bought another policy to cover  their mortgage with a different financial 
product. If theyd known  they already had cover with Santander, they wouldnt have insured 
themselves again.  
As the parties disagree with our adjudicators view, the matter  has been passed  to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but I havent  upheld  this complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
It appears to me likely that PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs B at the same time as their mortgage 
during a meeting between the parties.  I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs B during  
that meeting.  So to help me decide whats likely  to have happened,  Ive looked at what  Mr 
and Mrs B remember and Ive also looked  at what Santander told us about it. Ive had the 
benefit of seeing some documentary evidence that Santander has provided to me. 
I want to say at the outset  that I dont doubt that what  Mr and Mrs B told us is what they 
honestly remember about the sale. But I also have  to bear in mind that this policy was sold 
almost 30 years ago and it is difficult to remember precisely what  happened such  a long time 
ago. 
I initially considered  whether  PPI would have been  sold to Mr and B without their express 
knowledge or consent. I can see from the mortgage application form that PPI was 
recommended and a choice  was made  to indicate  that only Mr B was to be covered. I think  
that indicates there was probably  a discussion between the parties as to how the policy  
would have been set up at the time. I can also see the cost of the PPI was set out on the 
mortgage offer. This was Mr and Mrs Bs first mortgage, so I think  they would have read this 
document in some detail. If they didnt  know about  PPI at that time, I think  theyd  have 
wanted to know  what that charge was for. 
Crucially though, weve been provided with a document dated 23 May 1997 from 
Abbey National  in which Mr and Mrs B were  said to have made an accident and sickness 
claim on the policy theyre now complaining about. The outcome of that claim isnt clear, but 
Ref: DRN06650122the letter says that it has been passed  to the insurer for their consideration. We know  that 
Santander has traded as Abbey National. Looking at this evidence,  I think Mr and Mrs B 
would have known  they had PPI alongside  their mortgage through  Santander  (or a business 
it was trading as). If they didnt know  about the cover, they wouldnt have known they could 
make a claim. 
I accept Mr and Mrs Bs evidence from their GP that they had also made another  claim with 
another financial business. From  the evidence  I have,  I cant  say whether  that cover  was the 
same as PPI or whether  it covered something  else. Either  way, although I appreciate  they 
dont now remember, I think Mr and Mrs B knew  theyd bought PPI at the same  time as their 
first mortgage. And I think it would have been  reasonably clear to them  that they could have  
refused this policy if they didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale.  That means  Santander had to make sure the cover was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs B told us 
about their particular circumstances at that time. 
As I said above, the cover was set up for Mr B only. I understand from Mr and Mrs B that he 
was in good health at the time. So I dont think he would have been affected by any of the 
policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything  unusual about his 
circumstances that would have stopped him from being  able to make a successful claim if he 
needed to. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs B told us that Mr B had unusually generous  sick pay. But I think  
its important for me to say that this mortgage  was secured on their property. The 
consequences of them falling behind with their repayments  were significant. So I think that 
with a PPI policy, Mr and Mrs B would have  been able to use their existing means on their 
other essential expenditure at what would  have no doubt been  a stressful time if Mr B was 
out of work. 
Overall, I think the PPI probably was suitable for them. Even  so, Santander  still had to give 
Mr and Mrs B enough information  about  the cover  so they could decide for themselves 
whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept  its possible that Santander didnt tell        
Mr and Mrs B everything it should have  done. But as Ive set out above,  I think Mr and Mrs B 
probably chose  to buy PPI at the time  so it looks as though they wanted this type of cover. 
And I think they could  have made  a successful  claim if necessary. It follows  that I dont think  
more or better information about the PPI would have  put them off buying  it. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but for the reasons Ive set out above,  I havent upheld 
their complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Nicola Bowes
Ref: DRN06650123ombudsman
Ref: DRN0665012