K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  mis-sold  him a 
pension. And that it didnt  provide him with enough information to make an informed choice  
about taking his benefits.
background
In 1988, following the advice of Legal and General, Mr G transferred his Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) to a Personal Pension  with Legal and General.
In 1998 this sale was reviewed as instructed by the regulator under the Pension  Review. The 
result of this review was that Legal and General  agreed there had been a mis-sale and it 
found that Mr G was due redress  of nearly  £2,500. This was added to his policy  and was 
designed to put him back in the position he wouldve been had he not left his OPS.
In 2006 Legal and General say that Mr G took his benefits at age 53; 55 was the maturity 
date of his Legal and General policy. 
Then in 2018  Mr G complained to Legal and General about the shortfall in his pension 
compared to what he wouldve  had if hed stayed in his OPS. Mr G says what  prompted this 
was hed received  his state pension and it showed a deduction because  hed been  
contracted out with his OPS. And after looking at the figures  he realised how much  hed lost 
out on.
Mr G complained to Legal and General  but it said it had already considered the mis-sale  as 
part of the pension review. And it wouldnt look at the issue  again.
The complaint was referred  to this service and our investigator looked  into it. The 
investigator and Mr G discussed the complaint  a number of times.  After which, Mr G 
accepted that Legal  and General had complied with the pension  review but he still felt the 
product was unsuitable for him. He explained that he felt in 1998 Legal and General should  
have explained  to him more about his pension. He says had he known more he wouldve 
taken his benefits at age 65. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator and Mr G corresponded  in some  detail on the issue  of the pension review,  
how it worked and the redress  that Mr G was paid, so Ill not go over this again  in much 
detail.
Mr G says that Legal and General should have told him in 1998 when the calculations  were 
done, that the benefits were being  compared using a retirement age of 65. Had they done so 
he says he wouldve left his pension until age 65.
And hes also said that the Legal and General pension product wasnt  suitable for him going 
forward and this shouldve  been  discovered  in the review. The reason Mr G gave was 
because of the retirement age of 55. 
Ref: DRN00300712In terms of mis-sale,  essentially by carrying out the review, Legal and General were 
accepting that the policy  was mis-sold. The purpose  of the pension review  was to put this 
right. Unfortunately,  the assumptions set out by the regulator have  with hindsight been  quite  
far wide of the mark. And sadly this had often  led to people finding  at retirement they are 
significantly worse off. Mr G has my sympathy  but the review was a one off exercise 
designed to draw a line under the pension mis-sale.  As the issue of mis-sale has already 
been considered,  I wont  be asking Legal and General to look at this again.
So, whilst the transfer of his OPS to a personal pension  can be said to have  been  
unsuitable. Had things  gone as expected when the redress was paid and had the 
assumptions been reflected in reality, Mr G at age 65 ought to have broadly had the same 
value of benefits with Legal and General as hed given up in his OPS. 
It seems  that much of what Mr G believes Legal and General has done wrong is centred on 
the retirement date of 55.
Commonly a retirement  date set on a personal pension is the date that customers can take 
their benefits  without penalty,  however  Mr G ought  to have had an option  to defer taking 
benefits and leave it until 65 or later.  So had Mr G wanted to take his benefits in line with his 
OPS, I think he couldve  done  so. I suspect that the retirement age was set to age 55 either 
because this is what Mr G chose when  he was sold the pension with Legal and General. Or 
this couldve been  the generic retirement date used.
Legal and General have  told us that Mr G took his benefits at 53 whilst Mr G says it was 
aged 55, but in any event whether it was 53 or 55 makes no difference  to this complaint.
As this retirement date could be deferred to 65, the fact that the retirement date was set to 
age 55 wouldnt have  affected the calculations.  Nor would it mean that the product wasnt a 
suitable vehicle  for Mr Gs pension going  forward  as Mr G wouldnt have  been  restricted to 
taking his benefits at age 55.
If Mr G has concerns about what happened  in the lead up taking his benefits, hed need to 
raise this with Legal and General as this is a new issue  and cant be dealt with as part of this 
decision. 
There was no obligation for Legal  and General to explain the intricacies  of the pension 
review calculation with customers  as this information  can be extremely  complex and most 
wouldnt understand it. Whilst I understand the retirement age a policy  is set at isnt hard to 
understand  when  Mr G transferred his pension  he ought to have been aware of the 
retirement age of his OPS  and he wouldve been  aware that his Legal and General plan was 
set to 55. And as Ive said, Mr G ought  to have had the option to take his benefits at 65 if he 
wished.
So I cant say that Legal and General shouldve done more in 1998, it complied with what  the 
regulator said it needed to do.
In taking his benefits earlier than 65, the fund that Mr G converted  into as an annuity was 
spread over more years than if he took his benefits at age 65. So the annuity that hes being 
paid will be reduced but paid over a longer period. Therefore, when Mr G compares the 
figures he wouldve  been due from the OPS at 65 with the benefits  he actually took from his 
pension with Legal and General at 53, the difference is exaggerated.  But for his information, 
Ref: DRN00300713whilst I dont doubt there is still a loss, if he hasnt already done so he needs  to also take into 
account the benefits hes already received at from age 53 to 65 for a fair comparison.
Ultimately, I dont dispute that Mr G says he is worse off because  he was advised by Legal  
and General to transfer out of his OPS. And I can completely understand Mr Gs feelings 
around this. However,  Legal and Generals already paid redress  in line with the Pension 
Review, so its done what is required of it to address this situation.
In conclusion, Im sorry to hear that Mr G has lost out because of the advice that Legal and 
General gave him to transfer  out of his OPS. But I dont think  Legal and General needs  to do 
anything more to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0030071