K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1995.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs As credit  card account  when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mrs As application for the credit card. It includes a section about 
PPI, with equally prominent options  to take or decline  the cover. Theres a tick in the 
box to indicate  that Mrs A wished  to take PPI. I acknowledge that Mrs As 
representatives have  commented that theres  no evidence that the box wasnt  ticked  by 
a member of staff at the bank. I accept that its possible that the box was ticked  by a 
member of the banks  staff. But Mrs A signed  the form. The section  on PPI was clearly 
set out and Im satisfied  that it would have  been clear that the cover  was optional. If 
Mrs A hadnt wanted the cover, Id have expected  her to raise  this at the time. 
 Id need  very strong evidence to persuade me that a member  of the banks staff ticked  
the box for PPI after Mrs A signed the form. And I cant  fairly  conclude  that that was the 
case, based purely  on what Mrs A or her representative says. Ive also borne in mind 
that the premiums  for the PPI would have been  shown on Mrs As credit  card 
statements. I acknowledge that shes told us she noticed the premiums, but assumed 
that it was a form of interest and a mandatory  element . But I think its unlikely that the 
premiums would  have been displayed in such a way as to suggest they were  interest.  
And given that Im satisfied that it would have been clear to Mrs A from the application 
form that PPI was an optional extra, Id have  expected her to query the charges on her 
statements with Barclays if she hadnt wanted  the cover.
 Taking everything into account,  I think Mrs A decided to take the PPI, knowing that she 
had a choice about it  although  I can understand how she may no longer remember 
this, so many years  after the event.
Ref: DRN01474682 Mrs As told us she thinks  she applied for the credit card by post,  and that Barclays  
didnt give her advice or recommend  that she take out the insurance.  Barclays no 
longer has a record of how Mrs A applied for the card.  So Ive treated the case  as if 
Mrs A applied for the card in a branch  of the bank. This is to her advantage, as it 
means its likely  that Barclays would have recommended the PPI to her. And this, in 
turn, means  that it had a responsibility to check that the cover was right for her. But it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mrs As circumstances 
at the time.
 Mrs As told us shed have been  entitled to statutory sick pay from her employer. And 
she says shed  have  been entitled to some redundancy pay. The policy document is no 
longer available. But based  on other policies sold around the time, its likely that if 
Mrs A had made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would  have  helped with her monthly credit  card repayments for up to 
12 months per successful claim. So she could have  used any payments from her 
employer to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
 Overall,  I think the PPI could have  been useful to Mrs A, especially given that her sick 
pay was limited,  and shes told us that aside from any payments from her employer, 
she didnt have  any other means she could have relied  on to make her monthly  credit  
card repayments if shed been off sick or if shed lost her job.
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained that Im satisfied  that Mrs A chose to take out the 
policy. So she appears to have wanted  this type of cover,  even if shes understandably 
forgotten that now. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, 
she wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  And the policy  
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
 So taking everything into account,  I think its unlikely Mrs A would have  made a 
different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs As comments, including  what  her representative has said 
about the possibility that she was pressured into taking the cover.  But although Ive assumed 
that Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs A, pressure is another matter.  And I cant  fairly 
conclude that she was pressured  into taking  the policy without stronger evidence. So these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0147468