K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained Skrill Limited  did nothing to help him when he disputed  a transaction  in 
March 2019.
background
Mr S had been approached about  buying  some mobile phones and used his Skrill account to 
send $600 in March 2019. He realised quite quickly that delivery  timescales hed been 
promised hadnt  been met. He complained to Skrill. They said there was little they could do 
as the recipient had already taken the money  out of their account.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.  After reviewing the evidence, 
including some checks Skrill  had done  with the recipient before releasing the funds and 
Mr S, our investigator  believed  Skrill could  have done more. He asked  them to refund $600  
and relevant fees and pay 8% simple interest.  He also felt Skrill could have done more in 
how they handled Mr Ss complaint. He asked  them  to pay £100 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Skrill disagreed  with this outcome and have  asked an ombudsman to consider this 
complaint.
Mr S also wrote in with a detailed explanation  why he felt £800 compensation should be 
payable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
Im not going  to cover all the points raised in previous  views  in detail. The views  of 
1 April and 1 October 2020  explain  the regulations which guide how we review these cases. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think  are the key issues  
here and which impact the decision Im making. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
I can reassure both parties that Ive considered all the submissions  carefully. That includes 
Mr Ss clear arguments why he believes he should be paid more compensation than £100.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. Again our rules allow  me to do this.
Firstly as our investigator has stated, there is no dispute Mr S authorised the transaction 
which was initiated  on 5 March 2019.  But that isnt all we consider. Skrill has a duty to 
exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to the interest  of its customers and to 
follow good industry practice to keep customers accounts safe. This includes identifying  
Ref: DRN07145062vulnerable consumers who may be particularly susceptible to scams  and looking  out for 
payments which  might  indicate the Mr S is at risk of financial  harm.
I dont believe Skrill would  have  been in a position to identify whether Mr S was a vulnerable 
consumer. Skrill isnt specifically a payment mechanism  that customers  would come to 
without some online experience. I can also see from Mr Ss other statements that hes not a 
stranger to other online payments schemes.
But I can see Skrill were aware  within a short period of Mr S initiating this disputed 
transaction that Mr S had disputed  an earlier transaction. The evidence  also shows Skrill had 
enough of a concern before Mr S contacted them sto query this transaction  with the 
recipient. Im surprised  they didnt raise this same concern with Mr S as the sender of the 
payment. As our investigator has demonstrated I think theyd  have got a very different 
response which would have led them to blocking the withdrawal of the funds by the recipient.
The evidence leads  me to conclude that Skrill were in a position to do something about this 
transaction and could  have stopped  it  particularly as they already had doubts about  the 
recipients activities.
On this basis I think its fair and reasonable for Skrill to refund the money for Mr Ss 
transaction. Theyll  also need to pay 8% simple  interest for the period Mr S is without these 
funds.
Ive considered Mr Ss submission that Skrill caused  him considerable anxiety. But Im not 
going to change the compensation Im asking them to pay. This case isnt completely 
straightforward so I dont think any failings by Skrill would have caused all the problems Mr S 
had. I dont dispute this all caused Mr S a level of anxiety but some  of this is down  to the 
actions of the fraudster  rather  than Skrill.
I know Mr S has said he had costs when he was without these funds. But I cant get around  
the fact that he authorised this transaction so Im not sure it would be fair to ask Skrill to pay 
him more.  I have however asked Skrill to pay Mr S compensation in euros as I cant  see that 
sterling would  be much use to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Skrill Limited to:
Refund $600 to Mr S;
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from 5 March  2019 to the date of settlement; 
and
Pay Mr S €120 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0714506