K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains Amigo Loans Ltd irresponsibly  lent to her. She says the loan she was 
approved for was unaffordable to her. She says this caused her financial detriment as she 
paid additional  interest and charges.
background
Ms C took out a loan with Amigo in October  2017 for a total of £2,500. This was to be repaid  
over 60 monthly instalments of £98.81. Ms C says at the time the loan was approved she 
was in financial difficulties. She says had Amigo completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to her.
Amigo says it lent responsibly  to Ms C. It says it completed proportionate  checks which 
included an income  and expenditure assessment (which was compared  to the national 
average) and a credit file check. Amigo says these  checks showed  the loan was affordable,  
and therefore  its decision to lend was fair.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He felt Amigo  hadnt conducted 
reasonable and proportionate checks. He argued  that had Amigo  done this it wouldve seen 
the loan was unaffordable  to Ms C. He highlighted further checks   such as looking through  
bank statements  wouldve shown Ms C was making payments to debt collectors, as well 
as relying on family members for help paying  essential outgoings. Amigo disagreed with the 
assessment and asked  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Cs complaint.
Amigo needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks to be able to understand if 
any lending  was affordable to Ms C. The relevant rules dont set out which specific  checks it 
has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks  could 
include things such as a customers  income  (over the full term of the loan), and their 
outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided  including  the total amount of credit,  amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. 
As Amigo gave Ms C a loan that was to be repaid in instalments, the checks  which it 
conducted had to provide enough information for it to able to decide if Ms C could afford the 
monthly payments  when  they became due for the duration of the intended  term. And even if 
reasonable and proportionate checks have been  completed, the lender still has an obligation 
to make sure it doesnt lend irresponsibly to a borrower. 
Amigo says it completed  an income  and expenditure assessment on Ms C, which  included  
comparing her declared  expenses against  the national average. It says it also completed a 
credit file check on her before deciding to lend. It says after completing these checks it was 
satisfied Ms C had enough  disposable income to meet the monthly  repayments  of £98.81.
Ref: DRN04141652Ive considered what Amigo has said about  the affordability of the loan based  on the checks  
it completed, but ultimately, I disagree with its decision to lend. As Ive explained above it 
isnt enough for Amigo to just complete checks,  it still needs  to consider carefully the 
information it is supplied  by a borrower before deciding  to lend. 
Having looked  through the information  provided Im not persuaded Amigos checks went  far 
enough in this instance. I appreciate Amigo says it checked  Ms Cs credit  file and compared 
Ms Cs declared income and expenditure against the national average, but Im not satisfied 
that was proportionate  enough in this case.  Ms Cs credit file shows  a number of historic  
defaults and shows  that she had outstanding credit commitments. Considering  this, I dont 
think it is fair for Amigo  to compare to the national average,  because in my opinion  the 
information on her credit  file suggested  that these  averages didnt reflect her circumstances. 
This means  it wasnt proportionate  for Amigo  to rely on these checks  alone before deciding 
to lend. 
Instead, I believe Amigo shouldve conduct  more thorough  checks  to understand if Ms Cs 
income and expenditure was enough  to meet this ongoing commitment. It could have done 
this by obtaining copies of Ms Cs bank statements. Had it done this Im persuaded Amigo  
wouldve been in a better position to understand Ms Cs financial situation before  it decided 
to lend to her. 
Ive reviewed Ms Cs bank statements from around the time of this loan. Looking through 
these statements it is clear Ms C is in a poor financial  position. Ms Cs only income was in 
the form of benefit  payments from a number  of different government  departments.  There are 
payments being  made to debt collectors which demonstrates Ms C mayve had issues  with 
credit repayment in the past. There are also money  transfers from family members  which  are 
being used to help meet Ms Cs outgoings.  
Having reviewed this information, Im satisfied Ms C wouldve always had difficulties meeting 
the ongoing monthly payments of this loan. And Im satisfied on balance, had Amigo 
completed further checks, it wouldve  realised the loan was unaffordable to Ms C and 
decided not to lend to her.
So on this basis, Im satisfied this complaint should  be upheld. This means Ms C should only 
have to pay back the money  she has borrowed  from Amigo.  This means Amigo  will need  to 
refund the interest and charges Ms C mayve  paid so far. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint.
I require Amigo Loans Ltd to:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Ms Cs account  from when it was 
opened;
Treat any payments that Ms C has made as a reduction of the principle amount;
If this results in Ms C having paid more than what she was initially  lent, then any 
extra should  be treated as an overpayment  and refunded to Miss C plus 8% simple  
interest on this amount  from date of payment to date of settlement;
Ref: DRN04141653If an outstanding  balance remains on Ms Cs account after all adjustments have been 
made, then Amigo Loans Ltd needs  to come to suitable repayment plan with Ms C to 
pay off the remaining  amount;
Remove any adverse  information on Ms Cs credit file in relation to this loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue & Customs requires Amigo Loans Ltd to take off tax from this interest.  Amigo 
Loans Ltd must give Ms C a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN0414165