K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS) unfairly charged her 
for damage  to her car when she voluntary  terminated her hire purchase agreement. 
background
Ms C voluntary terminated (VT)  her hire purchase  agreement in September  2018 as she 
was taking on a new car. She said that she left the car at the selling dealership  on the 
assumption it would be picked up within a few days by BMW. 
For a number of reasons,  the car was not picked up from the dealership  by BMWFS  until late 
November 2018  and the car was not inspected for damage until after this.
In December 2018 Ms C received an invoice from BMWFS  for £597 in respect of damage  to 
the car. The damage was as follows:
Scuffs exceeding 50mm  on all four alloy wheels £26 per wheel
Gouge to the rear left tyre £86
Chipped windscreen £150
Dented front passenger door £114
Dented rear left quarter panel £114
Scuffed quarter panel arch £29
Ms C complained to BMWFS as she said the damage was not present when she handed the 
car to the dealership in September  2018. 
The investigator thought Ms Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  She said Ms C had made it 
clear she was leaving the car at the dealership and should have been made aware there  
were problems picking  the car up. She said she thought some of the damage to the car may 
have occurred while it was at the dealership so Ms C shouldnt be responsible  for the cost of 
this. She asked BMWFS to reduce the invoice by £293 and pay Ms C compensation of £100 
for distress and inconvenience.  
BMWFS didnt respond to the investigators assessment so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Ms Cs agreement permitted BMWFS to charge her if upon  voluntary 
termination the car was not returned  in good repair and condition. But this isnt my only 
consideration. I must decide overall what I think is fair and reasonable in this complaint. 
Ive considered first whether the damage was potentially  chargeable taking  into account relevant 
industry guidelines  as it wouldnt  be fair to ask Ms C to pay this in any event if it wasnt.
To help me decide this Ive considered The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association  
(BVRLA) guide The Industry  Fair Wear  & Tear Standard. This sets out industry standards 
for acceptable damage for drivers of leased and financed cars so I think its relevant  industry  
guidance that I should give consideration to and a good starting point. 
Ref: DRN09580832Scuffs exceeding 50mm  on all four alloy wheels
The relevant  section of the BVRLA  guidance relating to alloy wheels sets out that scuffs 
totalling more  than 50mm on the circumference of the alloy wheel are not acceptable. 
Although the pictures BMWFS have provided from its inspection dont show  measurements 
of the scuffs, I think its clear enough from these pictures that the total of the scuffs does 
exceed 50mm  on all four wheels.  Ive noted  also that the wheels are black, and the scuffs 
show the metal underneath so the scratches  were prominent and would likely have affected 
the value of the vehicle  if not repaired.  I think this was potentially chargeable damage.
Gouge to the rear left tyre
The BVRLA guidance says there must  be no damage to the sidewalls  of tread  on tyres. 
BMWs pictures  show a large chunk missing  from the rear left tyre. This is a safety issue too 
given the integrity  of the tyre is affected. So again,  I think this was also potentially  
chargeable damage. 
Chipped windscreen
The BVRLA guidance says that chips to the windscreen are not acceptable unless they are 
repaired to a professional standard, the work  is warrantied, and the chip is out of the drivers line 
of sight. The drivers line of sight is an area defined by the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency 
as, the swept area of the windscreen, 290 mm centred on the steering wheel.  From BMWs 
pictures the chip is at the bottom of the windscreen, not clearly in the 290mm zone from the 
centre of the steering wheel,  not in the swept area of the windscreen and on blackened  glass.  It 
would not affect  the drivers  line of sight. Its not clear whether this work  was repaired or 
warrantied but it doesnt look like BMWFS  even  asked Ms C. In any event, given the size of the 
chip and its location  I dont think it was fair to charge for a replacement windscreen. 
Dented front passenger door
BVRLA guidance says that dents up to 10mm  are acceptable provided the paint surface  is 
not broken. BMWs picture of the dent shows the paint surface is broken and the surface  is 
dented. I think  this was potentially  chargeable damage. 
Dented rear left quarter panel
BMWs pictures  do not show the dent is more than 10mm. But they do show  the paint 
surface is broken  and there is evidence of an impact in that area and on the nearby quarter 
panel. I think this was damage  was potentially chargeable. 
Scuffed quarter panel arch
The BVRLA guidance says that scuffs up to 25mm  are acceptable on wheel arch trims.  Its 
not clear from BMWFSs  photos that the scuffs here are over 25mm as there is no 
measuring tool in any of them and its not obvious  that the scuffs exceed this limit. I dont  
think this was damage was chargeable. 
All in all, this means that regardless of what happened, I dont think it was fair for charge    
Ms C for £179 of the £597 total cost of damages. Ill consider now whether I still think  its fair 
that Ms C is charged for the remaining damage given the events  of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN09580833Ms C said the car was returned to BMWFS  when it was left with the dealership  on                    
24 September 2018 and any damage that occurred after that should not be her 
responsibility. BMWFS  said the car was Ms Cs responsibility up to the point it was collected 
in November 2018, regardless of where  the car was being kept. So it said even if the 
damage did happen while the car was with the dealership Ms C still needs to pay for it. 
Ms C emailed her signed VT documents  to BMWFS with a covering  email on                       
20 September 2018. Within this email she explains she has booked an MOT  with the selling  
dealership for 24 September 2018 and will be leaving the car there for collection. From 
BMWs contact notes it looks like it uploaded this email and the VT paperwork to its systems 
on 24 September 2018. So BMWFS was on notice  that Ms Cs car was ready  for collection 
and with the dealership. 
BMWFS wrote to Ms C on this date explaining  that its collection agent  would be in touch 
within the next five working days. This looks like a standard worded  letter  and there is no 
acknowledgment from that it needs to pick the car up from the dealership rather  than Ms C. 
I think it would have  been useful at this point to have acknowledged  this and to remind  Ms C 
that the car was her responsibility until it was collected. 
From BMWs contact  notes it looks like the next time contact  was made  with Ms C was                 
11 October 2018. Given BMWFS had been  made  aware the car had been left at the selling 
dealership, it, or its agent, probably  should  have contacted the dealership  rather than Ms C. 
But regardless of this, contact to make the collection was still not made  within the promised 
five working days of 24 September 2018. 
Miss C spoke to BMWFS  on 15 October  2018  and explained again  the car had been  left with 
the dealership.  This prompted BMWFS to contact  the dealership and arrange a collection 
date of 23 October 2018. 
Up to this point, I think BMWFS was responsible for the delay in picking up the car. It knew 
Ms C had left the car with the dealership on 24 September 2018 yet had taken a month to 
get the collection arranged. 
By the time of the arranged collection on 23 October  2018  the first MOT had become due  
which happened on 26 September  2018.  This meant  the collection on 23 October 2018 was 
aborted because  the agent could not drive the car away from the dealership. 
The collection was eventually rescheduled for 15 November 2018. However, the dealership  
misplaced the keys on that day so the collection was aborted  again. The car was then 
successfully collected  on 26 November 2018.  
I dont think I can reasonably say that BMWFS was responsible for all the delays between        
23 October 2018 and 26 November  2018. It looks like the dealership had told Ms C it would 
carry out a MOT on her car by 26 September 2018  but didnt and this resulted in the first 
aborted collection. And it lost the keys on another occasion. 
But even with that said, at no point during this period does it look like BMWFS told Ms C 
about the delay or that she would  continue to be responsible for the car should anything  
happen to it. I think  it should have explained  this to Ms C as she may have taken a different 
course of action  such as picking the car back up or arranging  for the MOT  to take place.  
Ref: DRN09580834This is important because Ms C says that the damage she was charged for wasnt present 
when she left the car with the dealership. And the dealership  has itself confirmed in an email 
to Ms C that your car was not left with us in that condition (referring to the damage listed on 
the inspection  report in December 2018). So, it seems possible that some of the damage did 
occur while the car was with the dealership. 
Looking again  at the damage listed on the inspection report, I agree with the investigator that 
the damage to all four alloy wheels and the rear left tyre was probably  caused by Ms C given 
the car would need to have been  driven  around  for this kind of damage to occur.  And given 
what Ive said about this earlier in my decision, I think its fair that she pays  for this.
Of the rest of the damage listed  (which Ive said is potentially chargeable), it is difficult to 
know what may have happened  before Ms C left the car with the dealership  and what  
happened after as there is no vehicle report from the time Ms C handed  the car to the 
dealership. Unlike the investigator, I dont  think there  is enough evidence  to say which of the 
remaining items of damage from the report are more likely to have happened while the car 
was at the dealership.
But overall, taking  account of the delays in picking  the car up, the lack of information about 
who was responsible for the car during those delays, and the likelihood that not all of the 
damage was caused by Ms C before she dropped the car off at the dealership,  I dont think  it 
would be fair for BMWFS to charge  for all of the remaining damage  on the inspection report. 
With this in mind, I think the fair thing to do (accounting both for the damage Ive said Ms C 
should pay, and the amount  that BMWFS should  not have charged to begin with) is to 
reduce the remaining bill. The investigator recommended that BMWFS reduce the bill by 
£293. I think this is fair and accounts  for the possibility that not all of the potentially 
chargeable damage happened while Ms C had the car. I understand Ms C has already paid 
the damage charges so BMWFS should  refund the £293 to her. 
I can see that it would have been a shock for Ms C to receive a large invoice months  after 
she thought shed handed the car back.  I think this was in part caused by the lack of updates  
and information  from BMWFS about the collection. So, I do think BMWFS  has caused Ms C 
distress and inconvenience. I think the compensation of £100 recommended  by the 
investigator is fair. 
If BMWFS has recorded  any adverse information in respect of the damage  charges on Ms 
Cs credit  file, it should arrange to have this removed. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. To put 
things right BMW  Financial Services (GB) Limited  must:
refund Ms C £293 plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the date it was paid until 
the date of settlement*;
pay Ms C compensation  of £100  for distress and inconvenience**, and;
remove any adverse information from Ms Cs credit file.
Ref: DRN09580835*If BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much  its taken  
off. It should  also give Ms C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
** BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited must pay this compensation within  28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Ms C accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0958083