K822xcomplaint
Mrs Bs complaint is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc delayed  the transfer of her investment 
portfolio to a new firm.
background 
One of our investigators  addressed the complaint and concluded that:
The transfer process lasted from around January 2018 (when Mrs Bs request was 
made) to June  2018 (when the transfer began)  and then to September  2018 (when 
the transfer was completed.
The process lasted  excessively beyond the 12 weeks that Barclays told her it could 
take. Furthermore, it did not give her updates when she requested  them, it 
erroneously transferred her account to its debt management function and it 
incorrectly applied charges to her account.
Barclays offered Mrs B £100  for the flaws in its service but, overall, Mrs B should be 
paid a total of £450  for the trouble and upset caused  by the flaws in its service.
Mrs B accepted this outcome but requested, in addition, that Barclays  refund all fees it had 
charged and received  for both her ISA and investment/trading accounts from March  2018 
because she had not received the service  that those fees paid for; and that Barclays transfer 
to her new ISA account (with the new firm) her ISA cash balance (that was with Barclays  at 
the time). The investigator agreed  with Mrs Bs requests and amended  her settlement 
proposal accordingly. She also verified  the correct amount of fees related to the ISA account 
and confirmed that no fees applied  to the trading account. Barclays  agreed to the 
investigators amended  proposal.
Barclays refunded the relevant fees to Mrs B within around a month. However,  its payment 
of £450 and its transfer of the ISA cash balance were delayed. The investigator assisted 
further in order  to compel Barclays to complete these  tasks. The £450  payment was made 
by Barclays around a fortnight thereafter, however its transfer of the ISA cash balance 
remained outstanding.
Around a month thereafter Mrs B updated the investigator and told her that Barclays had 
erroneously transferred the ISA cash balance to her bank account and not her new ISA 
account, thereby  causing her loss of the tax free ISA wrapper. The investigator shared this 
update with Barclays, asked it to rectify the matter and proposed an additional payment of 
£100 to Mrs B for the extended trouble and upset she was facing as a result  of Barclays 
continuing delay  (and error) in resolving  the matter.  Barclays agreed with this.
Mrs B subsequently received the additional  £100 payment, but the ISA cash balance  transfer  
remained unresolved.  This continued  to be the case up to around a month after the 
additional payment was made, when the investigator concluded that a further  additional 
£100 payment  should be made  to Mrs B for the ongoing trouble and upset she was facing as 
a result of Barclays ongoing  delay in resolving the ISA cash  balance  transfer.  This proposal  
also reflected the trouble and upset  caused  to her by a fee charge that had been  mistakenly  
issued to her for her Barclays account. 
Barclays agreed to make  the further additional  payment and Mrs B accepted the 
investigators proposal in this respect. However,  she requested that the matter  should 
nevertheless be referred for an ombudsmans decision as she considered  that Barclays  had 
Ref: DRN02589952displayed a pattern  of not properly resolving  outstanding matters. Mrs B then confirmed that 
the ISA cash balance transfer had been completed, but that the further  additional £100 
payment had not been received  and that a nominal/goodwill payment of £10.06 that also 
appears to have been agreed by Barclays had not been received. The matter  was then 
referred to an ombudsman and, up to the last entry in the case-file,  it does not appear that 
Mrs B has received the outstanding total payment of £110.06.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted  responsibility for the initial delay in transferring Mrs Bs portfolio. It 
also appears to have accepted and agreed  with all of the investigators  proposals to 
compensate Mrs B for the initial trouble and upset  caused to her and then for the additional 
trouble and upset  caused to her by Barclays extended delays in resolving the matter.  
The majority of the payments have been made by Barclays  and received by Mrs B. The only 
outstanding issue  is the payment of £110.06  described in the background section above. 
This too appears  to have been  agreed between both parties. I consider that it is not a matter 
in dispute and that it is a reasonable payment  in addition to the previous payments that 
Barclays has made  that Mrs B is entitled to for the ongoing trouble and upset she has been 
caused in her complaint. If Barclays has not already done so, it must  pay Mrs B £110.06 in 
this respect. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I order Barclays  Bank UK Plc to 
make the outstanding total payment of £110.06 to her, if it has not already been  paid, for the 
additional trouble and upset that has been caused  to her (as described  above).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258995