K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of payment protection  insurance  (PPI). Im aware Mr G 
made complaints about both a Marks & Spencer  loan and a personal reserve account. 
The loan didnt  actually  have any PPI with it. So to be clear, this decision  is about the PPI 
sold with the Marks & Spencer personal  reserve account in December 1996.  
A company called Allianz Insurance plc is now responsible for these types of sale,  so Ill be 
referring to Allianz  throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and said the PPI wasnt mis-sold. The 
company representing Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G says he wasnt aware  PPI had been added to his account.  We no longer have access 
to the original application form Mr G used to set up his account as it was over 22 years ago. 
But weve been  sent an example of the type of form that was used at the time. This form 
corresponds with many  others  Ive seen.
There was a section  on the form which was about  PPI and there  was a box to tick if it was 
something that Mr G wanted to have. To get the PPI added, Mr G would have also needed  
to fill out his name in the person insured box and enter his date of birth. He would also 
have needed to sign the application form at the bottom of the page. 
I also see that Allianz has said Mr G went on to make a successful claim on the policy,  
something he obviously wouldnt have  been able to do if he didnt know he had any PPI.
So overall I think theres strong and persuasive  evidence that Mr G agreed to the PPI and 
would have been able to see that it was optional. 
I dont think this was an advised  sale because I havent seen any of the type of paperwork  
we associate with advised sales. So I think Mr Gs application form was filled out and then 
sent off to be processed, on a non-advised basis. Again, this corresponds with many similar 
cases Ive seen.
This means  it was for Mr G to decide  for himself  whether the PPI was right for him. He still 
had a right to be given  information that was clear so he could make an informed decision 
about what he wanted to do.
Obviously all this happened  a very long time ago and I cant say Mr G was told everything  he 
should have been. And I can see ways in which the form could have been set out more  
Ref: DRN02541852clearly. But Im afraid this doesnt change my overall decision, because  I think Mr G would 
have probably  still taken out the cover.
This is because I think he could see the policy  wasnt something he needed  to buy. I also 
think he was eligible for the cover  and not caught  by any of the main exclusions we tend to 
see in some of these policies. I can see the cost was disclosed on the form at the point 
where he was asked to make his choice. And at 65p for every £100 outstanding on his card 
account, I think the PPI was probably  affordable for him.
I think the benefits on this PPI compared well with other PPI policies  Ive seen in that Mr G 
could have had his balance reduced  by 15% each  month if hed needed to claim.  This could 
have continued  until the balance was paid off. So I think the policy  was of use to him and as 
a non-advised  sale, Im afraid Mr G made his own decision  about whether or not to add the 
cover.
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint and I dont  direct Allianz Insurance plc to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0254185