K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Satsuma provided  to Mr H between  January 
and August 2017. Mr Hs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan 
numberPrincipal
(£)Start End Total 
Repayment
(£)
1 100 02.01.17 25.01.17 189.60
2 1000 01.02.17 06.02.17 1,992
3 200 09.02.17 03.03.17 398.40
4 1000 03.03.17 07.04.17 1,992
5 550 09.04.17 25.04.17 1,095.60
6 1500 21.08.17 arrears 2,988
7 1000 21.08.17 arrears 1,992
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint and thought  loans five to seven shouldnt have 
been given. Satsuma disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 October  2019. A copy is attached and 
forms part of this final decision.
Mr H and Satsuma both agreed with my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, and as they are both in 
agreement with my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from the position  set out in 
my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN09754032putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans two to five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans two to five from Mr Hs credit file;
the pattern  of borrowing  from loan six onwards means any information  recorded 
about loans six and seven is adverse. So all entries about loans six and seven 
should be removed  from Mr Hs credit  file.
I understand  there were outstanding balances on loans six and seven when Mr H 
brought his complaint to this Service. I dont know if these loans remain outstanding 
or if Mr H has since repaid them or theyve been written  off.
If there  are amounts remaining, Satsuma should  remove any interest  and charges 
that make  up the balances, and treat the payments Mr H made  as payments 
towards the capital  amounts. 
If Mr H has made further payments, Satsuma should  refund any payments above the 
original capital amounts  to Mr H, along  with 8% per annum simple interest.
But if Satsuma does  not own the outstanding balance then it must liaise  with the 
current debt owner to ensure Mr H does not make  any further  payments for these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I partially  uphold  Mr Hs complaint.  I direct  Provident Personal Credit  
Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) to pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09754033Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr H says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading  as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  seven instalment loans  Satsuma provided to Mr H between  January and 
August 2017.  Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Principal
(£)Start End Total  
Repayment
(£)
1 100 02.01.17 25.01.17 189.60
2 1000 01.02.17 06.02.17 1,992
3 200 09.02.17 03.03.17 398.40
4 1000 03.03.17 07.04.17 1,992
5 550 09.04.17 25.04.17 1,095.60
6 1500 21.08.17 arrears 2,988
7 1000 21.08.17 arrears 1,992
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint  and thought  loans five to seven shouldnt  have been given. 
Satsuma disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr H could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN09754034the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether Mr 
H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
The adjudicator concluded  that it wasnt unreasonable for Satsuma to arrange loans one to four for Mr 
H. I agree that it wasnt  unreasonable for Satsuma to provide loan one.
This loan was arranged during the early  part of the lending relationship, and from what  Ive seen there 
was nothing to suggest to Satsuma that it wasnt appropriate to arrange that loan.
But Im mindful that when  Mr H arranged  loan one, it was taken  with the intention  that it would be paid 
off over six months. In fact, Mr H repaid loan one much sooner than provided for in the loan 
agreement. 
Loan two was for significantly more than loan one, and Mr H intended  to repay it over twelve months. 
In fact, Mr H withdrew from loan two a few days after taking it out. 
Loan three was also to be repaid over twelve months, but Mr H paid it off much sooner  than provided 
for in the loan agreement. 
Given the intended  repayment  periods  for loans two and three, and the significant  increase in the 
amount borrowed for loan two, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Satsuma  to carry out more 
detailed checks of Mr Hs finances. 
I understand Satsuma asked  Mr H about his income  and checked  his credit file. It says it took account 
of information on the credit file and also built in some safeguards in calculating  Mr Hs disposable 
income.  
But I think it wouldve been reasonable for Satsuma to verify what  Mr H had told it about his income  
and outgoings. Had it done so, I think Satsuma wouldve discovered Mr H was borrowing  from six 
other short-term  lenders, as well as managing a long-term loan, a credit card and several  catalogue  
debts. Satsuma wouldve  also become  aware  of the extent of 
Mr Hs gambling  spend. And with that knowledge, I think  it wouldve  been reasonable  for Satsuma to 
conclude that loans two and three were unlikely to be sustainable for Mr H.
So I dont think Satsuma wouldve agreed loans two or three.  
Ref: DRN09754035Loan four was taken out on the same day Mr H repaid loan three  which he repaid early. It was for a 
significantly higher amount than loan three, and was intended to be repaid over twelve  months. 
Mr H repaid loan four early, and took out loan five a couple of days later. This loan was to be repaid 
over twelve months. 
Given Mr Hs borrowing history when he took out loans  four and five, I think  it wouldve  been 
reasonable for Satsuma  to have carried out the detailed  checks of his finances that Ive mentioned 
above. And had it done so, I dont think Satsuma  wouldve agreed loans four and five. Thats  because  
by that point Mr H was spending on average around £3,000 a month on gambling and around £4,000 
on short-term loan repayments. 
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr H, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which it should reasonably  have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful.  And so Satsuma should have realised that it shouldnt have  provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan six. I say 
this because:
At this point Satsuma  ought  to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr H had taken out six loans in nearly eight months. So Satsuma ought  to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow further to cover  the hole 
repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that 
Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Hs first loan was for £100 and loan six was for £1,500.  At this point Satsuma ought  to 
have known  that Mr H was not likely  borrowing  to meet a temporary  shortfall in his income but 
to meet an ongoing need.  
All Mr Hs loans, apart from his first, were to be repaid over at 12 months but he repaid them 
early. This isnt how these loans were intended to be used and I think  Satsuma should  have 
been concerned  about how stable Mr Hs finances were by this point.
Loans  six and seven were arranged on the same day, and were  for £2,500 in total. 
I think  that Mr H lost out because Satsuma  arranged loans six and seven.  I say this because the 
number of loans Mr H borrowed was likely to have had negative  implications on his ability to access  
mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans  two to five and also loans  six and seven  and Satsuma  
should put things right.
putting things  right  what Satsuma needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans  two to five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  two to five from Mr Hs credit file;
the pattern of borrowing from loan six onwards means any information recorded about loans 
six and seven  is adverse. So all entries about loans  six and seven should  be removed from 
Mr Hs credit file.
Ref: DRN09754036I understand there were outstanding balances on loans six and seven when Mr H brought 
his complaint to this Service. I dont know if these loans  remain outstanding or if Mr H has 
since repaid them  or theyve been written  off.
If there are amounts remaining, Satsuma should remove any interest and charges  that 
make up the balances, and treat the payments Mr H made as payments towards the 
capital amounts. 
If Mr H has made  further payments, Satsuma should refund any payments above the original 
capital amounts to Mr H, along with 8% per annum simple interest .
But if Satsuma does not own the outstanding balance then it must liaise with the current  
debt owner  to ensure  Mr H does not make  any further payments for these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  Satsuma must give Mr 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that Im going to partially uphold  
Mr Hs complaint. I intend to direct Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma  Loans) to 
pay Mr H compensation  as set out above.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0975403