K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002. Mrs C 
says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. But based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. I 
say this having seen a copy of her credit card application form which  included  a section for 
PPI. In this there is both a yes and no option for the policy   and the yes box has been  
ticked. Mrs C then signed the application form consenting to the information contained within 
it. And as this was a postal application form, Mrs C made this decision freely in her own 
space and time and without any involvement  from Capital One other than the provision of the 
application form itself.  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if the policy was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs C says the PPI wasnt of any use for her as she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employers and wouldve  had support  from friends  and family  if needed.  But, while  Im sure 
Mrs Cs friends  and family wouldve wanted  to support her, help from others  cant always be 
relied upon as their circumstances  can also change over time.  The PPI policy wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months in the event Mrs C was unable to work and on top of her sick pay 
entitlement. So these funds  couldve been used for other expenses.  And so I still think Mrs C 
wouldve found the PPI useful, particularly  when her sick pay reduced to half. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But Capital One 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs C, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN04510652To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this by 
offsetting this amount  against the outstanding  balance on her account, so I dont award  any 
further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0451065