K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) have handled  his buildings insurance  
claim unfairly.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case in July 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. I said I was minded  to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part, due to the time it took UKI 
to offer their revised settlement of £7,290.19. But I didnt think the trouble and upset Mr M 
complained of could all fairly be attributed to UKI, as it appeared that he did not want their 
contractors to carry out the required  works themselves, and also because  the quotes he 
obtained failed  to demonstrate what works  were  necessary as part of his insurance  claim. As 
a result,  I said I intended asking UKI to pay a total of £100 compensation.
Mr M responded, expressing  his disagreement with my provisional decision.  In summary, he 
said:
He was never given  the option  of having a like for like repair,  and the only option  was 
for part of the structure to be replaced.
Over  the course of the claim he tried contacting UKI a number of times but was 
constantly ignored, and he found them to be unprofessional in some of the 
interactions he did have with them, which had a detrimental impact on his health.
UKI responded saying they had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  Mr Ms most recent 
points, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr M says he was not given the option  of a like for like repair,  and has provided  a recording 
of a discussion with the second contractor, where  the contractor can be heard talking about  
redecorating and replacing the internal  boarding  and insulation.  This recording is around 
three minutes in length and appears to be just part of the discussion had with the contractor 
when he visited. And on balance, I dont think it adequately demonstrates that Mr M was not 
given the option of having the works completed  by UKIs contractors to return  his property to 
its pre-loss condition. 
I appreciate that Mr M provided quotes for the work  he wanted carried out on the structure.  
But as I set out previously  in my provisional  decision, he did not provide any compelling 
documentation or evidence as part of this to show what works would be necessary as part of 
the claim,  to return his property to its pre-loss condition without any betterment. So as I set 
out previously,  even  if Mr M wasnt given the option  of a repair or reinstatement, I still dont 
think it shows that UKI ought to be held responsible for all of the delays, trouble and upset 
caused throughout his claim,  because  I dont think UKI were presented with enough to 
demonstrate that their settlement offer of £7,209.19  was insufficient to fully indemnify him 
under the policy.
Mr M has further submitted that he was persistently ignored by UKI, and that he found  them  
to be unprofessional. UKI say they have  no record of any messages being left, but Mr M has 
recently sent in a number of call recordings to show that he left various voicemail messages 
Ref: DRN06609022with the claims handler asking to be called back.  It isnt clear why Mr Ms messages were  not 
returned, and I can see how frustrating this could have been. And also I accept that it wasnt 
professional for the contractor to ask if Mr M could potentially change a hospital appointment 
so he could attend the property.
Mr M says that constantly being ignored  has caused him untold  stress that has brought  on 
various other  medical conditions. He has also provided a note from his doctor  that says his 
symptoms have been exacerbated,  in my opinion, over the last 10 months, due to the stress 
related to an ongoing insurance claim. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I dont think there  is enough persuasive evidence  to 
suggest that UKI can fairly be held responsible for all the delays and the total time it took for 
Mr M to receive his final settlement. But in light of the further evidence provided by Mr M, I 
do consider that further compensation is warranted  as a result of the poor service  outlined 
above and the impact  this has had on his health. As a result,  I will be directing UKI to pay an 
additional £100 compensation in recognition of this (i.e. £200 in total),  which I consider to be 
fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct 
UK Insurance Limited  to pay £200  compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06609023COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) have handled  his buildings insurance  claim 
unfairly.
background
Mr M holds a home insurance policy with UKI, on which  he made a claim in May 2018 after his self-
built extension was damaged by flood water during  a storm. UKI surveyed  the damage but said they 
were not prepared  to carry out any remedial works themselves, as the extension had not been 
constructed properly from the outset,  meaning that any rectification of the damage would result in 
betterment. 
As a result, Mr M says that UKI decided  to cash  settle the claim for £7,290.19 based on the structure 
as it was originally built. But he was unhappy with this settlement, as he didnt  think it was substantial 
enough to ensure the property wouldnt sustain further flood damage in the future.  So Mr M submitted 
his own quote for around £14,000, which would cover the costs  of demolishing  the structure, providing 
footings and rebuilding a brick structure. But for the reasons given previously,  UKI refused to 
indemnify him on this basis as they considered  it would result in betterment. The insurer also had 
concerns about the quote provided as it did not appear to be from an established  or reputable building 
company.
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld  the complaint 
as she said UKI were not prepared  to carry out the required  works to Mr Ms property,  so she didnt 
think it was reasonable for the insurer to only pay what  it wouldve cost them to complete the work. 
The investigator asked Mr M to submit a quote for UKI to consider for works  that would return  his 
property to its pre-loss condition, as well as recommending they pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset cause as a result of their handling of the claim.
UKI later highlighted to us that they were in fact prepared  to carry  out the works and return  the 
property to its pre-loss condition, but that Mr M said he was not prepared  to allow UKIs contractors  to 
carry out the work as he wanted to obtain his own quotes. Mr M later provided another  quote  within 
the region of £15,000,  but it still did not appear to be from an established or reputable building 
contractor, so UKI again refused to indemnify him on this basis.
Mr M later submitted an estimate of costs  for materials  so that he could arrange  for the work to be 
done himself,  and he asked for around £10,000. UKI agreed  to increase the settlement to £9,000,  
however, which he subsequently accepted. But Mr M still disagreed with the amount of compensation  
recommended by the investigator, as he argues that he is due a more substantial  figure as a result of 
UKIs handling of his claim, which he says has had a detrimental impact on his health. As a result, the 
case has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Given that Mr M has since accepted the £9,000 cash settlement from UKI, I will only be considering 
whether he has been awarded adequate compensation, as the point remaining in dispute.  And having 
done so, I consider the amount of £100 recommended  by the investigator to be fair compensation  in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why.
As outlined  above, our investigator upheld the complaint as it appeared  that UKI hadnt offered to 
reinstate the property on a like for like basis,  and had only offered to cash  settle based on what it 
wouldve cost the insurer. But UKI have sought to clarify that this was not the case. They explained 
Ref: DRN06609024that the contractor  who initially surveyed the damage in June 2018 did indeed recommend that the 
claim be cash settled due to issues surrounding the quality of the propertys construction  and 
betterment, as well as Mr Ms own preference for a cash settlement  in line with quotes that hed 
obtained. UKI offered approximately £1,500 at this time based on the first contractors initial scope of 
works. But Mr M rejected this offer, so UKI subsequently instructed a second contractor in October 
2018 to survey the property and provide their professional  opinion  on the matter. 
The second  contractor increased the cash settlement value  to £7,290.19, which Mr M was unhappy 
with as he still didnt think it would cover  the works he felt ought to be carried  out. And it was initially 
thought that the second  contractor had also refused  to carry out the necessary remedial  works 
themselves and only gave Mr M the option  of a cash settlement. But UKI say that Mr M was given the 
option of using the second  contractor during  the site meeting in October 2018 for a like for like repair, 
but that he refused this as he wanted  to obtain separate  quotes  from his own contractors.  
Mr M says that the UKIs handling of his claim and the resulting  delays has caused his health to 
suffer. But while I appreciate there has been a fairly  substantial  delay between Mr M submitting his 
claim and the payment of his cash settlement,  I dont think the trouble and upset caused as a result of 
this can all fairly be attributed  to UKI. This is because it appears  that Mr M did not want UKIs 
contractors to carry out the required works  themselves. I understand that Mr M felt that the 
contractors proposals  would not return his property to its pre-loss condition,  which is why he wanted 
to get his own quotes  and instruct his own contractors. But the quotes  obtained  by Mr M were for a 
significant amount more, with one such quote being  more than double the settlement quoted by UKI. 
And the quotes also did not demonstrate  what works  were  necessary as part of the insurance claim. 
So, even if UKI did only offer a cash settlement, I cannot see that Mr M provided  any compelling 
documentation or evidence in any event  to suggest that the £7,209.19 offered by UKI was insufficient.  
Indeed, the quotes submitted by Mr M do not appear to be from an established or reputable building 
contractor, but rather from individuals that have no discernible credentials  within  the construction 
industry.So it follows that I dont  think UKI have acted unreasonably when they declined  to cover the quotes 
obtained by Mr M, which means I dont think they can fairly be held responsible  for the delays caused 
as a result of his dispute over the settlement. 
However, I note that there was a substantial difference between  the first settlement offered by UKI in 
July 2018 (£1,500)  to that eventually  offered following the second visit in October 2018 (£7,290.19). It 
isnt clear why there was such a difference between the two settlement offers,  but I do think  UKI are 
responsible for the trouble  and upset caused as a result of the three month delay  in getting to this 
point. But in the circumstances, I consider the £100 already recommended by the investigator to be 
fair compensation for this, so I dont intend on increasing  this amount any further.  
Im sorry to hear that Mr Ms insurance claim  has had a detrimental impact on his health. But apart 
from the initial  delay of three months to arrive  at the £7,290.19  settlement figure   I havent seen  
enough to persuade  me that UKI can fairly be held responsible for any further delays  and the impact 
this has since had on his health.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct UK Insurance Limited  to 
pay £100 compensation  in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
Both parties should let me have  any further comments they want  to add by 7 August 2019.
Ref: DRN0660902