K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs A says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on an Advantage Account in 1998.  The policy 
wouldve covered  her account  repayments if she couldnt work because she had an accident,  
was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. Ill explain my reasoning below.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs A that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  The policy was taken out in store.  I dont know  what  
happened during the sale so Ive looked  at the paperwork available to help me decide whats  
likely to have happened. 
Ive been given a copy of the application  form that Mrs A completed when she took out the 
account and this includes a section for PPI. The box opting  for the policy  has a printed cross 
in it. This sale took place  in a face to face meeting so I think its likely that this selection  
came about  as a result  of a conversation between Mrs A and FICL where PPI was 
discussed. Mrs A has signed the form so I think its likely to reflect what she wanted. So on 
balance I think its likely  that FICL would have asked  Mrs A for her agreement to add the 
policy to her account and she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to. Although  its 
understandable that she no longer remembers this. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs A and I think  thats likely to be right. So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave 
Mrs A clear  enough information about  the policy to enable her to decide  for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs A 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Ref: DRN07007872Mrs A says she was entitled  to some sick pay, and that she couldve relied on her husband 
to help make  her repayments. But the PPI wouldve covered her repayments  for up to 12 
months if she was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. And 
having the PPI meant she wouldnt have to rely on her husband, whose ability  to help would 
depend on his own circumstances at any given time. So I think  she couldve found the policy  
useful. And dont think clearer information wouldve affected her decision to take the PPI. 
Overall, when taking into account everything Ive seen and been  told, I dont think  Mrs A has 
lost out as a result of anything FICL may have  done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0700787