K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about a payment they said they didnt receive  from their investment 
trust in 2010. They say BMO  Asset  Management Limited (BMO)  is unable  to trace the 
cheque that it says was issued  at that time, but Mr and Mrs P say theyve shown it was 
never paid into their bank  accounts. They dispute  that it was ever issued and want  the funds 
to be paid to them.
background
Mr and Mrs P held an investment trust share plan with BMO. On 1 July 2010 £7,711.12 was 
paid into the account as proceeds from the sale of some shares. On 14 July 2010 a 
transaction for £7,820.45  was made  listed  as cash withdrawn. That was the total balance 
of the account  at the time. BMO says this would have been in the form of a cheque  to 
Mr and Mrs P. No further transactions occurred on the account until a liquidation payment 
and interest adjustment in June 2014   which was then paid as a cash withdrawal cheque. 
That cheque was returned unpaid to BMO in 2016 and reissued to leave a closing zero 
balance on the account by 16 June  2016. 
In September  2017 Mr P asked  BMO to provide a full transaction  statement for the account,  
which it was able to do but only from January 2002.  But Mr P noted this was a different 
account and asked the whereabouts of the outstanding balance. He also raised a number of 
queries about  the account shown  on the statements  in particular about the payment to the 
value of £7,820.45 which Mr P didnt think hed received.
BMO said it changed administrator in 2012 and in 2016 it undertook  an exercise  to allocate 
any outstanding  funds to customer accounts.  And there was no evidence from either action 
that the cheque amount was outstanding. But BMO no longer held any other records and 
couldnt provide  any further detail of the encashment of the cheque. It also said there were 
no records to show the cheque had been returned  uncashed.
Mr P thought  BMO could  do more  to trace what happened to the cheques. BMO confirmed 
details to show that a smaller cheque issued on 17 July 2014 and then reissued in 
June 2016 had been cashed. But it was unable to confirm  what had happened to the larger 
cheque  although it assumed that as there  was no evidence of the account holding  
unclaimed funds  or any further statements being sent to Mr and Mrs P  the cheque  had 
been cashed when it was received.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy so they brought their complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter and said that he didnt think  BMO had done anything  
wrong so he wouldnt  be recommending that the complaint was upheld. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree. They said they accepted his assessment regarding  the smaller 
cheque but confirmed the first time theyd  been aware of the larger  cheque/withdrawal  was 
in September  2017. They  didnt think BMO was justified in sending such  a significant amount 
of money with the payment method  noted  as cash withdrawn. They also disputed why they 
would have contacted BMO in July 2010  before the cheque  had been sent to them.
The investigator then made the following points in response:
Ref: DRN02648872The shares were sold on 1 July 2010  so it was reasonable  for Mr P to have called  
BMO on 12 July 2010 to check on the situation regarding the proceeds of the sale. 
And it was reasonable that BMO then sent a cheque a couple of days  later.
Mr and Mrs P have  said they didnt receive the smaller cheque either, however that 
had been proven  to have been cashed. So the investigator thought  it was more than 
likely the larger cheque was received  as well. 
Mr and Mrs P could  have cashed  the cheque outside of the time theyd supplied bank 
statements for as it would still have been  valid. Alternatively it could have been paid 
into another account.
BMOs investment statements could have been more  helpful but that didnt mean 
they were incorrect.
Mr P suggested the investigator asked BMO to obtain information from its own bank to try to 
trace the number  of the cheque that was issued.  But the investigator thought BMO had taken 
sufficient steps to try to resolve the matter. So, as no resolution  could  be found the complaint 
has been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I realise Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed 
with this outcome,  and I have some sympathy  with their position  as they are simply unsure 
what happened to the share sale proceeds  from 2010  so Id like to explain my reasoning. 
Mr and Mrs P have  made reference to two cheques that they wanted further information on. 
And Ive seen that BMO has provided  details of the joint bank account that accepted  the 
smaller of the cheques. Im satisfied that BMO has answered Mr and Mrs Ps query about 
that cheque and that it was cashed  in 2016. 
With regards to the larger cheque, Im satisfied, from what  Ive seen, that payment was 
made following the sale of some  stock at the beginning of July 2010. Mr and Mrs P say 
theres no evidence  to show that the cheque was subsequently presented and cashed  and 
have asked for information to show which bank account the cheque was paid into so that it 
can then check about encashment with that bank.
BMO says theres no record of that amount  being  outstanding when it previously  migrated its  
accounts and allocated any outstanding monies. It says theres no record of a cheque for 
that amount  being returned  either. So it says it cant provide any further information to show  
what happened to the cheque  especially  without knowing  the cheque  number  and the 
passage of time means it doesnt hold any other records. 
And looking at information  Ive seen I cant say that BMO has done anything wrong or that it 
should do more  to establish what happened  to the cheque. BMOs responsibility  in 2010 was 
to manage Mr and Mrs Ps investment trust account,  which involved buying and selling funds 
on their behalf. When it sold the stock  in July 2010 it then issued the proceeds of that sale to 
Mr and Mrs P. BMOs been able to demonstrate that through an historical transaction  list for 
the account. I dont  think  it had any responsibility to ensure  Mr and Mrs P encashed the 
cheque it issued or to track its progress to establish  what happened to it.
Ref: DRN02648873I appreciate Mr and Mrs P have asked  BMO to help them  to find out what  may have 
happened to the cheque   as they cant find  a  trail for it and believe it wasnt cashed.  But I 
think BMO has done all that could be asked of it in such a situation and has been able to 
confirm it issued payment  and that a cheque  wasnt  returned  to it or that account. 
 
Mr P says hes obtained bank statements from 2010  and 2016 from the two possible 
accounts they would have  used.  He says theres no evidence that the cheques were 
deposited into those  accounts. He also said that if hed received  a closing statement for his 
investment account  in 2016 he would have been  able to draw BMOs attention to the cheque 
issue, before  the six year period  for holding records had elapsed.
I cant confirm what  happened  to the cheque  that was issued to Mr and Mrs P in July 2010. 
Theres no evidence available for me to be able to demonstrate what account it was paid into 
or if indeed  it wasnt cashed.  And certainly Mr P has demonstrated that it wasnt  paid into the 
two accounts  hes provided statements for after the cheque was issued. But that doesnt 
mean BMO has done anything wrong  here.  Its taken all the steps I would have expected  it 
to - over the period  it needed to keep records for, to try to answer  Mr and Mrs Ps query.  I 
would have expected BMO to consult  all its original  accounts and ledgers to confirm  what 
happened and Im satisfied that its done that here.
BMO has suggested, from phone  notes its found, that Mr P rang it on 12 July 2010  to check  
on the position with his account. Mr P says he wouldnt have called about a cheque that he 
hadnt yet received and has already told us that the first he knew of the cheque  being sent 
was in September 2017. Im unable  to confirm whether Mr P did make this call or what may 
have been said,  however  I dont dispute what Mr P has said.  But Ive assumed that it was 
Mr Ps instruction to originally sell the shares  in July 2010, so I think its reasonable that he 
was expecting to see the proceeds  in his account  and for him to contact BMO to enquire  
about both the value  and the availability of the funds. And I think  it follows therefore that 
Mr P would have been expecting  to receive  some  significant funds around that time and I 
would have expected him to have alerted BMO if they werent  received within a reasonable 
timeframe.
I note Mr P has said that the larger sum only had an entry  of cash  withdrawn next to it on 
the statement, without  an accompanying cheque number which the smaller withdrawal from 
2014 did have.  I accept what Mr Ps saying here and can understand why this would  have 
caused him to think a cheque wasnt issued. But theres simply no evidence  to confirm how 
the proceeds were  paid and if indeed they were paid directly  to Mr and Mrs P in a different 
way. 
Of course BMO  could have made the statement clearer which may have helped to trace  the 
whereabouts of the funds after they left the investment  trust.  But that doesnt mean BMO did 
anything wrong  and I think its done all that it could to resolve this matter here. So I dont  
think it should do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN02648874ombudsman
Ref: DRN0264887