K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  two 
packaged bank  accounts. They pay a monthly fee for the account which  provides  several  
benefits in return.
background
This account was opened as a sole account in Mr Bs name as a Silver packaged account, in 
September 2008. From what Ive seen, it looks as though Mrs B was made a joint party  to 
the account around November 2010  and the account was upgraded to a Premier  Vantage 
packaged account in December 2010.
The Vantage element was removed from the account in 2016, but it remained a Premier 
account. This wasnt a separate sale, so I havent considered it as such.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the packaged accounts to Mr and 
Mrs B and didnt recommend that Lloyds should  pay them any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative didnt agree, so he asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Bs complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think  the packaged bank 
accounts were mis-sold  to them. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs B were given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank accounts.
When Mr B first took the Silver account it was opened as a new Lloyds account.  I note hes 
said he wasnt given the choice but to open  a packaged account, and he didnt consent to 
opening it.
Mr and Mrs B have  also raised the same points in relation to the Premier account. 
Ive seen the application forms from the time both accounts were opened. There are several 
ticks placed in boxes on the forms, to agree to certain information  or to answer questions,  
and both of the forms are signed. So Im satisfied  that Mr B consented to the sale of the 
Silver account, and both Mr and Mrs B consented  to the upgrade to the Premier account.
Ref: DRN09770902Mr B also said when  he raised his complaint with this service  that hed previously held a fee-
free account. And that seems likely, given that he was in his late 40s at that time. So I think  
Mr B wouldve  been  aware that he could have a free account, but chose the Silver  account 
because something  about it appealed to him. If Mr B really  didnt want to open  an account  
with a fee, but had no choice, I dont think hed have  continued  to open an account at all.
Im also mindful that if Mr B believed he had to have an account with a monthly fee, even  
though he didnt want it, hed most likely  have  chosen the cheapest  one and kept it. But Mr 
and Mrs Bs change from the Silver account  which cost £7.95  per month  to the Premier 
account at £25 per month. So this makes me think the change  was something they wanted.
So having  considered what theyve said, I dont  think Mr B and later Mr and Mrs B took the 
packaged accounts because they werent offered an alternative,  fee-free account. And Im 
also persuaded they gave  their consent  for the accounts to be opened, by signing the 
application forms.
Lloyds says it recommended both of the packaged  accounts. So it had to make sure the 
benefits were a reasonable fit for Mr Bs (and later Mrs Bs) circumstances,  given what it 
knew about them.
Mr B says he didnt have a mobile  phone at the time he took the Silver account,  but he 
owned a car and he travelled outside  of Europe. Some of the main features of the Silver 
account were mobile phone insurance, car breakdown cover and European travel insurance. 
I can see from Mr Bs account transactions that it looks like he travelled  within  Europe 
around two weeks after taking the Silver account,  and again a few months  later. So I think  he 
couldve taken the account to benefit  from the European travel insurance  for these trips. 
Lloyds records show that Mr B registered a mobile phone under the accounts insurance  
policy in the same month as taking the Silver  account. The records  also show that he made 
a callout under the accounts  breakdown cover in December  2008. So I think the main 
benefits were suitable for Mr B and he wanted  them  and I havent  seen  anything  to 
suggest he couldnt have made claims on all of them if hed needed to.
The Premier account included similar  benefits  to the Silver account, with the addition of 
Home Emergency cover. The travel insurance, breakdown cover and mobile phone 
insurance were enhanced  in comparison to the cover  provided by the Silver account.
As Mrs B had been  added  to the account by the time it was upgraded to the Premier 
account, I think its likely the enhanced  travel  insurance was attractive  to Mr and 
Mrs B. This account included worldwide family cover including winter  sports,  which both 
Mr and Mrs B couldve benefited from.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs B registered further  phones in 2011  and 2014 and they also 
made use of the Home Start feature of the car breakdown cover  which wasnt available  
on the previous  Silver account.
So I think Lloyds recommendation of the upgrade to the Premier account was reasonable,  
based on what I know about Mr and Mrs B and the way they went on to use the accounts 
main benefits. 
Ref: DRN09770903Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs B enough  clear  information about the packaged 
accounts for them to decide if they wanted  them. For the reasons Ive explained as to why I 
think Lloyds made suitable  recommendations, I also think it gave Mr and Mrs B enough  
information about the accounts for them  to understand what the main benefits were,  and 
how to use them. They may not have used  all the benefits, and with hindsight they might not 
think the accounts were  good value for money to them, but this doesnt mean Lloyds mis-
sold the accounts. 
I accept its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs B everything it should  have about  the 
packaged accounts. But I havent seen  enough  to make me think that Mr B wouldnt still 
have taken the Silver account, and Mr and Mrs B wouldnt still have taken the Premier 
account, even  if Lloyds had told them more about  them. 
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs B that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said,  and also what  their representative 
has said about the similarities between his own complaint and this complaint. But as each 
complaint and circumstances are individual and can be very different, Mr and Mrs Bs 
representatives complaint outcome hasnt influenced my decision in this one.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the packaged accounts 
to them.  So I dont  think it owes  them any money.
I should not that it looks as though Mr and Mrs B still hold the Premier account.  If they think  
its not right for them, they should consider discussing it with Lloyds.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0977090