K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) cancelled  his card and didnt properly 
notify him. He is also unhappy about the way in which his complaint was dealt with. 
background
In mid October 2018 Mr B realised  his Halifax credit card wasnt working. When he 
contacted Halifax  to query this it said it had cancelled his card because  it had become aware 
of a data breach involving  a company, which Ill refer to as T. It explained that it had 
blocked some of its customers credit cards  in efforts to take preventative measures to 
protect the accounts  of those it had identified  as being at risk of potential  fraudulent  or 
unauthorised use.
Halifax stated that it had identified Mr Bs account  as one that had been  compromised  by Ts 
data breach. And it had cancelled his credit  card in order to protect his account  and eliminate 
the risk of fraud. It said it had written to him on 5 October to explain that it was intending to 
cancel his card on 16 October  and that his new card should arrive  within  five working days. 
Mr B said he didnt  receive a letter explaining  that his card would be cancelled. And he 
thought Halifax  should have text or emailed  him instead about this. Mr B feels  Halifax didnt 
appropriately notify him that it had cancelled his card. And he wasnt  happy  that he didnt 
have any say in his credit card being  cancelled because he had planned  to use it while he 
was on holiday and wasnt  able to. Mr B also felt that Halifax misled him in the information it 
gave him about  when  it had posted  his replacement card.
So he complained to Halifax about what had happened. But he said when he tried to raise  a 
complaint he found Halifaxs  complaints procedure laborious. He felt he spent an 
unnecessary amount  of time on the phone. And he isnt happy about the way in which  
Halifax handled his complaint. He asked it to compensate him in the sum of £100 to reflect 
his experience and the amount of time he spent in trying to discuss his concerns about what 
happened. 
Halifax didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. It said it didnt think it had made  an error in cancelling 
Mr Bs credit  card as it believed  his account had been compromised. And it said it properly 
informed him of this by writing to him before it cancelled  his card. Halifax also thought  there 
were no errors in the way it had dealt with Mr Bs complaint.    
Being dissatisfied with Halifaxs  response  Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
looked into this and didnt think Halifax had done anything  wrong  or needed to do anything  
more here.  They thought  that Halifax had acted fairly  and reasonably. But Mr B disagreed 
and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint  either about the decision Halifax  took to 
cancel his credit or the way in which it dealt  with his complaint. I acknowledge that Mr B is 
unhappy about the complaints process  that Halifax adopts. He says the way in which his 
complaint was dealt  with caused him distress. And its clear  that hes also dissatisfied about 
Ref: DRN01216462amount of time hes spent in trying  to discuss what happened with Halifax. He feels his 
experience merits an award of £100  compensation.
 
But strictly speaking, we dont have the power  to look at how financial businesses  deal with 
complaint handling  as its not a regulated  activity  under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if I did think Halifax hadnt  dealt with his complaint well, I wouldnt be able 
to uphold that element of his concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I 
wont spend any time in this decision  on that. Ill deal solely with whether Halifax  acted fairly 
and reasonably when it decided to cancel Mr Bs credit card and how it acted afterwards. 
Having carefully considered everything  Mr B and Halifax  have said relating to this part of his 
complaint, Im not persuaded that Halifax made a mistake or done  anything wrong when it 
cancelled Mr Bs credit card. Ill explain why.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially  
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may cancel cards it has issued to its customers.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  of Mr Bs card, which clearly outline when Halifax is 
entitled to cancel a customers card. These terms set out that Halifax  may cancel a credit  
card where it has reasonable grounds for suspecting fraudulent or unauthorised use of the 
account or where it considers  it necessary  to protect  the security of the account or card.
Here, Halifax  has been  made aware that there had been data breaches by T. And it had 
identified Mr Bs account as one that had been  compromised by this breach. So, I can 
understand why Halifax  would  have  concerns  over the security of his account and want to 
protect it from potential fraudulent activity. The only way it could do this was by cancelling his 
card. I appreciate  that this meant  Mr B had no input or say in the decision to cancel his card. 
But Im satisfied that cancelling Mr Bs credit card as a reasonable precaution  for Halifax  to 
adopt here. This was as much  for his protection  as it was for Halifaxs.
I understand that when Halifax blocked  Mr Bs card it was an inconvenient  and frustrating 
experience  especially given that he was intending  to use this card while  he was on holiday. 
But, Halifax  acted in line with the terms of Mr Bs account when it cancelled  his credit card. I 
think Halifax had good reason to suspect that Mr Bs account was at risk of potential  fraud.  
And Im satisfied it acted  reasonably and in good  faith in efforts  to protect Mr B. So, I cant 
fairly find that Halifax made an error  in the action it took here.
Ive gone on to consider whether, having decided to cancel  Mr Bs card, Halifax appropriately 
notified him. I havent seen the original  letter  Halifax  sent to Mr B about its decision to cancel 
his credit card. Halifax says the letter was sent as part of a batch due to the number of 
customers that were affected. This is why theres no proof  of postage.  Ive seen a sample 
letter from Halifax that it says was sent to Mr B. Ive also seen system notes provided by 
Halifax that confirm  that it posted this letter to Mr B on 5 October  2018.  
Given the above evidence, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that a letter  giving Mr 
B notice  that his card would be cancelled was sent to him. I can see that the address  Halifax 
has recorded for Mr B matches the address  hes provided our service.  I think  its most likely  
that Halifax would have posted  any correspondence to this address. And while  Halifax said it 
didnt receive any returned  mail I dont  doubt  Mr B when he says he didnt  receive this letter,  
perhaps due to issues with the post. While its very unfortunate when things get lost in the 
Ref: DRN01216463post, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Halifax responsible  for that. It is not 
something over which it has any control.
Mr B isnt happy that Halifax  chose to inform him about his card being  cancelled by post.  He 
thinks it should have  emailed or text him instead.  And he wants Halifax  to review how it 
communicates with its customers. He also thinks Halifax should  implement  a process which  
allows customers to set up communication  preferences so they can decide how theyd  like 
Halifax to communicate  with them. 
But as the adjudicator explained, were not the regulator of banks and building societies. So, 
we cant tell a business to change  the way in which it chooses to communicate  with its 
customers. Halifax is entitled to determine its own policy in this regard. And it made  a 
business decision to notify those affected  by Ts data breach that it was intending to cancel 
their credit card by post. In the individual circumstances here,  I think its fair and reasonable 
for Halifax to inform customers of material changes to their credit card in this way. So, I cant  
fairly conclude it made an error when it wrote  to Mr B to explain it would be cancelling  his 
credit card.
Mr B feels  Halifax misled  him about  when his replacement card would be dispatched. He 
said he was told it would  be sent on 16 October and is unhappy  that he received a text three 
days later explaining his card was on its way. From the evidence Ive seen,  Halifax  didnt 
delay or protract  matters  when it ordered  him a replacement card. It told him it would  order a 
replacement card on 16 October, which it did. I appreciate theres a three day delay  between  
when Mr B thought  it would be sent and when it was actually sent.  But the replacement card 
would need to be produced after it was ordered. And in its letter  of 5 October Halifax 
explained it could  take up to five working  days for the replacement card to arrive in the post. 
Mr B received his card within that time. Taking  all of this into account, I dont think three  days 
is an unreasonable length of time.  Im persuaded theres been  no undue delay in Halifax  
posting Mr Bs card.  So, I cant  fairly  conclude that it acted unfairly here.
I appreciate that Mr B feels very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint  and Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said. But, for the reasons set out above, I think  that 
Halifax acted fairly  and reasonably. So it follows that I wont to be asking it to do any more.  
Ref: DRN01216464my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0121646