K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) have mishandled  a chargeback  
request made on her behalf in relation to a transaction  she says is fraudulent. 
background
On 26 April 2018, very shortly after her husband  sadly died, Mrs R had some  plumbing work 
done. She expected to pay £60. But sometime later she discovered that the business who 
had done the work  debited £175 from her account  with RBS. Mrs R believed the plumbing 
business ripped  her off as she had recently  lost her husband. 
On 18 June Mrs R reported  this to RBS.  It raised  a chargeback  request on her behalf.  As 
RBS hasnt been able to provide us with Mrs Rs report to it, I cant say whether this is what  
Mrs R asked the bank  to do, or whether she reported a fraud  and the bank decided to treat it 
as a chargeback  request. But in any event,  shortly afterwards RBS credited Mrs Rs account 
with the disputed amount of £115.
On 2 August  2018 RBS wrote to Mrs R saying that the plumbing business  had disputed  the 
chargeback and provided a copy of the evidence the business had provided. Mrs R replied 
the same  day, saying  that the evidence provided didnt prove  anything. She said that the 
business couldnt provide  a signed  authorisation showing shed agreed to the amount. She 
said she didnt agree to the funds being  re-debited.
On 29 August 2018 Mrs R complained to RBS that the £115 had been re-debited from her 
account without  any notice. The bank said that as shed been  unable to provide proof  of the 
amount she shouldve been  charged,  RBS was unable to continue  the chargeback claim. It 
said that it sent an email  to her on 20 August advising that it was unable to assist her further, 
and that her account would be re-debited. This took place on 28 August 2018.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator  arranged for the account to be put on 
hold whilst the complaint was with us. This was necessary because RBS had begun  taking 
steps to collect the debt owed by Mrs R. 
In late October our investigator sent her and RBS his view on the complaint. He said Mrs R 
was unhappy  she hadnt been told her chargeback claim had failed and that the funds would 
be re-debited from her account. That caused  an unauthorised overdraft charge. She was 
struggling financially  as her husband had recently  passed away. Mrs R also thought RBS 
shouldve notified  the fraud team. 
Our investigator explained how the chargeback scheme worked  and said that the 
chargeback claim had to meet certain criteria to be successful. He thought that RBS had 
sent an email on 20 August informing her the funds would be re-debited. He understood she 
didnt receive it but he thought there was evidence it had been sent. 
Finally, he said that even if RBSs fraud team had investigated he didnt think  it would make 
any difference as theyd  rely on the same evidence so he didnt think theyd reach  a different 
outcome. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with the view so she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She 
also challenged the email evidence the bank relied  on, saying there was no proof  an email 
had been sent on 20 August. 
Ref: DRN09396912On 27 February 2019 I issued a provisional  decision. My provisional  findings were as 
follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold the 
complaint and give Mrs R some compensation. Id also like to add my condolences to Mrs R 
on the death of her husband. Ive no doubt its been  a difficult and sad time for her. 
I need to decide whether RBS did all it reasonably should have in relation to the chargeback 
claim. It might be helpful if I explain how a chargeback works. Where a consumer disputes a 
transaction made on a debit card we would expect the bank to consider whether  a 
chargeback claim should be made. If the bank  thinks a claim is likely  to be successful,  we 
would expect it to do so. But chargeback isnt a legal right.  It is a voluntary scheme  operated 
by some card providers. And the rules  for the scheme are very complex and run to many 
hundreds of pages. The bank doesnt make the rules.
There are a limited number of reasons for which a chargeback can be attempted. One of 
these is the category called processing Error  incorrect amount. This is the category that 
the bank put the claim forward under. Once  it decided to do so it refunded the money to Mrs 
R, but this was always dependent on the chargeback  being  ultimately  successful. 
Once a chargeback claim is made,  the business  providing the goods  or services is given the 
opportunity to dispute the chargeback claim by providing compelling evidence.  In this case 
the plumbing business did so. It provided  a receipt  for £175 and an exchange of emails  
between itself and Mrs R which it said showed  Mrs R agreed to the charges. But I agree with 
Mrs R that it isnt proof that Mrs R agreed to the specific amount. And RBS has confirmed 
that Mrs R didnt authorise the payment  with her PIN, so there  is no evidence at all that Mrs 
R authorised the specific amount that the plumbing  business debited from her account. 
From the file provided by RBS its not plain to me why RBS didnt press on with the claim 
after this. It may be because it took the view that as Mrs R wasnt  able to provide definite 
proof that shed been overcharged,  there wasnt enough evidence  to proceed. But it does 
look like as late as 20 August 2018 it was considering going to the pre-arbitration  stage  of 
the dispute. This is the stage of the chargeback process where a customer disputes the 
compelling evidence  provided by the business  that provided the goods or services,  in this 
case the plumbing services. 
Instead, the bank  says it sent Mrs R an email saying that it was unable  to assist  her further 
and that her account would be re-debited. Its now clear that no such  email was sent. The 
bank has provided  an email it says it sent on 20 August that is in the same terms as the 
email it sent on 2 August enclosing the plumbing  businesss  compelling  evidence. The later 
email said that her account would be re-debited on 17 August and contained a different 
amount for the transaction. 
Mrs R says she didnt receive this email, and has queried its contents,  and whether it was 
ever sent.  
RBS has provided a spreadsheet that it says shows that the email of 20 August 2018 was 
sent. Its explained that the reference to the date of 17 August was a typographical error. Its 
also now acknowledged that this wasnt the email that should have been sent, but its unable 
to provide a template copy of the email that shouldve been sent at that stage in the process. 
Ref: DRN09396913In these circumstances Im not prepared to find that it was more likely  than not that RBS sent 
the email of 20 August. 
So, to summarise:
(a)Its not clear why RBS didnt  proceed with the chargeback claim after Mrs R 
disputed the compelling  evidence, reasonably in my view.
(b)Contrary to what RBS said,  it didnt  at any time until after Mrs R made her 
complaint tell her that it wasnt proceeding with the chargeback claim.
(c)It didnt send a clear and accurate email to Mrs R explaining when  her account 
would be re-debited,  and why. 
Its difficult to say what wouldve been the result  if RBS had properly considered if the 
chargeback should have  been taken further.  And its now too late for me to tell RBS to take 
further steps on the chargeback. But since Im not satisfied that it handled  the chargeback 
claim satisfactorily, including appropriately communicating  with Mrs R, Im minded to tell 
RBS to re-credit the account with the £115,  to waive and refund any charges or interest 
resulting from the unauthorised overdraft and to pay her compensation of £100  for her 
inconvenience. 
Given my conclusions on the chargeback claim,  I havent considered whether RBS shouldve  
also treated the report as a fraud  and investigated accordingly. This is because  Ive upheld  
Mrs Rs complaint about the chargeback  claim.
My provisional decision was that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must re-credit Mrs Rs 
account with £115, waive and refund any fees,  charges and interest  resulting from the £115 
debit, and pay Mrs R £100 for her inconvenience. 
Mrs R accepted my decision,  but she also wanted  any adverse record  on her credit  file 
removed by the bank. RBS also accepted my decision, and have since  confirmed that there 
are no negative markers placed  against Mrs Rs credit file. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as the parties have 
both accepted my decision, I see no need to alter it. Its necessary for me to issue  this final 
decision so that if Mrs R accepts it, it is legally binding. 
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc, if it has not already done so, must:
(a)re-credit Mrs Rs account with £115;
(b)waive and/or refund  any fees, charges and interest resulting from the £115  debit; 
and
(c)pay Mrs R £100 for her inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Helen Wheatley
Ref: DRN09396914ombudsman
Ref: DRN0939691