K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain HSBC UK Bank  Plc gave them poor advice  when they took out a 
further advance  on their mortgage  in 2018. 
background
Mr and Mrs J have a mortgage  with HSBC. In January 2018 they approached HSBC for 
advice about borrowing  some additional  money. At that point they owed  approximately  
£151,000 on their existing mortgage. This was on a fixed interest rate until April 2019. And 
the mortgage was due to run for another 26 years.
HSBC recommended that they take a homeowner loan and borrow  an additional £25,000.  
This would be over 30 years, with the interest rate on this new borrowing fixed  for the first 5 
years. No changes were  recommended  to their existing mortgage. Mr and Mrs J accepted 
the recommendation and went ahead with the borrowing.
In January 2019, with the fixed  interest rate on their existing mortgage  coming  to an end, 
HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs J to set out what new rates were  available  to them. The letter 
explained that this would  be based  on the loan to value (LTV) ratio  the outstanding  
balance compared  to the value of the property.  The letter said Mr and Mrs Js LTV was over 
80% based on an estimated mortgage  balance of approximately £147,000 and an estimated 
property value of £215,000.
Mr and Mrs J rang HSBC  to query  this, as based  on those figures  they thought the LTV was 
less than 80%. During the call HSBC explained  that the letter was correct  that the LTV was 
over 80% because the outstanding balance should also have  included  the homeowner loan.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to HSBC saying this was not what  was explained to them  in 2018. 
They said theyd understood, the LTV used to calculate the rates available  to them  would 
just be based  on the existing mortgage  balance in comparison to the value of their home. 
They said they should have been advised  not to borrow additional money until April 2019,  
after the fixed rate on their original mortgage  expired as this wouldve meant they were 
better off. 
HSBC said it didnt  think it had done  anything wrong. It said that it would always use the total 
amount of outstanding borrowing when calculating the LTV ratio. And the notes from when it 
provided advice  in 2018 didnt indicate it had said otherwise.
Mr and Mrs J then asked our service to look into the complaint. They  were  unhappy  with 
HSBCs response. They  felt that as a result of the poor advice they would now be worse off 
each month  as they didnt qualify for certain  interest rate products because the LTV ratio 
used included the additional borrowing. And they were unhappy  with how HSBC  handled the 
complaint - particularly how quickly the response was given and that the complaint  was not 
discussed with them first. 
Ref: DRN01893182An investigator considered what had happened but didnt think HSBC  had done  anything 
wrong. He thought the documentation from when  the additional borrowing was taken made  it 
clear that it would impact  the LTV ratio. And he felt HSBC didnt do anything  wrong  by 
basing its recommendation  on the position at the point of sale in January 2018, rather  than 
trying to predict what might  be appropriate  15 months later.  In terms of how the complaint 
was handled,  he said that complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity so isnt 
something we could really  consider. But as he agreed HSBC hadnt done anything  wrong in 
terms of the advice given he didnt think the complaint being handled quickly had caused 
Mr and Mrs J any detriment.
Mr and Mrs J did not agree with the investigators opinion. They felt he hadnt really 
understood the complaint  and had been biased in favour of HSBC. They  maintain  that 
theyve lost out as the advice from HSBC was poor and they shouldve been  told to wait until 
the fixed rate on their existing mortgage expired before borrowing additional funds. As 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with the investigators opinion  the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs J feel very strongly  about  this. And I want to assure then Ive 
considered everything  that theyve said to us. 
Mr and Mrs J say they were led to believe that when the interest rate expired on their 
existing borrowing, the LTV used to decide  which interest rates  they were eligible to apply to 
move this borrowing  to would only be based  on that amount. But what has actually 
happened is that it was based  on the total outstanding borrowing at that time  the existing 
mortgage balance  and the homeowner  loan. 
I dont know what was said at the meeting between Mr and Mrs J and the HSBC  adviser.  But 
Ive seen the documentation  sent to Mr and Mrs J after the meeting. The mortgage  offer 
explains that the additional  borrowing is secured by the existing  legal charge. And it also 
talks about total  borrowing  and how the total mortgage would be affected by the 
homeowner loan  setting out the total outstanding balance of roughly £176,000. I think  this 
indicates that the two amounts of borrowing would be considered in tandem.
Ive also seen a letter sent to Mr and Mrs J on 30 January 2018. This explains  that a 
valuation has been carried  out on their property,  valuing it at £215,000. The letter goes on to 
say that as a result,  HSBC is unable  to offer the ten year fixed rate on the homeowner  loan 
that was previously discussed  because this is only available  on loans up to an LTV of 75%. 
And it couldnt offer any other ten year fixed rates as these were only available with LTVs up 
to 80%.  As a result  it could only offer a five year fixed rate  available  on LTVs  up to 85% - 
which Mr and Mrs J had said they were  happy  with. And the same  information was repeated 
in the introduction section of the advice report,  which was also sent to Mr and Mrs J. 
The homeowner loan was for £25,000. Its clear that this alone does not exceed 75% of the 
valuation amount. So although these  letters  dont specifically mention the total outstanding 
borrowing, I think they are pretty clear based on the figures mentioned  that both the existing 
borrowing and further advance are used when  calculating  the LTV.
Ref: DRN01893183So I think HSBC made it clear that the additional  borrowing would affect,  and be factored 
into, the LTV ratio applicable to their whole mortgage. And I also havent seen anything  to 
show that Mr and Mrs J were  told that this would  be different when they came  to apply for a 
new rate in April 2019 or at any other stage. So I dont think I can reasonably say HSBC 
mislead them. And I dont  think  HSBC  has calculated  the LTV incorrectly  when deciding  
what rates  to offer them in 2019.
Mr and Mrs J say they shouldve been told to wait until April 2019 to borrow the money.  As I 
mentioned Ive seen  a copy  of the advice  report from January 2018,  when  Mr and Mrs J 
applied for the further advance. It says their objective was to borrow an additional £25,000 
for home improvements. I think its reasonable that the advice given would be intended to 
meet that objective at that time.  
As part of this advice,  HSBC would need to think  about reasonably foreseeable upcoming 
changes. And it would have been  aware that the fixed rate on the existing borrowing would 
be coming to an end. But I think this was taken  into account. The advice report indicates  that 
the option of switching the existing mortgage to the same deal as the homeowner loan was 
discussed. This wouldve meant the term of interest rate deals  wouldve been  aligned so 
there werent  two separate rates,  with two separate early repayment  periods to think  about. 
But because of the early repayment  charge that would be incurred on the existing mortgage, 
it was decided this wouldnt have been  cost effective.  So I think this indicates that, at the 
time of the advice  in January 2018, the upcoming changes to the existing mortgage  were 
thought about.
But I dont think in January 2018,  HSBC could reasonably have  advised  Mr and Mrs J about 
what to do in April 2019 when the fixed interest rate on the bulk of the borrowing expired.  
There were a number of variables  for example Mr and Mrs Js circumstances could have 
changed or interest rates could have fluctuated significantly - and I dont think HSBC 
couldve reasonably  predicted what mayve  happened. Mr and Mrs J have said it was not a 
case of predicting the future but HSBC  shouldve told them  how the additional borrowing 
would impact their overall mortgage, specifically the LTV.  But as Ive already explained I 
think the information provided to them about this was clear and dont think  HSBC  mislead  
them about  this.
So overall I dont  think HSBC was wrong to advise Mr and Mrs J about the most  appropriate  
options for borrowing the additional sum in January 2018  which is when they asked to 
borrow the money.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Js concerns about  how the complaint was handled by HSBC the 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority, requires a business  to respond to complaints  
within a set timeframe  usually within eight weeks of being made aware. Here I can see that 
HSBC emailed Mr J on 8 February 2019  acknowledging the complaint. I can see he called 
for an update on 8 March 2019 and a final response letter  was issued on 11 March 2019. 
While this was shortly  after the request for an update, it looks  like HSBC had been 
considering the complaint for a few weeks by that stage. I dont think  a business responding 
quicker than the full eight weeks they are permitted necessarily indicates it hasnt considered 
the complaint  made. And as I dont think it has done  anything wrong in terms of the advice 
given, I dont think its response appears  to have been unreasonable.
Ref: DRN01893184my final decision
While I know Mr and Mrs J feel strongly about  this and Im sorry to disappoint  them, for the 
reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0189318