K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) failed to inform  
him and other shareholders of Flybes extraordinary  general meeting or provide him with the 
key circular. Given what happened at the meeting, and his inability to vote at it, he feels he 
has lost out financially.
background
HL rejected his complaint, saying it was not obliged to inform him of any shareholders 
meeting unless this was called in order to approve a notifiable  Corporate Action i.e. to vote 
on firm plans to dispose of the business. It said that to meet  such a criterion  the advance  
information would need to include a prospective  timetable and likely  monetary  values. It said 
there was no such advance information or indication that this was going to be the purpose of 
the meeting. It also referred to its website where the definition of a Corporate Action was laid 
out.
An adjudicator at this service  agreed  with HL and for the same reasons, and therefore  
concluded that Mr Ms complaint should  not be upheld. He said HL was acting on an 
execution-only basis in relation to Mr Ms shareholding and that this meant the onus was on 
him to check  on Flybes plans, something he could have done  via easily-available online 
sites.
He also agreed  with HLs interpretation of the phrase Corporate Action.  He recognised  that 
the meeting, and the vote which  took place, had a material impact on Mr Ms shareholding  
and felt HL should arguably have done  more  to forewarn him of this. But he felt its offer of 
£50 for this small failing  had been  fair and reasonable.
Crucially, he didnt believe Mr M had suffered a loss as a result of failing to attend the 
meeting or being unable to vote at it. Firstly, because the voting figures demonstrated that 
Mr Ms attendance could not have made  a difference to the result.  Secondly, while  the result 
of the vote was announced on 14 December 2018,  Mr M made no substantive steps to sell 
his shares until 25 March 2019. He therefore  felt there wasnt  sufficient evidence to show  
that if Mr M had read the circular or attended  the meeting  he would have necessarily sold his 
shares sooner.
Mr M did not agree, and said he felt HL was complicit in Flybes actions, which  were  to the 
detriment of its shareholders. He also felt HL frustrated  shareholders  subsequent  efforts to 
sell their shares.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
HL is clearly not required to send all its execution-only clients  notifications  of every  company  
meeting in which they may hold a share  via its platform. This would be a mammoth 
undertaking and Ive seen  no evidence to suggest  they promise this in their terms and 
conditions. I am satisfied that Flybes announcement of  this  EGM did not indicate that a 
Corporate Action would be proposed, so HL therefore was not obliged  to inform Mr M about 
the meeting.
Ref: DRN04092102Crucially, my role is to decide - where  a business  has made a mistake - whether there is 
sufficient persuasive evidence to safely person concerned has suffered a financial loss as a 
result of this. For the reasons outlined by the adjudicator, I do not believe there is such  
persuasive evidence.
I acknowledge Mr Ms additional concerns, as expressed to the adjudicator recently,  but I 
dont believe  they alter the overall  merits of this case. Mr M was an execution-only customer 
and HLs responsibilities were strictly limited,  and I am not persuaded it did anything  
fundamentally wrong or in contravention of its terms and conditions.  I therefore think its offer 
of £50 was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0409210