K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
background
Mr W took out 3 Uncle Buck loans between February 2018 and February 2019. Mr W repaid 
the first two loans  but he hasnt yet (so far as I am aware) repaid loan 3. 
Heres a table showing  more information:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 17/02/2018 28/06/2018 4 £300.00 £133.87
2 29/07/2018 31/01/2019 6 £400.00 £133.44
3 01/02/2019 outstanding 4 £200.00 £80.94
Mr W said that Uncle Buck had failed to correctly identify that hed become dependent  on 
payday loans  and fallen into a cycle  of borrowing to pay previous  loans.  Mr W told us that he 
wasnt just affected  financially   what happened  had also had serious  physical and mental 
wellbeing consequences for him.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr W and Uncle Buck told us about  these loans. 
Overall, she thought that given the loan amounts,  what was apparent  about  Mr Ws 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Uncle Buck  to ask Mr W for the amount of information needed  to show the lending was 
unsustainable. And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr W had taken out, 
the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed been  borrowing from Uncle  Buck 
shouldve alerted Uncle Buck to think he was having  money  problems. So she didnt uphold  
Mr Ws complaint.  
Mr W disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
Mr W mainly said that a cursory glance at his bank statement,  which  Uncle Buck  shouldve  
requested, wouldve provided evidence that these loans werent appropriate  to his lending 
needs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach  to help me decide this complaint.
Uncle Buck  provided  Mr W with high-interest loans  intended for short-term  use. So Uncle  
Buck needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN00819422Uncle Buck  was required to carry out proportionate checks  to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Mr W before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were  proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much  
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount  lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship  goes  on, the greater  the risk of it becoming  
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.  So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Uncle Buck  says it agreed to Mr Ws applications after carrying  out eligibility, 
creditworthiness and affordability checks.  And it relied on information Mr W provided about 
his monthly income  and expenditure  as well as information obtained from credit reference 
agencies. It says the information Mr W provided showed  that repaying the balances  wouldnt 
become difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend.  
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr W and Uncle Buck have said.  
loan 1
I dont think Uncle Buck was wrong  to lend Mr W loan 1. This was his first loan with Uncle 
Buck  and so I think Uncle  Buck  was entitled  to rely on the information Mr W provided. This 
suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr W didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Uncle Buck  to any underlying money  problems,  and I cant  see that there  was anything in the 
information Mr W provided or the information Uncle Buck had, which  meant that Uncle  Buck 
shouldve taken steps to verify the information  Mr W had declared. So I dont uphold  Mr Ws 
complaint about  loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr W took out the second  loan just a month after paying  loan 1  and he 
borrowed more money. But I dont think that was enough to make  Uncle  Buck think that it 
shouldnt have kept lending to Mr W. 
Uncle Buck  asked Mr W to update the information he provided about his finances each time 
he applied  for a new loan and the loan repayments  still looked to be affordable  for Mr W. 
There was no material change in his financial circumstances as far as I can see. It looked 
like Mr W had managed the monthly  repayments  on loan 1 without any evident difficulty. 
So I dont  think there was anything to make  Uncle Buck think  that Mr W would find it hard to 
manage the loan repayments on loan 2. And I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint  about loan 2.
Ref: DRN00819423loan 3
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr W applied for loan 3 the very next day after 
paying loan 2. Ive considered whether this mightve  been an early  warning sign that 
shouldve made  Uncle Buck  think carefully  about  whether Mr W needed to borrow  again to 
make up a shortfall in his finances after paying the previous loan.  That wouldve been an 
indication that the borrowing wasnt really affordable for him  and so it shouldnt  have 
provided loan 3. 
But I think its fair to take into account that this loan was for less money than Mr W had 
borrowed previously  and Mr W arranged loan 3 over a shorter repayment  term than loan 2. 
So its reasonable to think that those two things wouldve  suggested to a lender that Mr W 
wasnt becoming increasingly indebted or struggling with being over stretched financially. 
Mr W hadnt shown any signs that he was finding  it hard to pay for his borrowing  and the 
figures hed declared,  and the information  Uncle  Buck had collected, seem to support Uncle  
Bucks lending decision  loan 3 appears  to have been affordable for Mr W on the available  
information. 
Looked at overall, thinking about the amount  of the total monthly  repayments  he had to 
make for each of his loans, the questions  Uncle Buck asked Mr W and keeping  in mind that 
that these were Mr Ws first three loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for Uncle Buck  to 
rely on the level of information Mr W was providing.  And Ive seen  nothing  in the information 
it collected that shouldve made Uncle Buck think these  loans  werent sustainably  affordable  
for Mr W. 
Im sorry  that Mr W found repaying  these  loans difficult. And I accept that in reality  Mr Ws 
financial situation possibly  wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Uncle Buck obtained. 
Mr W has mentioned  that his bank statements wouldve  shown what his actual 
circumstances were. But its reasonable to expect that Uncle  Buck couldve only decided  
Mr Ws lending  applications based  on the information it had available  at the time. And, at this 
stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve required Uncle 
Buck to ask Mr W to prove what he was declaring or check  other information sources to 
verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. So I dont  
think Uncle Buck did anything wrong when it made  its lending decision without asking to 
check Mr Ws bank  statements.
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something  wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Uncle Buck did anything  wrong  in deciding to lend to Mr W. 
I appreciate that my decision is going  to disappoint  Mr W and Im sorry to have to do that  
but I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
Ref: DRN00819424my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0081942