K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds  decision  to decline a 
claim for storm  damage  under his home insurance policy  after the guttering on his property 
became damaged in high winds.
background
Mr F found that the guttering  on his property had become  damaged in high winds.  He made 
a claim under his policy.
After arranging for a surveyor to assess the damage, Admiral declined  the claim.  It said that 
the damage hadnt occurred during storm conditions as defined under the policy.  It further  
said that the damage was due to wear  and tear which was excluded from cover under the 
policy.
Mr F was unhappy at Admirals decision.  He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied it 
had been fair for Admiral  to decline  the claim.
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators findings.  He said the guttering had been  left in a 
dangerous position as a result of the high wind and was in urgent  need of repair. He thought 
this was exactly the sort of emergency for which his insurance policy should provide cover. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy doesnt  provide cover for all types of loss and damage. The insured  causes  of 
loss and damage, and which could therefore  lead to a valid claim under the policy, are 
clearly listed. Unless  Mr F has suffered a loss or damage arising  under one of these  causes, 
the policy does  not provide cover.
One of the listed  causes  is a storm. The policy defines a storm as follows:
A specific, identified storm including strong winds in excess of 47 knots (54mph) that may 
include heavy rain, snow or sleet.
I have seen the weather report for Mr Fs area on the day the damage occurred. It shows  
that there  were gale force winds  reaching a maximum  speed  of 45mph. However, this was 
insufficient to meet  the definition of a storm as given in the policy. I therefore consider that 
Mr F didnt  have a valid claim for storm damage. And I dont consider that his claim would 
have been eligible under any listed clause.
Furthermore, Admirals surveyor noted the following:
Ref: DRN05147992Due to high winds the plastic  fascia has come  away  from its timber  backing which  was the 
original fascia. The plastic fascia has detached  from the original timber because  the timber 
has rotted over time and so can no longer hold the fixings.
In other  words, although the damage occurred in high winds (albeit not a storm),  the 
underlying cause was the rotten  timber.  Im satisfied that the surveyors explanation  is 
accurate; indeed, Mr F has provided  a quotation from a roofing contractor which confirms 
that the timber  fascia was rotten.
The policy contains  an exclusion for Any loss or damage caused  by anything that happens 
gradually including wear and tear . I consider  that the rotten  timber  constitutes a wear  and 
tear issue  and this therefore confirms that Admiral was entitled  to decline the claim.
I recognise that Mr F has suffered damage to his property which  needs  urgent attention.  
However, as explained  above, I dont consider he has a valid claim under his policy. Im 
therefore satisfied  that Admiral has acted fairly  in this case.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0514799