K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  pay, in respect  of his 
home insurance claim for fire damage,  the cost of his carer driving him to and from his 
property.
background 
In March 2018 Mr D made a claim to RSA following his home being damaged  by a fire. He 
was a tenant of a housing  association, so made a claim under his contents  insurance. He is 
disabled and has a carer who visits him every  day. He moved  out without consulting RSA 
and went to stay in a caravan owned by his carer about 60 miles away.  He later told RSA 
about this. It agreed  that he needed to stay in alternative accommodation and paid him for 
the costs of renting the caravan and the fuel and mileage costs  of travelling to and from the 
caravan to the property for various necessary visits whilst repair works were carried out. 
RSA paid those  costs until early June when it said the property was able to be lived in again.
Mr D had a number of issues  with the way the claim was handled. RSA dealt with those and 
paid compensation.  Mr D has confirmed that there  is just one outstanding issue of complaint 
 that of the costs of employing a carer.
Mr D advised RSA in early June 2018 that he had had to pay for a different carer to drive  
him to and from the caravan to the property  and wished to claim for the carers time.  RSA 
asked Mr D to submit  details of the contract and any invoices. He provided a handwritten 
letter from the carer  but the carer wasnt able to supply an invoice. RSA established that the 
carer wasnt formally employed  by Mr D. It said that without the payments being supported 
by satisfactory evidence it wasnt able to consider  any payment for the carer. It also said the 
costs had been incurred as a result of Mr Ds choices over the alternative  accommodation  he 
arranged.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that RSA had acted reasonably  in 
declining to pay the costs given the information  it had available.
Mr D has subsequently  produced a timesheet completed and signed  by the carer and by 
him. RSA said its position remained  the same  that the payments werent supported and 
incurred through  Mr Ds choice of accommodation.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing firstly with Mr Ds choice  of accommodation, it appears that he initially told RSA that 
he was staying with his carer. He hadnt  told the housing association  about the fire  he 
merely told it that he was going away to stay in a caravan for a holiday. So it was his 
decision to move so far away. RSA did decide later that alternative accommodation was 
appropriate and agreed to pay Mr Ds costs of renting the caravan. I cant see any evidence 
that he was unhappy about  the situation,  RSA agreed to pay the fuel and mileage costs at 
least up until early June.
Ref: DRN06549492As for the costs of a carer, it appears that this was an informal  arrangement  it wasnt 
Mr Ds regular carer who would have  been  funded by his local authority, though possibly not 
for driving  him long distances. Nor does it appear  that the carer is registered  (at least  no 
evidence has been produced of this).  RSA was initially  willing  to consider a payment if 
sufficient evidence was provided. So far all that Mr D has provided is a handwritten letter  
with dates of visits on it and a timesheet with the same dates. RSA doesnt consider those to 
be sufficient.
But neither  document  has any official status  and Mr D hasnt shown us or RSA any 
evidence that he has paid the carer.  Its hard for me to tell, because the copy  isnt very clear  
but the timesheet appears to be a document intended to support payment from an agency.  
Its then been  modified  to replace the agency  name  with the carers  name.
Without evidence  that Mr D has actually paid the carer or any formal documents evidencing 
he contracted to do so, I dont think Mr D has produced sufficient evidence  to justify payment 
of the carer's  costs. So Im unable to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0654949