K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  
(MBFS) for damage to a car that had been supplied  to him under a hire purchase agreement 
that he didnt cause.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with MBFS that he signed 
in November 2015. At the end of the agreement arrangements  were  made  for the car to be 
collected from him by a third party on behalf of MBFS in November  18. It was arranged that 
the car would be inspected  before  it was recovered  however this didnt happen. An 
inspection report was prepared 10 days  after collection  which identified that the left front 
wing was damaged, the V5 document  was missing and the rear spoiler and front bumper 
were damaged. An invoice for charges totaling £868 was sent to Mr J for that damage. Mr J 
complained about the charges and in particular sent photographs that showed the V5 
present in the car, and he said that the damage was not present when the car was collected.  
MBFS agreed to remove the charges for the V5 and the bumper and spoiler but it said the 
damage to the left front wing was extensive  and the charge of £549.50 would remain. Mr J 
wasnt satisfied with this response so he complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She thought that the 
photographs showed that the damage  was chargeable. She thought that the collection report  
showed that there was damage  to this area of the car and so on balance she thought  that 
the damage was correctly  charged.
Mr J didnt agree and has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He 
says, in summary, that:
The collection report describes a chip not the extensive damage claimed which  could 
have easily happened after collection.
He thinks the amount  charged for such a repair is excessive  and he has obtained a 
quote for a lower  amount  which  he would  be prepared to pay.
It is clear from the additional charges that MBFS waived  that this was because of the 
photographs he took and these items were not fairly chargeable.
On 8 April 2020  I issued a provisional  decision setting  out why I was minded to uphold  Mr Js 
claim in part and reduce  the cost of repairing the wing to £304.12 including  vat to reflect  an 
estimate he had been given  from a Mercedes garage.
In my provisional decision I asked Mr J to provide some evidence of the quote. I also asked 
MBFS to confirm whether  the charge reflected the actual costs  of a repair or an amount to 
reflect the reduction in value.
Mr J said he wasnt  able to provide a quote as Mercedes would only provide a quote  
reference number.  MBFS said that they didnt agree with my decision and set out what  
would be involved in a repair.  MBFS has provided  no further evidence in support  of the 
amount claimed.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN01812542Mr J signed the hire purchase agreement in November 2015. Immediately above his 
signature it says:
This is a Hire-Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. Sign it only 
if you want to be legally  bound by its terms.
On page 3 of the agreement, under  the heading  Vehicle Condition  Terms   Please read  it 
said:
 You will maintain the vehicle in a condition  which is consistent with the attached Vehicle 
Return Standards  which form part of this agreement.  You will find a copy  of the Vehicle 
Return Standards  in your welcome pack.
The Vehicle  Return  Standards are set out on page 6 of the agreement.  They set out what  is 
acceptable wear  and tear and what is not acceptable. In relation to the body work an 
example of unacceptable damage is, Any chipping or scratching of paintwork that has 
penetrated the base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which can not be polished 
out.
Mr J signed an adequate explanations document which set out what  would happen at the 
end of the agreement if he chose to return the car. The document  said:
We will write to you near the end of your agreement reminding you of your options.  If you 
choose to return  the vehicle  to us you are obliged to pay any excess  mileage charges. You 
are also obliged to return the vehicle in keeping with the Vehicle Return  Conditions  which  
are detailed in your contract.
Mr J went ahead with the return of the car in November 2018. I can see from the collection 
report that the damage to the left front wing was noted as a c which  is reflected in the key 
as a chip. It is unfortunate that the car was not inspected at the time but it was inspected 
some 10 days  later.  The mileage recorded  does not suggest it was driven any distance. The 
inspection report identified that the cars left wing was damaged. I have seen the report with 
photos of the damage.
There was other damage and a missing V5 noted in the report  but MBFS has agreed not to 
charge for these  items  and they were removed  from the invoice. I think that this was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. The only issue is the damage  to the wing which Mr J 
disputes was there  at the time the car was collected.
I consider it to be clear  from the photos  in the report that the damage  is more than would 
reasonably be considered  to be fair wear  and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) guidelines  on fair wear  and tear. It falls within the 
terms set out in the agreement of unacceptable  damage so I think it is chargeable.
The issue  is whether it was present at the time of collection and on a balance of probabilities  
I think that it was. The damage was noted on the collection report and although  this was 
described as a chip I think it was as near as the form would  allow in terms of description. 
The damage is significant and as such I think it would have been obvious  to be noted on the 
collection form. I dont think it is likely that this damage occurred after the vehicle was 
collected and before it was inspected given that it was not driven  during  that time. 
Ref: DRN01812543MBFS has charged Mr J £549.50 for the cost of repair. I consider that Mr J had accepted  in 
the agreement  that it could  charge for the reduction in the cars value because  of any 
damage thats not fair wear  and tear, or for a repair. 
Mr J wouldve known  or ought  reasonably to have  known  from the agreement  and the 
vehicle return standards  that he was responsible for any damage that wasnt  fair wear  and 
tear. And he couldve had the car inspected and repaired before it was collected  from him.
Mr J says that he has obtained a quite from a Mercedes dealer for the replacement of the 
wing that comes to £304.12  including VAT which he says is a fair charge. A verified  copy of 
that estimate  is not available  but it is subject  to a quote number and Ive no reason to doubt  
what Mr J says. MBFS sent Mr J an invoice  for a sum of £549.50 without confirming whether 
the charge was for depreciation  because of the damage or the actual cost of a repair. It has 
not provided any evidence that supports the costs it has charged  Mr J which would allow  me 
to assess whether it is fair and reasonable. 
I think that I am able to consider  whether  the charge is fair and reasonable and in line with 
the terms and conditions set out in Mr Js agreement and the vehicle standards and also the 
BVRLA guidelines. I think that the charge is unreasonable and should be limited to the 
amount quoted by a Mercedes dealer for a repair. I havent seen any evidence  that supports 
the figure charged by MBFS for this repair or indeed  whether it was ever carried out. 
Similarly, I havent seen any evidence that this figure is the depreciation value.  I cant see 
any evidence which suggests  that this amount is anything other than arbitrary and so I cant  
say that it is fair.
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part and I direct that 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  reduce the amount for the damage  to the 
quote of £304.12 including vat.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2021.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0181254