K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Oakam Ltd lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans Oakam provided  to Mr H between August and 
November 2011.
loan number date started amount termweekly 
repaymentdate ended 
1 20/08/2011 £200.00 6 months £15.00 08/11/2011
2 08/11/2011 £100.00 6 months £18.00 outstanding
Loan 2 was a refinance  of loan 1. In addition to the £100 shown above  Mr H also borrowed 
around £166 to repay the remainder of loan 1.
The most recent adjudicator that looked at the complaint thought that it should be upheld.  
Oakam disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN01839802And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and have  explained why below.
As our adjudicator said,  the checks Oakam did showed that Mr H was having problems 
managing his money. He had a significant  amount of other debt and he was struggling  to 
make the repayments  to this. So I agree that this shouldve prompted Oakam  to make  more 
detailed checks into Mr Hs finances.  This was to ensure that he could  make  the loan 
repayments sustainably.  
If Oakam had had made these checks its likely it wouldve seen that Mr H was borrowing 
and repaying significant  amounts to other short term lenders in addition to his other  debts. 
And he was having  problems  making  the repayments to these loans as well.  
I think that Oakam wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. 
And I think it wouldve seen Mr H wouldnt have  been able repay the loans in a sustainable 
way. So I think that Oakam  shouldnt have given both of these loans to Mr H and I think hes 
lost out as a result of this
So Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint and Oakam should put things right.
putting things right  what Oakam needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Hs credit file
If Mr H still owes  Oakam any of the principal  balance  he borrowed on his final loan Oakam 
should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance. Oakam 
should then re-work  the account as if all payments made by Mr H went  to towards the 
principal. But importantly,  Oakam needs to make sure that Mr H doesnt  repay  more  than the 
principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr H hasnt repaid  the principal he borrowed Oakam  can deduct this from 
the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr H has already paid enough to repay the principal 
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if Oakam no longer  owns  this debt, and it wants to make  a deduction due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr H.
Ref: DRN01839803*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest.  Oakam  must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Oakam should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0183980