K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
him money.
background
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Mr M. All the loans were due to run 
for periods that ranged between 7 days and 25 days and to be paid in one go at the end of 
the loan term. All the loans were repaid except for loan 4  which  hasnt yet been  paid.  
Heres a table showing  more information  about  these loans:  
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 17/11/2013 26/02/2014 1 £250.00 £293.75 3
2 03/03/2014 26/03/2014 1 £300.00 £390.00 0
3 09/04/2014 25/04/2014 1 £100.00 £130.00 0
4 26/04/2014 - 1 £250.00 £325.00 1
Mr M complained to Mr Lender  that minimal affordability checks  were done and the loans 
werent affordable.
Mr Lender didnt uphold  his complaint. In summary, Mr Lender said that the checks  carried  
out were proportionate  to the loan amounts  and the results of the checks  showed no 
evidence of financial difficulty. But as a gesture of goodwill  Mr Lender offered to reduce the 
outstanding balance Mr M owed on loan 4 to the remaining capital borrowed of £175 (so that 
he wouldve paid no interest  on the loan)  and to remove  adverse information  about the loan 
from his  credit file once the loan was paid.  
Mr M didnt  think  this offer went far enough to put things right  and our adjudicator agreed.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought loans 2 - 4 shouldnt  have 
been given. He set out what he thought  Mr Lender should do to put things right.
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  
So the complaint comes  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN07851172Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably  repay  his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Loan 1
Mr Lender told us about the checks it did before  lending to Mr M and Ive seen a summary of 
the results of those  checks.
To my mind,  they dont show anything that I think should reasonably have made Mr Lender 
think loan 1 wasnt affordable for Mr M.
Mr M told us that Mr Lender wouldve seen he had money problems if it had done better 
checks. So Ive thought  carefully about  whether  Mr Lender ought reasonably to have looked  
into Mr Ms finances in more detail or taken steps  to verify the information hed provided 
when he applied for loan 1. 
Ref: DRN07851173I think its fair to take into account that this was Mr Ms first loan from Mr Lender. I think  
Mr Lender was reasonably entitled to rely on Mr M to provide all the information it asked in 
order to be able to make an informed lending decision. The repayments that Mr M had 
agreed to make on this loan looked comfortably affordable  compared  to the income that hed 
declared to Mr Lender. And when he applied  for loan 1, Mr M didnt have any track  record  of 
payment problems with Mr Lender  so I dont think Mr Lender had any reason to think  hed 
have difficulty paying the loan. 
I appreciate that Mr Ms circumstances  might not have  been fully reflected in the information  
Mr Lender had. But, looked at overall,  given the loan repayment amounts, what was 
apparent about  Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his borrowing history with the lender at 
that stage, I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate  for Mr Lender to ask him for the 
amount of information  that wouldve been needed  to show  the lending  was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first loan.
So I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint about  loan 1  even though it turned out that he had 
problems making all the repayments on time.
Loan 2 onwards
Mr Lender told us that prior to approving the second  loan, it conducted an expenditure 
assessment to ensure the repayments  were affordable.  The results of the affordability  
assessment showed  that after the repayment,  Mr M would have still been left with a 
disposable income of £385 for any unforeseen expenses.
But by the time he asked  for loan 2, Id expect Mr Lender also to have taken  into account 
Mr Ms repayment record on loan 1. I think a reasonable lender ought to have  realised that 
his record of rollovers on loan 1 indicated that Mr M had money problems and he was finding  
it difficult to afford to pay for the borrowing hed taken out. Mr M had to rollover  his loan (in 
other words delay paying it) three times  in a row and a loan that he planned to pay in 7 days 
when he took it out wasnt  actually repaid until approximately  3 months  later. I think  that was 
a sufficiently clear indication to Mr Lender that Mr M was likely having problems managing 
his money  borne out by his application to borrow more money very soon after finally 
paying loan 1.  
Mr Lender gave Mr M loan 2 just five days after he repaid his first loan  which I think  
suggested that he likely needed the extra  cash  because he was short of money after paying 
loan 1. And I think it shouldve been of concern to Mr Lender that loan 2 was for more  than 
the amount hed already  shown he had a problem repaying.
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Mr Lender  to conclude that it was likely Mr M would be 
able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable manner.  
Our adjudicator also said that by loan 2, proportionate checks would most likely have shown 
Mr M was having problems managing his money.  And if Mr Lender had done proportionate  
checks its likely it wouldve  become  aware  that Mr M had recently  defaulted on two other 
short term loans and was still in arrears on both. 
Ive taken into account that the credit checks that Mr Lender has sent me dont appear to 
show this information   its credit check showed  that Mr M had no accounts registered  as 
defaulting or in a delinquent status  within a three-year period prior to his loans.  
Ref: DRN07851174I dont think thats  particularly surprising. Depending on who is asking for the information, 
what checks are done and when information  is reported, its possible that not all credit 
reference agencies  would  provide the same  information. And this doesnt affect my decision 
overall. 
I think Mr Lender  already had enough information  to be able to see that loan 2 and any 
further borrowing, was likely to be unaffordable for Mr M when he applied for loan 2 - based 
on his evident  repayment problems he had on loan 1 that Ive described above and the fact 
he was asking to borrow even more money  so soon after paying  loan 1.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loans 2, 3 and 4.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do 
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding  debts it should buy these back  if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. Otherwise, Mr Lender  should liaise  with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results  outlined  below.
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  2 and 3 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 4 and treat any payments 
Mr M made  towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ms loan 4 account as Ive directed results in Mr M effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed  in that case, Mr Lender  should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement.  
If reworking Mr Ms loan 4 account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, then 
Mr Lender can use the total refund for loans 2 and 3 to offset this. And if there is still 
an outstanding  capital balance then I remind Mr Lender that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loan 4 
when it is repaid
if Mr M would like help to manage his finances  theres more  information on our 
website about  how to get free debt advice or help setting up a repayment plan  or 
we can provide contact details if he gives  us a call. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN07851175my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 2, 3 and 4 and PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should put things  right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0785117