K822xcomplaint
Miss V complains  about how The Co-operative Bank  Plc (The Co-op)  has handled her loan 
account.
background 
Miss V took out a career development  loan in 2015 with The Co-op with repayments that 
were due to start in 2016. She says The Co-op  agreed to defer those repayments due to her 
illness until 2017. But The Cop-op has made a number of mistakes  with its administration of 
the loan since.  In summary  she say  The Co-op incorrectly told her she was in arrears  and 
then transferred her account to a third party company I will call W for collection. She also 
says The Co-op  made  mistakes in calculating how much she owed and that its told her that 
it can transfer the loan back  to it to administer but cant offer the same level of service.
The Co-op accepts  making mistakes  in how its dealt with Miss Vs loan and has apologised. 
It says its explained  what took place and has paid Miss V £250 compensation. The Co-op 
says it shouldnt have  allowed  Miss V to defer  the start of the repayments as that led to 
some of the problems. It says it has recalled the loan from W but cant  allow  online account 
access but will arrange to write to Miss V with the transaction details. The Co-op has agreed  
to increase its compensation offer to £500  and says there has been no impact on Miss Vs 
credit file.
Miss V had already brought her complaint  to us and our adjudicator  agreed  that The Co-op 
had made  a number  of mistakes here. But that its apology and offer of compensation was 
fair and reasonable. The adjudicator thought  The Co-op had fairly agreed to write to Miss V 
in the absence of online account access and that the payments were to be paid to The Co-
op.
Miss V doesnt accept  that view and in summary  says The Co-op has breached  the terms of 
the original agreement and says the loan should be written off. She says she can no longer 
monitor her payments and in the circumstances of whats  taken place  that is important. And 
that she doesnt wish to deal with The Co-ops  debt department as shes not in financial 
difficulties.
The adjudicator reconsidered his view and came  to the same overall view and thought Miss 
V wasnt dealing  with The Co-ops debt collection department but a support  team.  The 
adjudicator also thought  Miss V had the benefit  of the loan and it would be unfair to order 
The Co-op to write of the loan. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Miss V will be disappointed by 
my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that The Co-op  has made a number of mistakes in 
administering Miss Vs loan account.  I can see that Miss V has made a number of calls to 
The Cop-op  about the problems and I have no doubt she was caused a significant amount of 
stress and inconvenience. I also appreciate Miss Vs concerns  going forward  that there may 
be a repeat of the problems she has experienced.
Ref: DRN04589852There is no real need  for me to repeat all of the problems  Miss V faced  as they are well 
known to the parties and that The Co-op  has accepted that most  of the main problems were 
due to its mistakes. But Im satisfied that The Co-op has fairly apologised and explained  
what happened and why. I also think its acted fairly by paying and offering a fair and 
reasonable level of compensation.
I can see that The Co-op has already paid £250 compensation and has made what  I think is 
a fair and reasonable offer of a further  £250  compensation.  Im satisfied that total offer fairly  
reflects whats taken place here and also takes  account of the fact that I dont think Miss V 
suffered any financial  loss as a result of the mistakes.
I appreciate that the Co-op cant offer the same level of service that it would have if the 
mistakes hadnt been made and that it cant offer Miss V online account  access.  I accept 
why Miss V says that is important. But I cant fairly order The Co-op  to do something it cant 
do. And I think The Co-op has fairly  agreed to write to Miss V with details of the account  
transactions when  they are made. So I think The Co-op has offered a reasonable alternative  
to providing online account access.
Im satisfied that Miss V has had the benefit of the loan and so I dont think it would be fair to 
order that the Co-op write off the balance of the loan. I appreciate that Miss V says that the 
original agreement is no longer valid. But I think it would be for a court to determine  such 
matters. I also dont  think it matters which department of The Co-op  deals with Miss Vs loan 
and can see that its given Miss V contact details of it.
Overall whilst I accept  The Co-op  has made  mistakes here Im satisfied for the reasons  I 
have explained  its made a fair and reasonable offer to put matters  right.  I can see that Miss 
V is considering alternative action and so I accept why she may not wish to accept the Co-
ops offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank  Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
a further £250 compensation.  Miss Vs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0458985