K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Bank of Scotland  Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs A took out a credit card in February  1995.  This complaint is about a credit card PPI 
policy taken out several  years later in April 2004.  The policy  was added to Mrs As credit  
card account  when she applied for the card during  a phone  call.
Mrs A says Bank of Scotland  mis-sold  her PPI. She says she took out the policy under 
duress. She said Bank  of Scotland did not give concise information to her. She also adds 
that she did not make a claim on the policy in 2006  which supports her view that she wasnt  
given enough  information on it. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case.
Bank of Scotland has said it sold the policy to Mrs A through a telephone call several  years  
after she took out a credit card. Mrs A has questioned whether the policy was sold to her 
during a phone  call in April 2004. Bank of Scotland has provided a screen shot from its 
internal system that shows to me that the policy was sold during a phone  call in April 2004  
so I will proceed that this was the case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint for the following reasons:
 Mrs A says she took out the policy under duress and was felt obliged to accept  it. I 
acknowledge what she has said. I also havent been able to listen to a call recording or 
look through a call script  from the time of sale. But from what  I know of how Bank of 
Scotland carried out these sales and also that the sale was conducted several  years  
after Mrs A took out the card, I think it is more likely than not that she was 
recommended PPI and she took it on that advice.
 As I have already  concluded, I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs A, 
so it had to check  if it was suitable for her. In addition to ensuring the policy  was 
suitable, Bank of Scotland had to ensure that the information  it gave Mrs A was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that she could make an informed choice about the 
insurance. 
Ref: DRN05944262 When looking at Mrs As circumstances at the time, I think the policy was a suitable  
recommendation. I say this because although  Mrs A has told us that she was entitled 
to sick pay with her employer at the time of sale (at least 6 months  full pay),  the policy 
would have provided  a useful benefit in a difficult  time. The policy  would have paid in 
addition to her sick pay, for up to 12 months  if she couldnt work. So I think she would 
have still benefited and found  value  from the cover provided by the PPI policy during 
this time. 
 I also dont think on this occasion Mrs A was affected by any of the exclusions  or 
limitations within the policy such as those given  for pre-existing  medical conditions.  
 Im not sure if the costs were clearly  disclosed to Mrs A. But I think she wouldve taken 
the policy  anyway even if they were,  for the reasons  I have already given. The PPI 
policy was competitively priced and affordable.  
So I think it unlikely Mrs A would  have made  a different decision if better  information  had 
been provided and I think  the policy recommended  was suitable for her. 
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mrs A but I cannot find a reason to uphold  her 
complaint. 
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. It offered a 
goodwill payment in relation to the amount  of commission  and profit  share it received from 
the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Finally, Mrs A says she did not claim  on the policy in 2006.  Mrs A may wish to approach the 
insurer again to see if it would be prepared to accept  and consider a retrospective claim.  If 
she does pursue a retrospective claim and finds that she has concerns in this regard, then 
she should first express those concerns  to the insurer, and if unable to reach  a satisfactory  
conclusion, she may be able to bring  a complaint relating to the retrospective  claim to this 
service as a separate matter. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs A. But Bank  of Scotland Plc has paid back to Mrs A, a goodwill 
payment in relation to commission and profit share it got from the PPI premium.  I can see 
that it has already  paid this so I dont need to award anything  further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0594426