K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
Miss K was given eight  loans by Satsuma between  December  2013 and June 2018. She had 
a further five loan requests declined during that period. Each  of Miss Ks loans was 
repayable in either weekly or monthly instalments and over periods ranging  from 26 weeks  
to 12 months. Miss K successfully repaid her first seven  loans  but a balance remained 
outstanding on the final loan when  she made  her complaint.  A summary of Miss Ks 
borrowing from Satsuma is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Agreed 
Term
1 03/12/2013 09/06/2014 £  130 26 weeks
2 11/12/2015 13/06/2016 £  100 26 weeks
3 10/03/2016 24/03/2016 £  100 26 weeks
4 20/06/2016 16/01/2017 £  200 43 weeks
5 22/05/2017 01/04/2018 £  140 10 months
6 21/09/2017 01/07/2018 £  100 9 months
7 02/01/2018 10/05/2018 £  250 12 months
8 15/06/2018 - £  100 12 months
Miss Ks complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  Satsuma 
had been wrong  to give the first six loans  to Miss K. But she didnt  think  last two loans 
should have been agreed. So she asked Satsuma  to pay Miss K some compensation.
Satsuma didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Miss K accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss K could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN04030182But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss K could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC),  define sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Miss K. It asked her for details of her 
income and her normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies  about 
other credit repayments that Miss K would need to make over the coming months.  And it 
then used this information to calculate how much disposable income  Miss K had left over 
each month. Satsuma also used the credit reference agency checks  to gather some  more 
information about Miss Ks financial situation at that time.
The credit checks that Satsuma did before the early  loans  showed that Miss K was having 
some problems managing  her money. The checks showed that she had a number of 
accounts in arrears. I think this should have caused  some  concerns to Satsuma. But on 
balance I dont think these  concerns  would  have been so great that Satsuma  shouldnt  have 
agreed to give the loans  to Miss K.
Ive also seen that there was a significant gap between  Miss K repaying her first loan and the 
second loan being approved. Given the length  of that gap I think Satsuma was entitled  to 
treat Miss Ks application for the second  loan as if it were from a new customer and base its 
checks accordingly.
Ref: DRN04030183The repayments that Miss K had agreed  to make on her first five loans were  relatively  
modest compared to the income that shed declared  to Satsuma. And, even  after allowing for 
her other expenditure, the repayments appeared to be easily  affordable. So given  these 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Miss Ks circumstances at the time, and her 
borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma  to 
ask her for the amount  of information  that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before  agreeing the first five loans. 
I do think, when  Miss K asked for loan 6, that Satsuma should have realised that it couldnt 
safely rely on the information she was providing  about her finances. I think it should have 
taken steps at that time to independently verify Miss Ks true financial position. We asked 
Miss K for copies of her bank statements so we could see what better checks would  have 
shown Satsuma. She didnt provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks  
would have shown  Satsuma that it shouldnt  have given loan 6 to Miss K.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Satsumas  lending history with Miss K I think  by loan 7 
the lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Satsuma should  have realised that it shouldnt  provide any further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Miss Ks sixth loan request in this chain. By the time she asked for 
loan 7 Miss K had been borrowing with little break for almost two years.  I have 
considered that there was a gap in Miss Ks borrowing between  loans  4 and 5. But 
given what had gone before I dont think that was long enough to give Satsuma any 
confidence that Miss Ks finances had returned to a more  stable footing.
By the time Miss K asked for loan 7 shed been  borrowing from Satsuma for a 
lengthy period  and she wasnt making any inroads  to the amount she owed the 
lender. Loan 7 was by far the largest loan shed taken to date. I think that this pattern 
of borrowing should have indicated to Satsuma  that Miss K was most  likely having 
significant problems  managing her money. 
Miss K was given  loan 8 whilst she was still repaying loan 6, and only a few weeks  
after she had repaid loan 7 much  earlier than had been originally agreed.  So 
Satsuma ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss K was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her 
finances and that Miss Ks indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Miss K lost out because  Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ks indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Ks 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
Ref: DRN04030184I have seen that Miss K has said that she was suffering from some  mental  health issues at 
the time she was taking  these loans. She says those problems greatly affected her decision 
making capability. But that wasnt, perhaps understandably,  something  that she told 
Satsuma about  at the time of the loans. And I dont think  its something  that I would have 
expected Satsuma to have  discovered for itself from proportionate checks.
In summary  I dont think Satsuma should have agreed to lend to Miss K from loan 7 
onwards. Satsuma needs to pay Miss K some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to lend to Miss K after, and including, the loan that 
she took on 2 January  2018 (loan 7). So for both of those loans Satsuma should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss K on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loan 7, and loan 8 once it has been fully repaid, 
should be removed  from Miss Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Miss K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If Miss K still owes Satsuma any of the principal balance she borrowed on her final loan, 
Satsuma may deduct this from the compensation that is due to her. But, to be clear,  that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments Miss K has made on that loan as though they were  applied 
against the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Miss Ks complaint and direct Provident Personal  
Credit Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2019. 
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0403018