K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  in 2003 shortly after taking out a further advance  linked  to his 
mortgage. He applied for the further  mortgage advance and PPI policy  completing the forms 
at home  and returning them to Nationwide either  through the post or dropping off in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £100 a month towards Mr Ls mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £4.99 a month. 
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as an Assembly Worker. He has told us he was not entitled  
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying his mortgage should he be 
unable to work. He had been in his job for about four years and may have been entitled  to a 
small redundancy payment. Mr L has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account opened in 2002. 
The PPI was taken  out just after a further mortgage advance  was applied for in 2003 and the 
mortgage account was closed in May 2005  and the PPI policy  was cancelled.  
Mr Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ls representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN02679172The information Mr L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN02679173The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ls case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN02679174Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
When Mr L applied for and took out his mortgage in July 2002, he indicated on the 
application form he did not want to take out PPI to cover his repayments.  When he applied 
for the further  advance by an application  form signed May 2003, he ticked  on that form to 
say he did want PPI. 
Mr L then had to complete  a separate form for the PPI which was dated June 2003.  On this 
form Mr L indicated the amount  of monthly  benefit  he wanted; the type of cover, choosing to 
take out Accident, Sickness and Unemployment cover from a selection  of options set out; 
and he also made  a choice between 12 months  or 24 months cover.
The forms Mr L completed were  hand  completed  and show he signed the forms at different 
dates to the Business. Also, the witness to the further advance application lived local to Mr L, 
so these forms were completed by Mr L at home, returning them, having made his choices, 
to Nationwide.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr L knew the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr L disagrees.   Looking at what  
happened when  Nationwide  sold Mr L the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided  advice. 
This is reflected in what I have indicated above,  as it seems Mr L signed  the forms for the 
further advance  and the PPI at different times and completed them  himself.  So Nationwide 
did not assess his situation at the time and all information was input by Mr L.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr L. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr L was given a broad  description of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr L was unable 
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr L would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be. In fact, 
as stated above, Mr L chose what cover  he wanted  accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
Mr L had to select the amount of benefit he wanted in £50 units  in line with the instructions 
on the application form. So I believe he knew precisely how much the monthly benefit was 
should he make a claim. But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether 
Ref: DRN02679175Nationwide gave sufficient  information  about  the actual cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr L agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr L? To what extent  did Mr L 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr L. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr L would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Nationwide  done  things properly. 
Mr L says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
Ref: DRN02679176As Ive found above, Mr L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr L thought  he was getting  is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr L knew he would  have to pay something 
for the policy, I cannot see on the documents provided that Nationwide  told him the exact  
premium at the point  he applied  for the policy. It is indicated he should have had available  a 
leaflet which  gave the cost for every £50 of cover, but this was not giving the precise  amount 
for the level of cover  chosen. Having said that, it seems likely Mr L would have been told the 
cost before the policy started, so if the costs were significantly  at odds with his expectations 
at the point of sale, its possible he might have raised that with Nationwide at the time, or 
reconsidered his decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr L would have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure when he chose to take out the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr L knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy,  but this exclusion was 
only for the first 12 months the policy was active; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
hadnt wasnt a permanent employee or o a fixed term contract, for at least  six 
months before the start of the claim;
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. Mr L was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Mr L wouldve been 
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr L didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  he had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
As Mr L had to choose if he wanted  cover for claims for up to either 12 or 24 months on his 
application form for the PPI, I think he should  have  been fully aware of the length of cover  he 
was getting. And he didnt  have any other  means  to fall back  on. 
Ref: DRN02679177In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr L thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly 
mortgage payments  was of benefit  to him and would  help him manage the consequences 
should he be unable  to work  in the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy  allowed 
for multiple  claims  to be made, it could help reduce  his outgoings  at a difficult  and uncertain 
time, ensuring his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he was made redundant, or unable to work through  accident  or disability. In 
the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr L would  have taken out the policy  
in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr L 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Nationwide  should pay Mr L compensation, as that would put him in a better 
position than he would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN02679178Im also aware that Mr L thinks  Nationwide  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr L, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr L and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr L in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0267917