K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Miss M says AXA France  IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I havent set out that detailed  
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Ms 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Miss M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. I say this because to get the cover, Miss M had to sign her signature for it on 
a space in the store  card application just for the cover. Miss M signed the form to get the 
cover and her signature for it was separate her signature for the credit. So, if Miss M had 
only wanted the credit, she could have left the PPI section blank. 
AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. Miss M has provided no 
testimony about whether advice was given.  I have seen no evidence  of a detailed 
recommendation having been  made to Miss M in this sale.  So, considering all the 
submissions made  in this case, and in the absence of any detailed  testimony  from Miss 
M to the contrary,  it seems most likely  that AXA didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss M. So, 
it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give 
Ref: DRN05261682Miss M enough clear  and timely information so she could decide for herself it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss M. Miss M told us she 
had some sick pay she could have relied on but hasnt provided any details about it. The 
PPI could have  paid out in addition to Miss Ms sick pay and for longer than her employer 
would have paid her at her full rate of pay, most  likely. Miss M told us she had some 
death in service benefits at work,  but this wouldnt have helped her if she was too ill to 
work or lost her job. Miss M told us she would have been entitled to a payment in the 
event she was made redundant. But the policy would have reduced her reliance  on that 
payment in the event she lost her job. And Miss M told us she had no savings and no 
other insurance she could  use to make her repayments in the event of long-term ill 
health, or if she lost her job. Although  Miss M says she had medical conditions some  
time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing 
medical condition  exclusion wouldve caused  her to change  her mind about  taking  out 
the policy. I say this because Miss Ms chickenpox  was a childhood illness for her which 
happened some  32 years before the sale of her PPI and seems not to have caused her 
ongoing issues since. Miss Ms caesarean was a maternity related operation some 10 
years before  the sale. Miss M has provided no detailed testimony about either condition 
and theres no testimony that they had caused  her ongoing issues or any time off work in 
the intervening  years  before the sale. Miss M told us recently that she also has some  
experience of high blood pressure and anxiety but has not responded to our request  for 
more information  about them. So, considering all the submissions that have been made 
to us in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence that Miss M would have considered  
that her medical conditions would have been  the likely cause of significant  time off in the 
future such that better  or more  information  about  the policy would have put Miss M off 
taking it out. It also looks  like the cover was affordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. Because  of this I dont think  Miss M would 
have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons  to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss M would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Ms representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
Ref: DRN05261683But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Miss Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0526168