K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) packaged bank account in 2009.  She paid a 
monthly fee for the account which provided  several benefits in return.
background
From what  Ive seen, MRs Ss account was opened as a fee-free account in February 2002. 
It remained a fee-free  account until January 2009,  when it was upgraded to the URCA. 
Mrs Ss account reverted to a fee-free account in October 2018.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Halifax mis-sold the URCA to Mrs S and didnt 
recommend that Halifax should pay her any compensation. Mrs S didnt agree so she asked  
for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Mrs Ss complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Ss complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think the packaged bank account was 
mis-sold to her. Ill explain  why.
I should start by explaining that its not in dispute  whether Mrs S had a choice about taking 
the URCA.  Thats to say, its clear from her complaint points that she was aware that she 
was upgrading  her account to one that came with a monthly fee. But what  Ive thought  about  
is whether Mrs S made  that choice  to upgrade based on the right information.
Our adjudicator explained that she didnt  think Halifax  recommended  the URCA to Mrs S. 
Mrs S disagreed, as she thought Halifax did in fact recommend the account to her, based on 
its benefits.
In terms of banking  products,  a recommendation means the business needs  to recommend 
a product after having completed an in-depth analysis of the customers needs. 
From what  I know about Halifaxs sales processes, I think its more likely than not that it 
didnt recommend the URCA. Thats not to say that it wouldnt have mentioned  the accounts 
features or tried to highlight the benefits  of it. But it means that it wouldnt have asked  
personal questions  about Mrs Ss circumstances to establish whether those benefits were  
appropriate for her. 
Ref: DRN09862022Im further persuaded that this was an information-only sale based  on what Mrs S has said:  
When  the URCA was recommended to me it was a very informal procedure. I queued at the 
counter and a young cashier  suggested that as I appear to me struggling with my finances  
and incurring £1 a day overdraft charges and that the URCA  would suit my needs much 
better.
Whilst I understand Mrs S has used  the word  recommended, in this case, I dont think  it 
Halifax made a personalised recommendation. The account was more likely than not 
suggested, or highlighted,  to Mrs S, but I dont think it was recommended  in the sense Ive 
already explained.
Although Halifax  didnt recommend the URCA to Mrs S, it still had to make  sure it gave her 
enough clear information  about  the account  for her to decide if she wanted  it. 
When Mrs S raised her complaint to this service she clearly explained what she believes 
Halifax told her about  the URCA  at the time she upgraded. I can see she says she was told 
about the various insurance benefits, and about  a benefit linked to the fee shed be charged 
to use her overdraft, as an URCA customer.
Mrs S explains that she understood the URCA fee to be for an overdrawn arrangement with 
added perks. In effect,  Mrs S says that she didnt  realise she was paying to have the 
URCAs insurance benefits, but instead  she thought she was paying  for preferential overdraft 
terms, and the insurance benefits of the URCA were provided  for free.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs S has said, but I havent found  enough  to conclude that 
Halifax treated her unfairly.
I say this because,  from what Mrs S says, its clear that there was some sort of a discussion 
about the URCA before she chose to upgrade. I note that Mrs S has referred to the account 
being sold in 2002 rather than 2009, and to slightly different benefits and a different  monthly 
fee that what were  applicable at the time.  But I think thats because  the upgrade took place 
over 10 years ago and Mrs Ss recollections have most likely faded over time. In any case, I 
think the important  thing to note is that some sort of a discussion took place, and Mrs S was 
told about the URCAs benefits  and monthly  fee.
I understand that with hindsight Mrs S has said that the URCA was mis-sold as it was 
suggested for the overdraft benefit, and she already  held some  of the various  insurances  
that it included.  But even if Halifax had made it clearer that the accounts monthly fee was for 
the overdraft benefit  and the insurance  benefits, I still think  Mrs S wouldve taken it. She 
willingly took out the URCA,  knowing  that after the upgrade  shed be entitled to insurances  
that she didnt  have before it. And whilst I acknowledge that the overdraft benefit may have 
been positioned as the main benefit, I still think Mrs S was aware the account came as a 
package  with all of the benefits.  
Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mrs S everything  it should have about the URCA. And she 
might not have wanted or made use of all of the benefits that came  with it. But because  I 
think she was aware  of the accounts  benefits  and monthly fee, I havent seen enough to 
make me think that Mrs S wouldnt still have taken the account even if Halifax  had told her 
more about it. 
Ref: DRN09862023I want to reassure Mrs S that Ive looked at all the information I have about  her complaint. 
And Ive thought carefully about  everything shes said. But having  done so I dont think  
Halifax mis-sold  the Ultimate Reward  Current Account to her. So I dont  think it owes her any 
money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0986202