K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a new credit card in 1999.  
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint and recommended it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mr L disagrees and hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L says he has no memory of ever agreeing to buy the PPI. Given how long ago this was 
however, Im not surprised. But Ive seen the postal application form Mr L used and theres  a 
question on it asking  him to choose  whether he wants  this type of policy.  Mr L ticked the 
yes box and so in my view this document does demonstrate that Mr L must have wanted  
the policy at the time. And because he specifically selected the cover, its clear to me that he 
consented to the PPI.
Because this was a postal application, it wasnt  an advised sale. But Capital One still had a 
responsibility to provide  information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
My experience of these  Capital One postal  sales, from that time period, is that the 
application form was accompanied by some information about the terms and conditions. And 
I note Mr L was prompted on the form to read through these. As he most probably filled in 
the form in his own time without any input from Capital One, I think he probably had enough 
information and time in which to make his own informed choice. 
I can certainly see how Capital One could have  made improvements to the application  form 
to make it clearer.  But Im afraid  this doesnt change how I view the case and I still think he 
would have gone on to buy the PPI policy.
This is because the evidence  points to him wanting  the cover. I also think  Mr L was eligible 
for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. The cost of the PPI was 69p for every  £100 of balance  outstanding on his credit card 
and I dont think this would have been  unaffordable for him.
Mr L may have benefitted from sick pay with his job although I think  this would have been 
quite moderate.  But as Ive already said, this wasnt an advised  sale,  so the choice about 
having PPI was for him to make. And in the event of a successful claim, the policy  wouldve 
paid off 10% of his outstanding balance for up to a year. I think this is most likely why he 
specifically chose to have PPI when he filled out his application form. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN07947652I dont uphold this complaint or direct Capital  One (Europe) plc to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0794765