K821x#15complaint
Mr F is seeking  to recover £4,305 from TSB Bank plc (TSB), which was stolen from his 
bank account  as a result of a third-party  scam.
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mr F unwittingly authorised the payment  and 
it could not reasonably have intervened or done more  to try to recoup the money from the 
receiving bank. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint 
for the following reasons:
It is common ground that Mr F authorised the scam  payment  of £4,305.  He was duped  by 
the scammers into thinking  that large fraudulent  transactions had been attempted  on his 
account, and in order to protect his money, Mr F needed to move it to a temporary  safe  
account. Mr F was sceptical at first, and he logged into his online banking to see if he could 
see the attempted transactions the fraudster was referring to. He told the fraudster he 
couldnt see any transactions appearing on his accounts but the fraudster told him they were 
still pending  so they wouldnt  yet show up. 
Mr F said he was persuaded that the caller  was genuine as he knew lots of details about his 
accounts  including exactly how much he had available in them.  Mr F didnt  think  anyone 
but himself and TSB could have known this information and so he was persuaded the 
person he was talking  to must be calling from TSB.
Mr F held two current accounts with TSB at the time.  So, on 17 October 2018, Mr F logged  
into his online banking  and transferred  the majority of both account  balances to the safe 
account. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr F was the victim  of a 
sophisticated scam. He logged  into his online banking using his security  credentials to 
request the payment. So, although he did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under 
the Payment Services  Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr F 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
Ref: DRN08186532In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
TSB declined to offer Mr F a refund of the £4,305 - in its submissions to this service - it said 
it didnt believe it had done anything wrong in carrying out Mr Fs instructions to make the 
payment  Mr F had authorised the sending of the payment himself  despite  there  being  
numerous warnings  about this type of scam on its website. 
TSB said there was nothing about  the payments themselves that shouldve put TSB on 
notice that Mr F mightve been at risk of financial harm. But it did acknowledge that it hadnt 
chased the beneficiary bank as quickly as it shouldve done, when it didnt receive a 
response within the 30 days expected, and to recognise this, it offered Mr F £25 in 
compensation  which  has now been paid.
But Im satisfied the evidence before us indicates that TSB shouldve done  more to protect 
Mr F when  he was initially making  the payment  and that there were indicators that Mr F was 
potentially falling victim  to a scam  meaning  TSB missed an opportunity  to step in and 
question the payment before it left Mr Fs account.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the activity that took place during the scam.  Mr F held two current  accounts 
with TSB at the time,  one of which he appears  to have  mainly used as a savings/funding 
account (Account  1) and another,  which he appears to use for everyday spending (Account 
2). Following the fraudsters instructions, On 17 October 2018,  Mr F logged into his online 
banking and transferred the majority  of both accounts to the fraudsters. 
Mr F transferred his entire balance of £1,468.39 from Account  1 to Account 2  
reducing his balance on Account 1 to zero. 
He then transfered the total balance from Account  2  now amounting  to £4,305  - to 
the safe account i.e. the fraudsters account,  reducing the balance on Account 2 to 
40p. 
Both transfers were  completed within 20 minutes  of each other.
Ive compared  this activity to how Mr F usually manages his accounts by looking at his 
statements from the months prior to the scam.   
Mr F usually  maintains a balance of over £1,000 on Account 1  often considerably  more  
than this. But the internal transfer  he makes  during  the scam drains this account  completely. 
This is quickly  followed by the second transfer, from Account 2, which also drains the 
majority of this account  leaving Mr F with just 40p. The highest payment to leave Account 
2 in the months prior the scam  is £750,  via cheque. His balance is never less than £1,400 
and is generally  over £2,000. I cant see that he makes any faster payments out of the 
account at all. 
The payment in question here is therefore  more than five times the amount of any payment 
type he has made in the previous months.  It reduces his balance to 40p when it is normally  
Ref: DRN08186533over £1,000 in credit.  And it is also made  using  a method Mr F hasnt  used before to a new 
payee.
Within 20 minutes both of Mr Fs TSB current accounts go from having healthy balances  - 
amounting to thousands of pounds - to virtually zero. Mr F is left without enough funds to 
cover his usual direct  debits that are due to leave his account  a few days later,  and when 
they eventually  do leave, these debits take him into his overdraft. I cant  see that Mr F had 
been overdrawn before. 
In summary,  all of Mr Fs TSB accounts are drained  of funds within  a 20 minute period. 
And it is this activity that I think  ought to have  fairly  and reasonably caused TSB some  
concern that Mr F was at risk of financial harm  especially when the emptying of multiple 
accounts can be a key indicator of safe account  scams. 
Safe account scams have very particular characteristics, customers  will often quickly  
consolidate all of their funds into one account and then quickly  transfer the total balance 
out, to a new payee, reducing their account balances to zero or almost  zero.  They do so in 
the belief that fraudsters  have access to their accounts, and they need to remove all of 
their money, as quickly as possible,  in order to safeguard  it. The activity that took place on 
Mr Fs account  had all the hallmarks of a classic  safe account scam and is exactly the type 
of suspicious account activity that TSB should be on the look-out for. 
And so Im persuaded  this payment  was unusual and out of character for Mr F, and the 
activity on his account had all the classic hallmarks of a classic safe account scam, and so 
I think TSB ought fairly  and reasonably to have made enquiries about the purpose of the 
payment before it processed it.
TSB has commented that it has an obligation  to debit its customers accounts  in line with its 
customers mandate and by allowing  the payment to leave the account here, it was simply 
following Mr Fs payment instruction. I accept there is a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. 
Ive also considered TSBs comments that, in this case its fraud detection  system  didnt 
identify this payment  as having high risk characteristics.  How TSB chooses to configure 
its fraud detection  systems is for it to decide.  But the question I need to answer  here is: 
should TSB have  fairly and reasonably done  more  in Mr Fs case  whether its fraud 
prevention systems detected the payment or not.
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have identified 
that Mr F was potentially at risk of financial harm. Im persuaded that as a matter  of good 
practice, TSB should  have made additional  checks,  and made enquiries as to the purpose of 
the payment before  processing it. Had it done so, I believe the scam would have been 
revealed and prevented.  Ill explain  why.
Mr F fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common  a safe account  scam. And its a 
type of scam Im satisfied TSB ought  to have  been aware of at the time. And so, Ive thought  
about what most likely  wouldve happened  had TSB contacted Mr F about the payment. 
Im satisfied Mr F wouldve told TSB he was transferring his money to a safe account  upon 
the instructions  of the TSB fraud  department  he wasnt given a cover-story by the 
scammers should TSB ask about  the reasons for the payment. At this point,  TSB couldve 
Ref: DRN08186534educated Mr F about this type of scam and its key characteristics.  It wouldve been  able to 
tell Mr F that the person  he had been speaking to did not work for TSB,  and that TSB would 
not ask one of its customers to transfer their money to a safe account.  Had TSB done  so, Im 
persuaded that the scam would have been  prevented and no loss occurred. 
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if TSB had asked some probing 
questions are reinforced by the fact that Mr F realised himself  that something wasnt  quite 
right within a couple of hours of the scam.  He says, and I accept that, reflecting on what  had 
just occurred and been discussed,  he started to entertain doubts. But by then it was too late 
 the funds had already left and were  almost immediately removed from the receiving 
account by the scammers (which meant TSB could  not, despite  efforts,  recover  any of Mr Fs 
funds). In other words, if the staff had carried out further or better questioning in line with a 
banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mr F would  have  become  aware of the scam in 
time and stopped the payment in its tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Mr F would not 
have lost £4,305. 
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness,  
I will say that, it would have made  no difference because the receiving banks records  show 
that the scammers withdrew all the money within two hours of the transfer,  i.e. before TSB 
had become aware of Mr Fs concerns. 
I have also considered whether Mr F should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear  that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the 
consequences of his actions. He thought he was helping to stop financial crime, not facilitate 
it. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, he was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in 
financial matters; Mr F was a layperson. 
TSB has highlighted  that there were warnings both on its website and on its online banking 
about this type of scam and that Mr F failed to take heed of these  warnings.  Its provided 
us with links to the warnings it says were visible at the time. But Mr F has no memory  of 
seeing any of these warnings. And even  if there  were warnings in place at the time, its 
clear they had no impact  on Mr F and this scam - Mr F still fell victim to it.
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr F for the 
loss he suffered without  any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for being  
deprived of the money he lost.  I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money  
from Mr F it would have  remained  in his current accounts, so interest should be at the 
originating account rates.  
 
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest  award  of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr F has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that his loss was 
ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster and it was an authorised  transaction,  but 
TSB could  ultimately  have  prevented  the payments.  
Mr Fs explained  hes felt stressed and that not knowing what was happening with his 
account has had a detrimental  effect on his health. He has highlighted that he is a 
pensioner and some of the money  he lost was from his pension.  Im satisfied some  of 
these feelings  of stress and worry wouldve been the case even if TSB had prevented him 
Ref: DRN08186535from losing  his money. This is because I believe Mr F would still have been worried  about 
falling victim to a scam in the future. But Im persuaded some of the emotional  impact and 
stress he has felt since couldve been  avoided. So, for these  reasons, I think  TSB should 
pay Mr F £200  in compensation. This is in addition to the £25 it has already paid for its 
delays.
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint 
about TSB Bank  plc  and I therefore  require the bank to:
refund  Mr F the £4,305 lost as part of the scam,
pay interest at the account rates from 17 October 2018  to the date of 
settlement*;
pay Mr F £200 for the material distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 December 2020.
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman
*If TSB Bank plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr F with the appropriate 
tax certificate so he might  submit a claim  to HMRC if applicable.
Ref: DRN0818653