K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
I know Mrs B has complained about  other  PPI policies.  So to be clear, Im now addressing  
the policy Mrs B took out with a Dorothy Perkins store card in 1996. The credit facility was 
provided by a high street  bank, but a company called Financial Insurance Company Limited 
is responsible for answering Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
The store card was taken  out in a store and obtained by filling  out an application  leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Mrs B says she doesnt remember  being told much about it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mrs B disagreed  and so its been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve  spoken  at length to the 
company involved  to gain an understanding of the processes that were  generally used. So 
we now know consumers  were asked to fill out an application which  was part of a wider 
leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included  in what  the 
applicant was given  to complete. 
I was sent the credit  agreement Mrs B filled out when  she took out the card and PPI. I can 
see there was a section  on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited  her to either tick - 
or leave  blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
Mrs B ticked  at this point so I think this suggests  that she did want PPI when she applied  for 
her card. Because  I also think  she would have  had access to the terms and conditions as 
Ive described above, I think  she consented  to the PPI cover when she signed at this point. I 
think shed have been equally free to not have  ticked the section asking for the PPI.
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Mrs B to decide for herself whether she wanted  the cover. I acknowledge 
FICL could  have set out the information about  the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but 
overall I do think Mrs B had access to enough information to allow  her to make an informed 
decision. 
Mrs B told us she had some sickness protection already  with her job, implying  she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Mrs B says she enjoyed. But these dont  necessarily  mean  the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ref: DRN03008442Ive checked that Mrs B was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some  of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive,  but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to 
work or until all the balance was returned to zero.  Life, injury  and hospitalisation cover was 
also included. These benefits wouldve been in addition to any other means  Mrs B had in 
place at the time.
So although  I cant say why Mrs B decided to select this cover when she applied for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been of use to her. I think this 
could explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Mrs Bs complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead,  what Ive seen makes me think Mrs B specifically selected the 
PPI and had access  nearby  to the information she needed about  the PPI policy  and its rules. 
And I dont  think theres evidence that any better  or more  information  wouldve changed 
how Mrs B acted. 
So Im afraid  I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0300844