K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Amtrust  Europe  Limited (Amtrust)  has declined  to provide 
any cover  for a claim  on their LABC New Home  Warranty   which  is underwritten  by 
Amtrust.
background
I issued a provisional decision in October  2019 explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
There are several businesses involved in this complaint who act on behalf  of Amtrust. 
For ease of reference Ill refer only to Amtrust in this decision, even when referring  to 
the actions of its agents/representatives.
There has been extensive background to this complaint  which I wont repeat in full 
detail here.  The key point is that Mr and Mrs B made a claim  to Amtrust about 
several defects they discovered with their new home in 2015. Amtrust has declined to 
cover the claim because it says the contract of insurance hadnt started at the time 
the defects were discovered.
Mr and Mrs B bought their property  from the property developer  in September  2015. 
At this stage the developer had been issued a cover note by Amtrust. Mr and Mrs B 
argue that cover  should have commenced  from this date. Theyve pointed out 
wording in the policy document which they say supports this position. The wording 
says:
The Building Control function will have to be undertaken by a Local Authority 
Building Control Inspector on behalf of the Local Authority. Subject to 
confirmation that
o a satisfactory final inspection has been  carried out by the Site 
Surveyor; and
o the Local Authority Building  Control  Inspector has confirmed that 
they are not aware of any circumstances that would restrict their ability 
to issue a Completion Certificate; 
then a Cover Note will be issued, if requested, for each Housing Unit 
confirming that cover under sections 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 (as applicable) is in 
effect.
Mr and Mrs B argue  that this wording states cover will be in effect when the cover  
note is issued, which it had been  when they discovered and reported the defects. 
Ref: DRN03803592Amtrust argues that cover doesnt  commence until the certificate  of insurance is 
issued, which wasnt until December 2015.  It says the wording on the cover note 
makes it clear that the cover note doesnt  mean  cover is in place. The wording on the 
cover note says: 
This cover  note confirms that:
1. A Site Audit Surveyor has carried out a satisfactory final inspection 
of the above Housing Unit. 
2. Where Building Control has been  carried out by a Local Authority 
Building Control Inspector the policy will not commence until formal  
confirmation has been received from the Local Authority Building 
Control Inspector  that they are not aware of any circumstances that 
would restrict their ability to issue a Completion Certificate. 
On the basis of the above LABC Warranty agrees to issue a Certificate of 
Insurance for the Housing  Unit. The Initial Certificate  previously  issued with 
the policy detailed  the sections of the policy that will apply for this Housing 
Unit. 
The Certificate of Insurance will be issued confirming cover  is in place when 
details of the sale price  and full postal address for the Housing Unit, is 
provided to LABC Warranty. Please note all quotation conditions  will need to 
have been met. This information should be provided prior to legal completion 
of the sale of the Housing Unit to the first purchaser.  Any limitation, 
amendment or exclusion  to the cover will be shown as an endorsement to the 
Certificate of Insurance. 
Cover will commence from the date shown on the Certificate  of Insurance, 
and in accordance  with the policy terms and conditions. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. She thought  that the 
wording in the policy document did indicate that cover should commence from the 
cover note. She said the ambiguity  this created should mean that Amtrust  should 
provide the relevant cover  the conciliation service  offered during years  0  2 of the 
policy.
Amtrust didnt agree.  It said it cannot put cover in place without all conditions  being 
met by the developer. Amtrust said it is common for the local authority to be 
considerably slow in producing their completion  certificate and that it is for the 
property developer to request/receive this, then present it to Amtrusts risk 
management surveyor for the certificate of approval  to be produced. It says only at 
this point can a certificate  of insurance  be issued  once all conditions  have been 
met. 
Amtrust feels  the issue lies with Mr and Mrs Bs conveyancing solicitor for not 
carrying out sufficient  due diligence to check that the warranty  cover  was in place 
before the sale went through.
Because no agreement has been reached  the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
Ref: DRN03803593my provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
While several  issues  have  been  raised  as part of this complaint, this provisional  
decision focuses only on the issue I consider  to be materially  relevant to the outcome 
of the complaint. But I have carefully  considered all of the evidence  and arguments  
from both sides.
The issue  that is crucial  for me to decide here is whether Amtrusts position that there 
was no cover in place is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy states:
Section 3.2
Defects Insurance
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder during  the Defects Insurance  
Period against  the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying any Defect in the 
Housing Unit for which  the Developer is responsible and which  is discovered 
and notified to the Developer during the Defects Insurance Period and which 
is notified to the Underwriter within 6 months  of the expiry of the Defects 
Insurance Period. 
And it defines the Defects Insurance Period as: 
Defects Insurance Period
The period  commencing  on the date specified in the Certificate of 
Insurance. 
The policy document also explains when a certificate of insurance  will be issued. It 
states:  
A Certificate of Insurance will be issued  in the name of the Policyholder  after 
issue of the Cover Note provided  that a Certificate  of Approval has been 
issued by the Site Audit Surveyor and, if applicable,  a Completion Certificate 
has been issued  by the Local Authority Building Control Inspector. The 
Certificate of Insurance should be filed with the Policy. 
Insurance is designed to transfer  risk from one party to another.  But risk isnt 
transferred until both parties are in agreement over all elements of the contract. In 
this case Amtrust did not accept the risk until it received the certificate of approval 
from the developer  and issued the certificate  of insurance. Mr and Mrs B discovered  
and reported the defects  before this date. So I think Amtrust is right to say that the 
defects arent covered,  because they were  reported  outside of the defects insurance 
period. 
Ref: DRN03803594However, in the particular  circumstances  of this case I also need  to consider Mr and 
Mrs Bs argument that Amtrusts policy wording led them  to reasonably  believe cover  
was in place. And whether that in turn means that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Amtrust to provide cover   despite  what Ive said above. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs point  that some of the information  in the 
policy document indicates that cover is in effect  when the cover note is issued. But I 
dont think that one sentence in isolation should  mean that Amtrust needs to provide 
cover. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Our investigator thought that the ambiguity in the particular  sentence  of the policy 
document should mean that our service sides with Mr and Mrs B. But I think its 
important to consider  all of the policy information  together, not just that one sentence  
in isolation. And as quoted above,  another section of the same policy document  is 
clear that cover starts  with a or the certificate of insurance, not the cover  note.  Its 
worth noting  that the cover note itself is also clear on this point and that it states the 
property unit shouldnt  be sold until the certificate of insurance has been issued. 
I dont think its reasonable to suggest that the one sentence which indicates  cover 
starts earlier should outweigh the remaining information in the policy  literature, 
especially where, in my view, the remaining information is more  specifically worded. 
Ultimately I think  it ought to have been  clear that the warranty  cover wasnt in place 
at the time Mr and Mrs Bs purchase was completed  or when the defects were 
discovered. Amtrust suggests  the issue rests with Mr and Mrs Bs conveyancing 
solicitor. Perhaps they may wish to discuss this with them or seek some independent 
advice on this point.  
Taking all of the available evidence into account  I think Mr and Mrs B discovered  the 
defects with their property before Amtrust was on risk. So I cant  fairly  say that its 
decision not to accept a claim for these defects is unfair or unreasonable. I 
appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for or expecting after 
receiving our investigators assessment. But I hope  that Ive made my reasoning 
clear.
I asked both sides to provide  any further evidence or information they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision.
Amtrust didnt have anything further it wanted  to add. But Mr and Mrs B provided  several  
detailed reasons why they didnt agree with my findings, along with some supporting 
evidence. In summary they said:
Our services initial assessment upheld their complaint, and this view was supported  
by a number of other ombudsmen
A cover note was in place before the defects  were discovered, and the sole purpose  
of a cover note in insurance is to evidence that cover is in place
The policy wording applicable at the time explicitly  stated  that on the issue  of a cover 
note that cover was in effect and therefore they were insured from the date the 
property was purchased
Ref: DRN03803595There was no justifiable reason for Amtrust  to delay commencing cover  beyond legal 
completion of the property as all the required information was available
Amtrust have changed all versions  of their new homes warranty wording so the 
discrepancy they have  complained about  no longer exists. This clearly demonstrates 
an acknowledgement that their document was mis-leading.
Not upholding  their complaint  would violate their rights for reasonable protection  and 
redress
Amtrust has acted unfairly,  unreasonably  and not in compliance  with the Consumer 
Code for Homebuilders.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B have  again raised several issues they want  me to consider. Ive thought  
carefully about all of the points they have  raised,  including the ones  I had already considered 
when reaching  my provisional decision.  But Ill not be providing  a specific  answer to every  
point, only the ones I consider to be materially relevant to the outcome of their complaint.
For ease of reference, Ill use sub-headings.
cover note
This was the primary issue I addressed in detail in my provisional decision. I explained that 
based on the weight of information provided  by Amtrust, I thought  it ought  to have been clear  
that cover  wasnt in place  until the certificate of insurance had been  issued.
Mr and Mrs B have  provided template letters from the Council for Mortgage Lenders,  which  
they say evidences that the warranty cover note is the requirement  to show cover is in place 
prior to legal  completion.  Ive considered this, but from what Ive seen  the document theyve 
provided says that New home warranty information, including the cover note, should be 
provided prior to completion. It doesnt state that the cover  note, in isolation, is sufficient.
Ive also had a look at the UK Finance Mortgage Lenders Handbook for England and 
Wales, on the Council for Mortgage Lenders Website. This handbook is the new name  for 
the CML Lenders Handbook. It doesnt appear that adherence to this handbook  is 
mandatory for all lenders.  But in any event, section 6.7.2 states:
Where the cover under a scheme  referred  to in clause 6.7.1 is not yet in place 
before you send us the certificate  of title, you must obtain a copy  of a new home 
warranty provider's  cover  note from the developer. The cover note must confirm that 
the property has received  a satisfactory  final inspection and that the new home 
warranty will be in place on or before legal completion.
Ref: DRN03803596This indicates that a cover  note would  be sufficient, for the purposes of conveyancers  acting 
on behalf of lenders, providing the cover note states that the warranty  will be in place prior to 
completion. Mr and Mrs Bs cover note does  not state this. It confirms  there are further 
requirements to be satisfied before the certificate  can be issued.  It also says that cover does 
not commence  until the certificate  is issued and that the property should not be sold until the 
certificate has been issued.
Mr and Mrs B have  also argued that in other  types  of insurance a cover  note is issued to 
confirm that cover is in place. I accept this is the case. But in their case,  Amtrust  issues the 
cover note to the developer to confirm  that the property represents a standard  risk for cover. 
But there are other conditions that need  to be fulfilled before  a certificate of insurance can be 
issued. And in my view,  the information in both the policy document and on the cover  note,  
indicates that the certificate of insurance marks the start of cover  provided by the policy.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that Amtrust has now removed  wording  in their new policy  
documents, which they believe shows it accepts  the version they had was mis-leading. I 
dont think its particularly  unusual for policy wording to adapt or change  over time. But from 
what Ive seen from the information provided by Mr and Mrs B and Amtrust, the same  
sentence they have  complained is mis-leading is present in both the version they sent me, 
and the earlier version Amtrust has provided. 
In any case, my decision on this aspect  of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint remains  unchanged.  I 
still think that if the time had been  taken  to review all of the policy information thoroughly, 
prior to completion, it would have been apparent that the warranty cover  wasnt  yet in place.
there was no reason  to delay issuing certificate  
Mr and Mrs B say there was no reason for Amtrust to delay issuing the certificate  of 
insurance after issuing  the cover note. But Amtrust  says the developer needed to provide all 
of the necessary information before it could issue the certificate.  This included sign-off from 
a building  control surveyor.
Amtrust has provided evidence that it was chasing  for confirmation from the building  control 
surveyor in November 2015. And it has shown  me internal  system  notes  confirming that this 
information wasnt received until 3 December  2015.  
Based on the available evidence, I cant fairly  conclude that it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Amtrust to delay issuing  the certificate of insurance  until it had all the information it required.
Amtrust has waived its rights to refuse cover
Mr and Mrs B feel that Amtrust has waived its rights to refuse cover by conciliating on some 
of the issues, after it advised them that the defects were discovered before their cover  had 
commenced.
From what  Ive seen Amtrust  made  a clear  distinction between  the items it agreed to 
conciliate on, and those it deemed to have been  discovered before the cover  commenced. In 
its email to Mr B on 17 August 2017 it said:
You have indicated that most of the issues were  evident as soon as you bought the 
property 1st September 2015.
Ref: DRN03803597The Defects Insurance Period runs from 4th December  2015 to 4th December 2017 as 
stated on your Certificate of Insurance,  a copy of which is attached..
 It would appear from the information you have provided that most  of the issues 
were discovered prior to commencement  of the Defects Insurance  Period,  and 
indeed prior to inception  of the Policy. We are therefore unable  to conciliate on these 
issues.
Please note that the two year Defects Insurance Period exists  for the benefit  of 
insurers, to provide them with an opportunity for the Developer to put things right via 
the conciliation service. However, the Developers duties and obligations to you 
under the contract of sale/purchase of your property are not affected  by this and, 
therefore, you may have  legal rights you can pursue against the developer, subject to 
the relevant limitation periods.
The issues  with the dropping of the floor in the utility  room, cracking in 2nd floor 
bathroom, damage to exterior  render and first floor temperature issues, we have 
contacted the Builder  and put them on notice to investigate  these  issues and replace 
or rectify any defect  in the Housing Unit which is due to a failure to comply  with a 
functional requirement  of the Technical  Manual. It is your Builders responsibility in 
the first instance.
So, Amtrust agreed to conciliate  on certain  issues, but it maintained  from the outset that 
some were  discovered outside of the period of cover.
Amtrust says the developer is responsible for any issues discovered in the first two years, so 
it will always  try to help the homeowners and ask the developer/builder  to correct issues 
informally. In Mr and Mrs Bs case, Amtrust says it couldnt have exercised any power over 
the developer  to do the works for the defects which were discovered outside of cover.  But it 
says its typical for it to try to persuade developers/builders to fix snagging issues not 
covered by the warranty. 
I appreciate that Amtrusts actions may have confused matters for Mr and Mrs B here, as it 
did get involved and ask the builder  to investigate the issues that they reported. But it only 
did this after it specifically  told them that the issues werent covered under the warranty  
because they were discovered  before  the cover was in effect.  So, I dont think  it would be fair 
to say that it waived  its rights to refuse cover by trying to help them resolve  their issues 
informally with the builder.  I say this because it was clear  from the outset that Amtrust didnt 
agree that the issues were covered by the warranty.
summary
Through the policy, Amtrust undertakes  to cover any defects that are discovered  during the 
defects insurance period. This period starts  when the certificate of insurance is issued. Until 
this point Amtrust has not accepted any risk associated with the policy. 
Having carefully considered all of the available evidence, Im satisfied that the issues 
complained about were  discovered outside  of the defects insurance period. So, I dont think  
Amtrust has acted unfairly or unreasonably  in refusing to cover  these issues.
Ref: DRN03803598my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020. 
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0380359