K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Uncle  Buck  Finance LLP gave him loans that werent  affordable.
background
Between October 2014 and May 2018  Mr O borrowed seven loans from Uncle Buck,  as 
follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Instalments Date repaid
1 7 Oct 2014 £100 1 15 Oct 2014
2 8 Jan 2015 £75 1 15 Jan 2015
3 19 Apr 2015 £500 3 15 Jul 2015
4 27 Jul 2015 £400 3 15 Oct 2015
5 31 Jan 2016 £250 3 15 Apr 2016
6 18 May 2016 £500 3 16 Jun 2016
7 26 May 2018 £500 6 14 Jun 2019
 
Mr O complains that Uncle  Buck  didnt  carry out sufficient checks  into the affordability of its 
loans to him. If it had, he says it wouldve seen that he was stuck in a cycle of payday 
borrowing and using  his money to fund gambling.
Uncle Buck  is content that it did undertake appropriate affordability checks before each loan 
and was satisfied  that its lending  was affordable  to Mr O.
Our adjudicator felt that Uncle Bucks  checks for all the loans were  proportionate given Mr 
Os borrowing pattern and taking into account  the information he gave and the credit checks.
Mr O doesnt agree.  He reiterates that, at the time he borrowed from Uncle  Buck, he had a 
significant number  of other loans from multiple lenders and, as a consequence,  wasnt  able 
to repay  these loans  sustainably  alongside his other commitments.  He says that he has seen 
other complaints upheld  with fewer loans and if Uncle Buck had challenged him it would 
have seen that the lending was unsustainable.
Because Mr O doesnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
O could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN06020622the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Uncle Buck  has told us that before  each  loan it asked Mr O for details of his monthly income 
and expenditure.  It also carried out a credit check on each occasion.
For the first four loans Mr O declared that his income was between £2800  and £3200 and his 
outgoings were  around £991. The repayments  on these loans were a small proportion  of Mr 
Os disposable income and appeared affordable on the figures he gave, There was nothing  
of concern in the credit  check that should  have alerted  Uncle Buck  to carry out further  
checks or verify what Mr O was saying about  his finances. 
There were significant  gaps between the first three loans  and so this wouldnt suggest that 
Mr O was reliant on short term credit  to meet his normal expenses or that he was rolling over 
his borrowing because  he couldnt  afford  the repayment. Mr Os borrowing had increased at 
the point of loan 4 and I think that if he had taken  loan 5 shortly after repaying then Uncle  
Buck mightve needed to do more.
Ref: DRN06020623Mr O asked for loan 5 six months  after loan 4 was repaid. I think it was reasonable for the 
lender to assume that Mr O was not reliant  on short term credit  and was using it for its 
intended purpose. So I think  the level of checking didnt need to increase for loan 5 and 
asking Mr O about his income and outgoings  and carrying out a credit check was enough.
Mr O repaid loan 5 and then there  was a gap of just over a month before he asked for loan 
6. Mr O repaid this early. There  was then a gap of over 2 years before Mr O asked for loan 7 
and so again I think it was reasonable for the lender to assume  that Mr O was managing his 
finances and was not reliant on short term credit.    
Looking at Mr Os pattern of borrowing I cant say that there was anything that should have 
alerted Uncle  Buck  to carry out more  checks.  Although the number of loans can be an 
indicator of difficulty, the frequency of the borrowing also has to be taken into account. Mr 
Os borrowing pattern appeared to fit with using  short term credit  for emergency expenses.
I dont doubt that Mr O was in difficulty and was not responsibly managing his finances but I 
cant say that this should have been  obvious  to the lender given what it knew  about Mr O. 
There was nothing to suggest further  checks were necessary. I can understand why Mr O 
thinks that other decisions are not consistent  but each case is different  and I can only look at 
the information I have.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0602062