K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC has not compensated  him properly  for his Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  policy, which Lloyds has acknowledged was mis-sold.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019  in which  I set out the background to this 
complaint and my initial findings. Ive attached a copy here because  this forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I explained why I was likely to uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint and I invited  both parties  to let me have  anything  they thought was relevant in 
response.
Mr R said he had nothing further  to add.
Lloyds said it accepted my provisional decision and it said it would  make  an offer of 
compensation.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im mindful that Lloyds says it accepts my provisional decision and is willing  to send 
Mr R an offer of compensation, for the sake of completeness and to provide Mr R with 
certainty, I feel in this particular case it is necessary to go ahead  and issue my final decision.
So as neither party has given me any new evidence to consider, I see no reason to change  
my mind   Ive reached  the same  conclusion as I set out in my provisional decision  and for 
the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and I direct Lloyds Bank  Plc to pay Mr R compensation  as I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN05631442copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC has not compensated him properly  for his Payment Protection  
Insurance (PPI) policy, which Lloyds has acknowledged was mis-sold.
background
Mr R originally brought his complaint to this service because Lloyds didnt  agree the PPI sold to him 
with a loan in December 1999 (which I shall refer to as Loan 3) was mis-sold.
I issued a provisional decision on that complaint and I decided to uphold  it - I thought the PPI was 
mis-sold. Following my provisional  decision Lloyds agreed to pay compensation to settle the 
complaint.  
Lloyds subsequently sent its offer of compensation to Mr R saying  it would  refund four premiums  of 
£8.50 plus some compensatory  interest at 8% simple per year. Mr R wasnt happy with this offer and 
asked us to look at it in more detail.
Our adjudicator said it was more likely the PPI ran for 12 months from January  to December 2000, so 
he asked Lloyds to increase  the compensation payment  to make up for the extra  payments. 
Mr R is still unhappy. He says the PPI ran for a much longer time. So hes asked for an ombudsman 
to consider the matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive into account whats relevant here in deciding  this case. 
Firstly I think  its necessary  here for me to refer back to and repeat some of what  I said in my 
provisional decision  about Mr Rs mis-sale  complaint,  because my findings and reasoning for 
upholding it speak to what I think needs to be done to put things right.
In my provisional decision I concluded that Mr Rs PPI was mis-sold - and I said I intended to direct 
Lloyds to pay Mr R compensation  on the basis of refunding the amount  he paid for the PPI each 
month together with simple interest at the rate of 8% a year for the time he was out of pocket  for each 
payment.
When Lloyds made its initial offer of compensation to Mr R having  agreed with my provisional 
decision, it worked  it out on the basis that Mr R made four monthly payments. 
I accept there is limited  information about Mr Rs PPI policy - although  the original loan application  
form is available. And the lack of documentation  about the PPI was one of the key reasons it was 
unclear to me how the policy came about.  As I said when  upholding the mis-sale  complaint,  Mr R had 
several loans with Lloyds  a total of 13 - yet only one (Loan  3) had PPI. 
There was no clear  evidence that Mr R actually  submitted a completed and signed  application form 
for the PPI  Lloyds internal processing  notes  record  an application being sent out to Mr R, but it did 
not record  its safe receipt. Despite this PPI was clearly added to Loan 3.
I thought, on balance, Mr Rs testimony that he didnt know hed taken  out the PPI and hadnt  agreed 
to take it out was persuasive, as it would be very unusual  to take out loans in the way he had and yet 
Ref: DRN05631443only take a policy for this one. There was nothing particularly noteworthy or significant  about  Loan 3 
for example.  And in any event there was no compelling  evidence to support the fact Mr R had 
consented to the PPI.
I also indicated in my provisional  decision  that I thought the PPI had started  when the loan was taken  
out in December 1999  and likely ended in 2007 when  the loan and mortgage account, to which it was 
related, closed as per Lloyds records.
When working out the compensation, Lloyds has used the limited data from the loan screenshots it 
has to work out how long it thinks Mr R paid for PPI. 
When there is limited or incomplete data, its fair to make reasonable assumptions about  how long a 
policy may have been running for. But looking  at all the screenshots and information  thats been 
provided, I dont think the assumptions Lloyds has made are fair. 
I still think, on balance it is more likely  than not the PPI ran from the start of the loan until the loan was 
redeemed and the account  closed, which seems to be in 2007. I shall explain why I believe this is the 
case.
It is accepted  the PPI was added to the loan account when it opened  in December  1999 and the cost 
was £8.50 each month.   
But when Lloyds sent its offer of compensation to Mr R, it said the assumed  start date of the PPI was 
9 January 2001 and the end date 9 April 2001. As Mr R began making repayments to Loan 3 in 
January 2000 this was clearly wrong.
After we asked Lloyds to clarify the period  and amount offered, it said it had made  an error and used 
the start and end dates for Mr Rs next loan (Loan  4) by mistake. It said it thought the premiums  
shouldve been from 09/01/2000 to 09/12/2000, so the number of premiums refunded should  have 
been eleven - not the four it had offered.  
Lloyds also said it had assumed that, as Loan 4 had no PPI shown on its system  records, it believed 
the policy  for Loan 3 ended by the time Loan 4 started in January 2001. It is this assumption Lloyds  
has made, which I do not agree with  I dont think there is any evidence to say this is a fair 
assumption. 
The loans Mr R took out did not form a chain. So Loan 4 did not pay off Loan 3 for example. The 13 
loans were all taken  out at different times. And in the main they all seem to run alongside each other. 
Just because Lloyds records show Loan 4 as having no PPI taken, this doesnt mean  that at the point 
Loan 4 started, there  was no PPI active on any of Mr Rs accounts. I think  this record shows that this 
particular individual sub-account (Loan 4) didnt  have PPI - indeed  this is what  Lloyds said in its recent 
correspondence with us. 
Screenshot evidence shows that Loans 2 and 4 were  both redeemed in 2001.  But the information also 
indicates that Loan 3 had a balance carried  forward in December  2001. 
And a monthly loan payment  was made in January 2002, so this loan continued. Another screenshot  
shows the redemption  date as 8 January 2007.
This information all adds  to the assumption that Loan 3 was totally  independent from Loans 2 and 4. 
As I found in my provisional decision upholding the mis-sale complaint, it was more likely than not that 
Mr R didnt consent  and know he had taken  out the PPI, so I dont think it is fair and reasonable to 
assume he would have  cancelled the policy. He wouldnt cancel something he didnt know he had. So 
I think  the PPI with Loan  3 would most likely  not have been  cancelled before the loan amount  was 
redeemed and the account  closed. The screenshots show this to be 8 January 2007.
Ref: DRN05631444what Lloyds should do to put things  right
Overall and after careful consideration of this matter, I think that Mr Rs PPI most likely  ran from 9 
January 2000 to 8 January 2007. So to put things right Lloyds should  calculate  the premiums  paid 
during this period  with 8% simple interest  added for the time Mr R was out of pocket.
I understand Lloyds has already refunded the premiums  and paid 8% interest for the eleven  
premiums it eventually said were paid. So the amount already paid can be deducted from the final 
calculation of the compensation for the whole  period I have indicated above.
Its clear from what  has happened that Lloyds has made  some errors  it used the totally  wrong period 
when sending  out the original offer letter  to Mr R. And I dont think  it has followed through the logic of 
my provisional  decision  to uphold  the mis-sale complaint (which it accepted)  when calculating the 
compensation and making assumptions  about  long Mr Rs PPI likely  ran for. Its clear to me from Mr 
Rs correspondence that this has caused him some additional trouble and upset, so I intend to direct 
Lloyds to pay Mr R an additional £100 in recognition of this. 
 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, Ive provisionally decided that Lloyds  Bank PLC has not made  fair 
assumptions in compensating Mr R for his mis-sold PPI, resulting in him being under  compensated.  
So to put things right, I intend to direct Lloyds Bank PLC to compensate him in line with how Ive set 
out above.  I also intend  to direct Lloyds  Bank PLC to pay Mr R an additional  £100 in recognition of the 
trouble and upset this matter  has caused  him.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0563144