K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains, on behalf of the estate of Mrs J, that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC repeatedly  
failed to send  accurate  information about his late mothers holdings,  including  supplying the 
wrong figures. It has also demanded irrelevant docum entat ion, accuse d him of sending the 
wrong forms, failed to supply key documentation  during  a prolo nged share transfer to a new 
platform and repeatedly  failed to supply the necessary figures to the familys accountant or 
HMRC.
background 
Mr J also said that the delay in submi tting a key form to HMRC - to obtain probat e - caused  
him a great deal of worry and additi onal work including  writing numer ous letters,  sendin g 
emai ls, spend ing hours on the phone, collating  the information to prove  Barclays  error s, 
trave ling many miles to reconcile his late mothers accou nts and incur ring additional 
accoun tants fees to correct Barclays errors.
Barclays upheld the complaint, acknowledging it had:
Sent incorrect information about  Mrs J account
Delayed transferring  the accounts  to the new provider
Sent out inaccurate  tax reporting  information
Failed to return  Mr Js calls
Been  responsible for Mr J having to contact its Bereavement  Centre  for clarity and 
having to explain everything each time he called
Caused upset  to Mr J at the way the building security dealt with his visit to the 
business offices
Not handled  his complaint appropriately
As a result it offered Mr J £1,250 in settlement of his complaint.
Mr J explained that some information  was still outstanding. He also detailed the expenses 
hed incurred, including posta ge, printing, travelin g, additiona l fees and the costs arising 
from not being able to sell his mothers house  earlier.
An adjudicator at this service  felt stated that Mr J would have incurred a proportion of the 
expenses outlined in the normal course of dealing with an estate, and acknowledged that it 
can often take some  time for probate to be granted. 
She said that Mr J was acting for his late mother as an executor rather than in a professional 
capacity and therefore she could not agree  that he should receive an hourly rate payment for 
dealing with the estate.
She recommended Barclays increase its offer to £2,000  which it agreed to. 
Mr J did not agree, saying  he should  receive  a minimum  of £5,000 for the considerable 
delays, costs and inconvenience. Specifically, he said:
The sale of his mothers  house  would have gone  ahead in early  2018 but for 
Barclays failures re obtaining Probate
This four month delay  resulted in various  additional household costs,  energy bills, 
insurance etc. which hed already detailed in a letter to Barclays
Ref: DRN00168072He accepted that acting as Executor to obtain  Probate was an unpaid role but it was 
Barclays numerous errors that meant  he had to spend around  150 hours  dealing  
with this issue
If he had employed professionals to deal with Probate the cost would have far 
exceeded the sum he was looking for in compensation for this
Due to a different  series of errors, he was unaware for five months what  had 
happened to his mothers share  portfolio of more than £250,000
These shares fell considerably in value  in early 2018
If Barclays refuses to increase its offer to £5,000 he will take the matter to court
This is a matter of principle, not financial compensation, and he intends  to donate the 
entire sum to charity 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Barclays made repeated  errors over a prolonged period of time, and 
that these errors resulted in Mr J having to devote considerable additional time to sort out his 
mothers finances including obtaining probate. Nor is it disputed that he incurred a range of 
unnecessary expenses over this time or that the whole experience would have caused him 
very significant trouble and upset.
It is in recognition of all these factors that the adjudicator recommended that Barclays  
increase its offer to £2,000, and it agreed  to this. The only issue I have therefore considered 
is whether this new offer is broadly fair and reasonable or whether Barclays should  pay more  
than this, such as the £5,000 Mr J is now seeking.
Id firstly  like to reiterate what the adjudicator said about the often time-consuming and 
lengthy business of obtaining  Probate. I dont dispute that Barclays  made mistakes but I 
dont think things would necessarily have gone as quickly as Mr J implies even if it had 
provided the correct  information and documentation within  its promised timescales.
I have also not seen sufficient evidence to safely say that Mr J would not have  incurred at 
least some  of the expenses he detailed in maintaining his mothers  house for at least some  
of the four months  he refers to. In particular, he has not provided evidence to demonstrate  
that the house sale would definitely have gone  ahead within the 12 week period. House 
sales can be delayed or fall through for a myriad of reasons so I am unable to fairly  conclude 
that Barclays was wholly  responsible for what Mr J said occurred.
Similarly, I dont  believe  that Mr J has demonstrated  that all the car journeys he listed  were  
essential and/or a direct result of Barclays  mistakes. Obtaining documents  from his mothers  
house may well have been necessary even  if things had gone  smoothly.
Crucially, this service does not compensate  complainants for the time they spend dealing 
with a business mistakes  or in bringing a complaint to that business  or this service  in the 
way Mr J suggests we should. I do not believe it is possible to assess  the precise number  of 
hours involved nor do I think this is our role. We also do not compensate  complainants with 
reference to an hourly  professional rate of pay.
Instead, we take the view that a certain amount of time may well be needed  in pursuing 
problems and, if necessary, making  a complaint and following this up. But where  a customer 
Ref: DRN00168073has been forced to devote an unreasonable amount of time and effort  to try and to sort out 
problems which have  arisen due to a business failure we will award  some  compensation for 
this. Our broad approach  is set out on line, with numerous examples, and I have assessed 
this complaint within that framework.
We will also compensate customers for any clearly identified and documented costs they 
made as a direct result of a business mistakes  i.e. ones which necessarily arose from the 
error/s in question.
Given all the above I do not intend to go through all Mr Js list of expenses,  although I have 
read and considered them. Instead, I have considered  what seems broadly fair and 
reasonable both in terms of the likely necessary expenses he incurred and the undoubted 
trouble and upset  he experienced.
I think a sum of £1,000 for each these feels about right.  I therefore  believe the figure of 
£2,000 in total, which the adjudicator proposed, is not unreasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr J compensation  of 
£2,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs J, to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0016807