K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Black Horse Limited  (Black  Horse) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a loan in 2006.  
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said I was minded  to uphold the 
complaint. I asked the parties to comment on my proposed findings. 
Black Horse  did not respond. Mr C sent a number of emails  in response.  He said that he 
believed Black Horse had deliberately delayed his case, which had caused him stress and 
anguish. He also said that by denying the PPI policy had been sold face to face,  
Black Horse  had been made out to be a liar which had caused him further distress. He 
sought further compensation to recognise  that.  
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr Cs strength  of feeling, Im afraid this is not a case  in which  further 
compensation would be appropriate. The evidence before me does not in any way suggest  
Black Horse  has acted malevolently  to deny his complaint in the way Mr C claimed. 
Moreover, Black Horse was unclear  about how the PPI was sold and treated  the matter  as a 
telephone sale.  It did not doubt Mr Cs integrity  or suggest that in any way that he lied. 
I have carefully considered Mr Cs additional  representations. But for the reasons set out 
above, I see no reason  to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. So I uphold the 
complaint to the extent that PPI was mis-sold and Black Horse will need to take action to put 
things right for Mr C. 
putting things right 
Mr C borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should  have  been.  
So, Black Horse should:
Work  out and refund the difference between the amount Mr C paid towards the loan 
and what he would  have  paid without PPI; 
Ref: DRN01682292Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr C paid from when he paid it until the 
refund date. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Black  Horse can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  Black Horse can also deduct  what  
it has already refunded to Mr C in respect of commission from the amount it now 
owes. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Black Horse  to take off tax from this interest. Black Horse 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Black Horse Limited  and require it to comply with the above 
putting things  right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020. 
 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr C complains that Black Horse Limited  (Black Horse)  mis-sold  payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a loan in 2006.  
Ref: DRN01682293background
The PPI policy that Mr C bought was a single  premium  policy. That means  he had to borrow extra  on 
top of his loan to pay for the PPI. And he also had to pay interest on the extra  he borrowed. The cost 
of the PPI premium  was £450.94. When interest was added, the total cost of the cover was £679.20. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold.  She thought  the offer Black Horse had made 
to refund some of the commission it received from Mr Cs PPI premium was a fair way to settle the 
complaint. Mr C disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case .  
As things stand, Im proposing to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below.  
Mr C told us that he bought this PPI policy during a meeting between the parties. 
Black Horse says the cover  was probably sold over the telephone. Looking at the documents that are 
available from the time, I think  the sale probably  took place during a face to face meeting as Mr C 
recalls. I say this because I can see that the loan agreement and the demands  and needs 
questionnaire were  signed  on the same day by both Mr C and 
Black Horse. If the cover was sold on the telephone, I would expect  the documents  to have been 
signed on different dates.  
I cant  know  what was said during the meeting between the parties. So to help me decide whats likely  
to have happened,  Ive looked at what Mr C told us about it. And Ive also considered the documents  
that are available from that time.  
Black Horse told us that it advised Mr C to buy this cover. Looking at the demands and needs  
questionnaire, I think thats probably right. As Black Horse made a personal recommendation to Mr C, 
it had to make sure the cover was suitable  for his needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable, 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also considered what Mr C told us about  
his personal  circumstances  at that time.  
As I said above, Mr C bought a single premium policy. From the terms and conditions, I can see that if 
he cancelled the policy early, he wouldnt have received a pro rata refund. By that I mean  that if he 
cancelled the PPI policy half way through, he wouldnt have received  half of his money  back.  I think  
this is a significant  term of the policy that Black Horse should have pointed  out to Mr C.  Looking at 
the paperwork, I dont think the nature of that refund would have been clear  to Mr C. And so it follows 
that I dont  think the person  selling PPI to Mr C would have made sure he was aware of that term. 
Mr C has been adamant throughout his complaint that when  he bought this cover, he was having  
financial difficulties. He said he made this clear to Black Horse at the time and the person  selling the 
PPI to him knew he was desperate for the loan.  I think  its likely  that Mr C probably did have financial  
difficulties and I can see that he ran into trouble in paying back this loan. Based on the evidence 
before me, I think Mr Cs circumstances  suggested  he probably needed  flexibility  to reorganise  his 
finances and so taking out a policy such as this was not right for him. 
In these circumstances, I dont think a single premium policy was a suitable recommendation. And if 
Black Horse had pointed the unsuitable nature  of this cover out to Mr C, I dont think hed have bought 
a PPI policy. 
As things stand, Im intending to uphold  the complaint and Black Horse will need to take action to put 
things right for Mr C. 
Ref: DRN01682294putting things  right 
Mr C borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been.  
So, Black  Horse should:
Work out and refund  the difference between the amount Mr C paid towards the loan and what 
he would have paid without PPI; 
Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Mr C paid from when he paid it until the refund date. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr C made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Black Horse can take off what he got 
for the claim  from the amount it owes him.  Black Horse can also deduct  what  it has already 
refunded to Mr C in respect of commission  from the amount it now owes. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Black  Horse to take off tax from this interest.  Black Horse must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and require  Black Horse Limited to comply  with the above  
putting things right section. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 29 
November 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0168229