K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Ms S says that 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that the PPI was initially sold during a phone call and Ive also seen some  
paperwork that Ms S has then signed.  Ive kept this in mind  when coming to my decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd made it clear that Ms S didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not 
remember this now.
I say this because  although a call recording is no longer available,  Ive seen a sales  
script that Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd says their adviser would have followed at the 
time of sale.  
This sales script is basically a series of prompts built into the computer programme 
that Glasgow  Credit Union Ltd says their advisers used for loan applications. In my 
opinion, if this sales script was followed, I think that the adviser would have 
presented PPI as optional  before  getting consent  to taking  out PPI.
But Ive also considered a copy of Ms Ks demands  and needs  statements. On this 
document its stated;  We recommend that you take out our Accident,  Sickness  and 
Unemployment Insurance. At another point on this document it states  During our 
discussion you indicated your acceptance of our recommendation of Accident, 
Sickness and unemployment  Insurance. Please Sign and date below to confirm this 
acceptance.
Ms S has then signed at the bottom  of the document. So I think  that she chose to 
take PPI understanding that she had a choice. Ive also noted that Ms S has also 
signed a separate loan application document and underneath a series of five 
statements that includes; I declare that I have  been fully advised  about the benefits 
of sickness and accident insurance   please refer to demand and needs summary for 
details. 
I appreciate what Ms S has said about  PPI not being  discussed or explained, but I 
think that she would reasonably have  questioned  what she was signing for if she was 
unsure at the point of sale. Its a possibility  that given the time thats  passed,  Ms S 
may not recall everything clearly now.  
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd recommended the PPI to Ms S so it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,      
Ref: DRN02213512I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Glasgow Credit Union Ltd gave Ms S about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said - including what  shes  said about  the Glasgow 
Credit Union Ltd staff not being  trained properly. Whilst  it would be inappropriate for me to 
comment on this, what I can say is, regardless of what training staff received, I dont think  in 
this case that Ms S has lost out and I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ive also noted  what Ms S has said about the PPI duplicating cover she already had. But 
after six months Ms Ss sick pay would have decreased to half pay. The PPI could have  paid 
out in addition to and for longer than  up to 24 months for an accident and sickness  claim. 
In addition, having this policy would have  allowed  Ms S the option of using her existing sick 
pay for other  living expenses that she may have  had. 
Ms S also hasnt indicated  that she had any other means of making her repayments  if she 
was made  unemployed and this policy could have paid out for up to up to 12 months  for an 
unemployment claim.
Whilst Ive kept in mind  what  Ms Ss representative has said about Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd 
being a non for profit organisation, I still dont think that this policy  was mis-sold and in 
fairness to Ms S Ive applied our usual approach when  coming  to my decision.
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Ms S paid on her policy   and whether Glasgow 
Credit Union Ltd treated her unfairly. 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has told us that the commission for Ms Ss policy was less than 
half of what she paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has 
been working this out and based on what weve seen it looks  like its right  Ms Ss 
commission was less than half the cost of the policy. As thats  the case, I dont think  it 
needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont think Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd treated 
her unfairly. This means it doesnt need  to pay Ms S back  any of the commission  she paid 
for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Ref: DRN02213513Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0221351