K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that First Data Europe Limited  (trading as First Data  Merchant Solutions) 
provided poor customer service when  it set up and then terminated  his business account.
background
Mr S applied to First Data for merchant processing services. He says he experienced delays  
and that he was only initially able to settle  payments in sterling. He was unhappy then to be 
told his account  was being terminated having  been  authorised twice.  He does not think that 
the representative he dealt with had a good understanding of the process.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  be upheld in part. First Data had not 
responded either to Mr S or to this service  about  the part of the complaint relating to the poor 
customer service  and delays. She accepted what Mr S said and recommended he be paid 
£200 compensation. She said though that First Data had been entitled to terminate the 
agreement.
Mr S accepted the recommendation. First Data still did not respond and so the complaint 
was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont know why First Data has not responded to the complaint about  customer service and 
to the adjudicators view about this. It has had a reasonable opportunity to do so.
Ive reviewed the information that is available. I can see that the application form for the 
agreement was dated 27 January 2017. An exchange of emails with the representative says 
that the service  was available  by 14 February 2017.  But on 16 February 2017 Mr S raised 
the issue about only being able to receive  funds  in sterling. On 22 February 2017 he was 
told that the account had been  declined and on 1 March 2017 he received a termination 
letter. He says in his complaint form that the representative did not seem to understand the 
authorisation process or the nature of his business  structure.
Like the adjudicator  I accept at face value  what Mr S says and this is consistent with what 
Ive seen. First Data  has decided not to challenge this and I find it provided poor customer 
service. I agree  though that it was able to use its discretion to decide  to terminate the 
account. However, it does  seem  that this reflected incomplete due diligence  on its part in the 
first place. 
Ive taken into account our published guidelines about trouble and upset and formed my own 
view of what is reasonable. I consider the amount of £200  already recommended is 
appropriate here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require First Data Europe  Limited  (trading as 
First Data Merchant Solutions)  to pay Mr S £200.
Ref: DRN00273902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0027390