K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont allow him to make payments towards 
his balance using  a credit  card. 
background
Mr M holds  credit cards with Capital One and other providers. He tried to make a payment 
towards the balance  of one of his Capital One cards using another credit card. Capital One 
said it couldnt accept  payments  from credit cards and asked Mr M to make a debit card 
payment. It said it doesnt accept credit card payments  for accounts which  are up to date,  
and will only allow this if a customer has fallen behind with their payments. 
Mr M told Capital  One that he was unable to make a debit card payment and said using one 
of his other credit cards was his only option.  Capital One asked Mr M if he was in financial 
difficulty  he said that he wasnt.  
Capital One said Mr M could consider making  a balance transfer from the Capital  One card 
to another credit  card, or it said he could withdraw  cash from one of his other  credit  cards 
and deposit it into his bank account to make a payment. Mr M said these options were  
unsuitable as he didnt want to pay fees for a balance  transfer  or withdrawing cash.
Mr M said he felt his only option was to wait until one day after his payment was due, and 
then call Capital One to make a payment  by credit card. Capital One said it would be able to 
accept a credit card payment once the payment was overdue. However it also said a £12 
late payment charge  could be applied if the payment  wasnt made on time. 
Mr M complained. Capital One said its policy is not to accept credit card payments from 
customers who are not in arrears, as a credit card payment wont reduce their overall debt. It 
said Mr M wasnt behind with payments at the time he tried to make a credit card payment, 
so it said it was right to refuse.  
Mr M said he thinks Capital Ones policy is unfair. He said if Capital  One will allow  a balance 
transfer to another credit  card, he doesnt understand why it wont allow him to make 
a payment by credit  card. He views this as being the same. Mr M has said he was unaware 
of the terms and conditions of his credit card. He would like his Capital One card closed and 
the balance written off.
Unhappy with Capital  Ones response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened  and said that Capital  One had done 
nothing wrong. Mr M disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision. 
Ref: DRN04897282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I must make clear the role of the ombudsman service. Im aware that Mr M would like 
me to say that Capital One should  change its policy on accepting credit  card payments. 
However, our role is to resolve individual disputes between  consumers  and businesses  and 
to put things right if something has gone  wrong. We dont regulate financial businesses   
thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Capital Ones terms and conditions state  that customers  can make  a balance transfer to 
another credit card, but any attempt to make  a balance transfer in any other  way will be 
treated as invalid. Because of this, I cant agree that Capital One has done anything  wrong,  
or that its treated Mr M unfairly. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Mr M feels strongly that Capital One should  have  allowed him to pay by credit card because  
he said that was his only option.  He said he cant understand why Capital  One will allow 
a balance transfer but wont allow payments by credit card. He thinks  Capital  One is refusing 
payments by credit card so it can charge more fees. I dont think  thats  the case. 
Most lenders wont allow a credit card balance to be paid with another  credit  card.  Lenders 
have a duty to ensure theyre lending responsibly, and its up to each  individual lender to 
decide how this applies to their business. And, within  reason, to set their policies in the way 
they see fit.
If a consumer holds  multiple credit  cards and uses each card to pay the balance of another 
instead of paying with their own money  the overall  amount of debt they owe wont go 
down. Each  card provider  would likely  be adding interest which  would increase the overall  
debt, and this could lead to financial difficulties  for the consumer. Paying one credit card with 
another is also likely to be an indication that the consumer may already  be in financial  
difficulty.
Making balance  transfers  is viewed as a better solution for managing  debt, as it can mean 
the consumer  will only pay one set of interest and charges, and the payments they make 
with their own money will be reducing  the overall amount they owe.  
Im satisfied Capital One was entitled to refuse to accept a credit card payment from Mr M, 
as this was in line with the card terms he received and agreed to. I think Capital One 
responded fairly in asking Mr M if he was in financial difficulties. And by providing information  
about other options for payment as well as advising what would happen if a payment wasnt 
made on time. 
Ref: DRN04897283If Mr M would like to close his account he should contact Capital One about  this. But he 
would need to pay his balance before the account can be closed. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0489728