K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited (Scottish  Widows) cant 
tell him the monetary  value of the annual management charge on his investments. 
background
Mr Es complaint is about the information Scottish Widows have given him on the 
management charges  applied  to his account.  He complains  that the charges are shown as a 
percentage, and Scottish Widows wont tell him their monetary value. Mr E says that other  
providers are able to give him the monetary value  of their charges, but Scottish Widows are 
hiding it from him.
Scottish Widows  said they were unable to provide  the information Mr E requested because 
of the way in which  their charges are calculated.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and thought Scottish  Widows had treated him 
fairly. Mr E disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information Scottish  Widows  provided to Mr E about  his investments. 
Amongst other things, it showed  the value of each fund and the percentage annual 
management charges.  
Scottish Widows  told Mr E they were  unable to tell him the monetary amount hed paid 
through his annual management charges over the previous year. They  said their annual  
charges were integrated into the unit prices  and a proportion deducted on a daily basis. As 
the value of Mr Es funds  fluctuated daily, so too would the daily charge deducted. 
Scottish Widows  have  said the monetary amount deducted each day isnt available from 
their systems and would  need to be calculated manually. Theyve said they dont offer to 
calculate this for their customers  because of the time it would take. In response  to a request 
from our investigator,  Scottish Widows have provided for Mr E a sample of the calculations 
over a three  day period.
I appreciate that Mr E would like to know the monetary value of the annual management 
charge, and that he feels strongly about  this. But the ombudsman  service isnt the regulator. 
We cant tell a business what information  they should report  to their customers.  
However, Ive looked at whether Scottish  Widows have  given  Mr E clear  enough  information  
about the charges on his account. And I think the statements sent to Mr E provide him with 
sufficiently clear information about the annual management charge. They  also include the 
same level of information that Scottish Widows would provide to their other  customers.
I accept that Scottish  Widows dont provide the information about  charges in the format that 
Mr E would like. But I cant say Scottish Widows  have failed to do what they should,  or 
treated Mr E unfairly. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to tell them  to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN02681922Ive looked at the information Mr E says other  providers have sent him about their charges 
and the annual performance  of his investments. But this doesnt change  my decision  about 
whether Scottish  Widows have done anything wrong. So I wont  be upholding Mr Es 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint 
against Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers  Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0268192