K820x#14complaint
Mr K, as an executor, complains on behalf  of his late mothers  (Mrs Ks) estate.   
Hes unhappy that the payment on Mrs Ks life insurance policy by Phoenix  Life Limited (the 
business) doesnt  include  payment for the 433 investment  trust units,  that he says is part of 
the policy. 
background
The business hasnt  upheld the complaint. In summary,  it says:
The policy was taken  out by Mrs K in May 1968, with a £916 sum assured and a £5 
monthly premium, with participation in the Additional Voluntary Security  Programme  
(AVSP) fund. 
The policy was made paid up in October  1971, after which no premiums  were paid. 
The policy endorsement confirms  two parts to the policy:  a reduced life assurance of 
£97 and 433 units allocated in the AVSP  fund.
Due to the various changes in companies  that have administered the policy over the 
years it now has limited  records.  
Theres no evidence of annual  statements  issued or of any units  held for this policy 
after 31 December 1971. If there  were  units on the policy,  statements would  have 
continued to be sent to Mrs K.  
When Mrs K was notified about the change in businesses over the years, she 
wouldve also been given  an update  on the state of her units,  if they still existed. But 
she has no record of any statement updates. 
Its sorry for the time taken to deal with the complaint  and offered £200  compensation 
for this.  
Its grateful to Mr K for providing  copies of additional documentation that he had 
available however they dont take matters  further.  
Unhappy with the decision, Mr K referred  the complaint to our service. In summary, he says:  
Since the inception  of the policy in 1968  notwithstanding the numerous changes to 
the business  Mrs K has generally kept hold of any documentation  shes received 
from the business but has no record of the units being paid. This would suggest she 
wasnt given any. 
The cessation of the statements coincides with the policy being made paid up which 
suggests this was an administrative error.  
The absence of proof that the 433 units had been paid out suggests that they havent  
been paid.  
The burden of proof  lies with the business.  
 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
It seems  to her that the complaint is based on neither  party having any conclusive 
evidence of any payment  (or non-payment) of the proceeds of the units. 
The business has demonstrated that similar  policies  taken  out at similar  times  were  
still providing statements. Those  polices that had been  surrendered  no longer 
received statements.  
Ref: DRN08432532Mrs K seemed to retain all her information  connected to the policy. Its reasonable to 
assume that if she received these documents she wouldve retained this information.
Had Mrs K surrendered the investment between 1972 and 1977,  as suggested by the 
business, its likely she wouldve retained documentation  to demonstrate this. 
But despite all this  and considering whether  itd be fair to recommend that the 
business pay the settlement for the unit trusts  in the absence of any records of 
units after 1971 it wouldnt be fair. 
Given the communication  shes received  from the business, its likely the business 
wouldve retained information if the units still existed. 
The £200 compensation paid by the business is overall fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Mr K disagrees with the investigators conclusion. In summary, she says:
Financial companies have a legal, moral  and professional duty to retain information. 
To suggest a settlement has been  made  because the information  isnt available  is 
beyond belief.
Mrs K shouldve  continued to receive statements but she didnt. The policy  was made  
paid up just as the business was transferring to another  business.  With no premiums  
being paid there was no trigger to cause a statement to be produced.  
If something doesnt exist it cant be located. 
He hasnt been shown the sample of policies looked at by the business. He suspects  
that these policies had remittance that continued in 1972 and beyond. 
Why does the business suggest the units couldve been  surrendered  between  1972 
and 1977 in particular? If this were correct  based on what the investigator says there 
would be statements that exist. No further  endorsement was made, and it wouldve 
been had anything changed.  
Payment of death benefit and communication of regulatory letters  merely shows  that 
the business had a copy of the policy document. 
The absence of documents shouldnt  be proof  of settlement. 
All aspects  of the policy should be paid in full. Failures  by the business shouldnt be a 
reason to punch the consumer. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr K says, Im unable to safely  
say that the business has done anything wrong by not paying out on 433 units.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ks strength of feeling about  this matter. 
Ref: DRN08432533He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr K and the business,  and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened.   
Although the paper  records inherited by the business confirm the endorsement  in 1971 when 
the policy was made  paid,  it doesnt  mean  almost 40 years  on  that the two elements  are 
still in force today.  
Financial businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely.  Most businesses arent 
generally required to retain information  any longer than around six years  unless theres  a 
specific reason. 
I agree  with Mr K that the absence of the relevant  documentation isnt proof that that the 
units have been  surrendered  I agree that neither he nor the business can produce what 
doesnt exist  but Im not persuaded  thats whats happened here. Its not simply the 
absence of statements  that leads me to think,  on balance,  that the units are more likely (than 
not) to have been surrendered. 
I appreciate that Mrs K lived at the same address until her death and generally held on to 
documentation that she was given or received. I note Mr K says that she didnt have any 
statements relating  to the units which I think is probably correct.  
Whilst its possible that documents can be misplaced or go missing, I think its unlikely that 
Mrs K was ever sent any statements or information  relating  to the units after 1971, as I think 
the units were most likely to have  been  surrendered by then. 
Im not sure why the business  might  think the units were surrendered  between  1972 and 
1977, I note it doesnt  know this, but like me it thinks they were likely to have been  
surrendered. 
I understand that theres no evidence of annual statements issued or of any units held for 
this policy  after December  1971.  Whilst its possible that its a big coincidence given that the 
policy was made paid in October  1971, Im not persuaded that it is. I note that if the units  
remained on the policy, Mrs K wouldve continued  to receive annual statements to confirm  
any change to the value of the units, but she didnt receive anything from this point onwards. 
Therefore, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think  its more likely than not that 
the units were surrendered by then.
I note that Mrs K received information confirming  the changes  to the businesses 
administering the policy including in 1986, 1987, 1990 and 1993. I understand that if the 
policy still contained units, Mrs K wouldve been updated about the value of the units  at that 
Ref: DRN08432534point, but she wasnt - at any of the four changes  which  would support the conclusion that, 
on balance, the units were no longer available.   
So, having  concluded that on balance no units were  attached to the life policy,  Im unable to 
safely say that the business is wrong  to only pay the £97 for the life insurance part of the 
policy and nothing further.  
Im satisfied that the business has conducted  a reasonably thorough  search. 
I think the £200 compensation paid for the time taken to deal with the complaint is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr K will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0843253