K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about the poor service  he got from Acromas Insurance  Company Limited 
when he made claims on his motor breakdown repair  policy.
background 
In September  2017 Mr A called  out a breakdown technician for help when a warning light 
appeared on the car he was driving at the time (car A). He did so under the breakdown cover 
he had through  his bank account.  He says the technician said everything was fine and 
switched the warning light off. Mr A says later that month an engineer  was carrying  out other 
work on car A. He noted that a pipe to the air pump needed reconnecting, and fixed  it. 
In November 2017, Mr A took out cover  for car A on the separate  motor  breakdown  policy he 
had with Acromas. Up to that point,  two other cars he had were covered on that policy.  
Mr A says that in January  2018 a warning light appeared again  and car A started to shake. 
He called for help and the technician who attended  said there was a fault with the secondary  
air injection pump. Mr A says when he later had the fault repaired at a garage, Acromas  
wouldnt pay for it, as it said the fault was pre-existing. Mr A says that isnt right, as car A had 
been driven over 3,000 miles since the warning  light first appeared in September 2017. So 
he thinks Acromas  should  refund the cost of the repair  to car As pump.  
Mr A made a further claim on the policy in June 2018 when the cars constant pressure valve  
(CPV) needed replacing. He took the car to garage B. It said the work would take four to 
five hours.  Acromas checked  with a dealership (garage H). It said the manufacturers set 
time for that repair  was an hour and a quarter. Mr A contacted another dealership
(garage S). It said it would take over four hours  to fit a CPV to Mr As car. Mr A says as 
Acromas only paid £98 towards the work  - which cost £274 - hes out of pocket. 
Acromas says its technician carried out a temporary  repair to the secondary air injection  
pump in September 2017, so Mr A should have gone to a garage to have the fault repaired 
permanently. Another of its technicians carried out the same  temporary  repair in 
January 2018.  Acromas  says the fault was pre-existing and therefore not covered by the 
policy. It says the fault also pre-existed Mr A putting car A on the breakdown  policy.  Acromas 
says it was fair to base  its payment for the CPV work on the official guidance issued by the 
cars manufacturer for the time needed  to do the work. It says it asked Mr A to get garage  S 
to send it confirmation of the repair time,  but he didnt do so.
Our investigator thought as the same fault with the pump had reoccurred in January 2018,  it 
was fair for Acromas to decline Mr As claim. She also thought  it was fair for it to rely on the 
details it got from garage H. But she said if Mr A had any further  evidence  about standard 
labour times, Acromas should consider it. Mr A didnt  provide any more  information. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
My provisional view was that Mr As complaint should be upheld in part. My provisional 
decision was as follows:
air injection pump
Acromas has provided the record completed  by the technician who was called out to check  
car A in September 2017. Mr A says the technician only switched off the warning light. But 
the written record shows he carried out a temporary repair  on a wiring  fault to the secondary 
Ref: DRN03288102air injection pump. Acromas has also provided  the record completed by another  technician in 
January 2018  for the same wiring fault to the secondary air injection pump. He also carried  
out a temporary  repair to it. 
Mr A made a claim on the breakdown policy for parts and labour after he later took car A to a 
garage for inspection. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I can see why Acromas  rejected the 
claim. The job sheet  from September  2017 has a section  headed  Important Notice. The 
notice says where a temporary roadside  repair is done, a consumer must  ensure  their 
vehicle is later checked by an appropriate repairer. The reason  given  for that is that roadside 
repairs cant be carried out to the same  standard as those in a fully-equipped workshop. 
Mr A signed  the job sheet  - immediately below the notice  to confirm  hed been  given a 
copy of the notice on the sheet handed  to him by the technician. So I think  it was reasonable 
for Acromas to say he knew  about  the fault and should have had it checked and if necessary 
repaired. He added car A to the breakdown policy in November 2017 without doing so. 
When the second technician found the same fault in January  2018,  I think  it was fair for 
Acromas to say it was a pre-existing fault,  so it wasnt  covered  by the breakdown  policy.
CPV (constant pressure  valve)
Mr A says in June 2018 his car developed a leak and warning lights  appeared. A technician 
came out to inspect the fault and Mr A was advised to take it to a garage.  I think it was 
reasonable for Acromas to want to check that the repair work was likely to take four to five 
hours, as garage  B had stated. In my opinion, garage Bs invoice was very basic  indeed.  It 
was handwritten, had no formal  letter  heading and gave no details at all about the repair. 
I can see why Acromas  would have been concerned about  that. But it didnt dismiss the 
invoice out of hand. Ive listened to the call Acromass advisor made to garage B to clarify it. 
I think its fair to say that its engineer wasnt  particularly helpful in his responses.  
The policy says that claims will be assessed  in line with the manufacturers standard  repair 
times. So I think it was reasonable for Acromas  to contact a dealership  garage  (garage H) to 
check what they were. Having done  that, I can see why it would have been even more  
dubious about  the scant details provided  given  by garage B. Mr A later provided an email 
from garage S that said the work would require several hours to complete. Acromas  said it 
wanted garage S to contact it directly.  Mr A agreed to that, but it didnt happen. 
As there was such a disparity in the repair times, our investigator contacted another 
dealership garage. It said replacing a CPV was likely to take three hours. We put that to 
Acromas and it agreed to review the details garage H had provided. 
Acromas then told us it had proved difficult to determine the repair  time,  but that in the 
interests of resolving the issue, it would agree to pay for three hours labour. Mr A didnt 
accept the offer. He said hed provided evidence that the work would take longer than that, 
so he still felt Acromas should pay him the full amount on garage Bs invoice. 
For whatever reason,  theres clearly  been  real difficulty  in establishing  a repair  time that 
dealership garages  agree  on. In my view,  garage  Bs invoice wasnt  something Acromas  
could reasonably be required to pay. But I think it would have been useful for Acromas  to 
seek clarification or a view from another source once the disparity over repair  times  between 
two dealership garages (garage H and garage  S) became apparent.  
Ref: DRN03288103In the circumstances here, I dont think the evidence  is sufficient to show  that Acromas 
should pay for four to five hours labour, in line with garage Bs invoice. But I dont think  the 
sum Acromas has paid Mr A so far is enough. In my opinion,  Acromass offer to pay for a 
total of three hours work is reasonable. That would cover most  of sum set out on the invoice  
from garage B. It should  also pay interest  on the extra sum it pays Mr A. I think that would be 
a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint. 
Acromas accepted my provisional view. Mr A said Acromas had provided false information, 
as the technician who was called out in September 2017 only switched a warning light off. 
Mr A said he shouldnt  have had the £35 excess deducted from the sum Acromas paid for 
the CPV repair.  He said hed be prepared to accept an offer from it to pay for an extra two 
and a quarter  hours  work on that repair, plus interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think Acromas  has provided persuasive  
evidence of the work done by the technician to the air pump  in September  2017.  The job 
sheet was signed by Mr A. Theres nothing to show that it provided false information. Mr A 
wants Acromas  to increase the sum it has offered  to pay towards  the CPV repair, but he 
hasnt justified why it should do that. I think its offer to pay for three  hours work in total is fair 
and reasonable.  And Acromas was entitled  to deduct the £35 excess from its initial payment 
towards the claim  thats in line with the policy, as set out in its Key Benefits section.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited  to do the following: 
pay Mr A for three hours work in total on the CPV repair  (so minus the sum it has 
already paid towards the repair) based on garage Bs invoice
add interest to the extra  sum due, from the date of the invoice to the date of payment, 
at the simple yearly  rate of 8% 
If Acromas  thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0328810