K820x#14complaint
Mrs B and Mr E say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1996 Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax. She took out a PPI policy to protect her 
monthly mortgage payments. In 1999  she transferred her house into her name  and Mr Es 
name jointly. At that stage, Mrs B and Mr E took out a further advance on the mortgage. And 
at the same  time, they took out PPI in joint names to protect their monthly mortgage 
payments and associated costs. This complaint is about the PPI which Mrs B and Mr E took 
out in 1999.
The policy benefit  was split equally between Mrs B and Mr E. So if either  of them  had made 
a successful claim on the policy for accident,  sickness or unemployment, it would have paid 
50% of the monthly benefit. And it would have  done  so for up to 12 months per successful 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B and Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs B and Mr Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs B and Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs B and Mr Es signed  application for the further advance.  It 
includes a section  on PPI. It asks whether the applicant currently  has PPI, and if so, 
whether they wish to increase the monthly benefit to cover  the further  advance. Theres a 
Y against each of those questions.  Mrs B and Mr E signed  specifically to say that they 
wished to take PPI, in addition to signing the form overall. And they signed  a separate  
PPI application  form. I think Halifax made  it clear  to Mrs B and Mr E that the PPI was 
optional. And I think they decided  to take the cover, knowing that they had a choice.
Mrs B and Mr E have told us that Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to them. But Halifax  
says it did. For the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed that a recommendation was 
made. This is to Mrs B and Mr Es advantage,  as it means that Halifax  had a 
responsibility to check  that the PPI was suitable  for them.  But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Mrs Bs told us that shed have  been  entitled  to statutory sick pay from her employer at 
the time.  Mr E says hed have received up to six months full sick pay from his employer. 
But if either Mrs B or Mr E had made a successful claim on the policy, it would potentially 
have paid out for significantly longer  than theyd have been  entitled to sick pay for. And it 
would have paid the same benefit if theyd become unemployed. Whats more,  the PPI 
would have paid out in addition  to any payments Mrs B and Mr E received from their 
employers. So they could have used those  to meet  other  day-to-day  expenses.  
Ref: DRN06201582Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage  as a significant, long-term financial 
commitment, secured  on Mrs B and Mr Es home.  The consequences of not keeping  up 
with their mortgage payments could have been serious. I acknowledge that Mrs Bs told 
us she had life insurance with the mortgage. But thats a different sort of cover, and 
wouldnt have paid out in the same circumstances as PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy could have been  useful to Mrs B and 
Mr E, especially  as theyve told us that aside from payments from their employers, they 
didnt have any other means  they could have  fallen back on to make  their monthly 
mortgage payments.
The cost of the policy was shown on the PPI application. So I think Mrs B and Mr E 
would have understood how much  theyd need to pay for it. And since they were paying 
for it monthly,  they could have cancelled the policy at any time with no further cost if their 
circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted  the cover.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover  (for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements,  or existing medical conditions). But based on what 
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mrs B and Mr E would  have 
been affected by any of these.  So I think its unlikely  that Mrs B and Mr E would have 
changed their minds about  taking the PPI, even if better  information  had been  provided.
Ive taken into account all Mrs B and Mr Es comments, including what theyve said about not 
having been told that they could have looked  elsewhere for an alternative  policy.  But Halifax 
wasnt obliged to tell Mrs B and Mr E about  policies that might have been  available from 
other providers. 
Mrs B and Mr Es representatives  have  also suggested that there was no need for Halifax  to 
sell a new policy in 1999. But the mortgage had previously  been  in Mrs Bs sole name. And 
the fact that the cover  was amended in 1999  to include Mr E doesnt change my conclusion.  
For the reasons  Ive set out, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B and Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0620158