K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Covea Insurance Plcs decision to decline his claim and cancel his 
policy. 
background
Mr A had income protection insurance with Covea. He made  a claim on his policy  in July 
2018 following  a road traffic accident but it was declined and subsequently cancelled.  
Covea said it declined  Mr As claim because he didnt meet the policy  terms, particularly 
because it didnt believe his incapacity was severe enough to stop him assisting, managing 
and carrying out any part within his business  whatsoever. Covea also discovered that Mr A 
had provided inaccurate information about his occupation and said that further attempts to 
validate his claim caused  more confusion  and ambiguity. It decided to cancel his policy  
altogether because of the inconsistencies with Mr As testimony.  
Our investigator said Covea hadnt done  anything wrong.  She was satisfied  itd declined 
Mr As claim fairly because there was evidence that suggested hed continued to be involved 
with work  during the time he said he was incapacitated. She also said Mr A hadnt been  
upfront with Covea  initially  and that it was entitled to cancel his policy  as a result. 
Mr A disagreed. He said Covea has consistently twisted  his words when it came to 
discussing his involvement  with his business  and that it was simply looking for ways not to 
pay his claim. He also said the situation  caused him a great deal of stress and that hes 
currently unable to work for a different reason. Mr A said Coveas actions have been 
detrimental as he now has no cover and is unable to bring  a claim for his latest illness.  
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr As complaint.  My reasons for doing  so are similar to those already given by our 
investigator, but ultimately, I dont think Covea  has done anything wrong here. Ill explain 
why.  
Covea, like all insurers, are bound by the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority. The 
relevant rule that applies here is set out under the Insurance  Code of Business Sourcebook  
(ICOBS). In summary, it says insurers must not unreasonably  reject  a claim or avoid one. Im 
highlighting this as its the key test Ive applied in Mr As case. 
Covea must  show that prior to declining Mr As claim, it conducted a fair investigation  into Mr 
As circumstances  and that its able to evidence its decision to decline the claim and cancel 
the policy.
Mr A initially  told Covea  that he was a financial  advisor,  however,  that wasnt his only 
occupation. Covea  discovered he also had his own business and so it wanted  to know  more  
about that so it could  better understand Mr As financial circumstances. Covea approached 
him with its findings and gave him the opportunity to explain  his occupation fully  which is 
what Id expect it to do in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN05017782Mr A gave Covea unclear  information about the business and his role within  it. Having 
carefully considered  everything he told Covea, its still unclear  why Mr A hadnt disclosed this 
in either  claim. He explained to our investigator  that hed shared this information  with the 
insurer earlier in 2018 during the life of an earlier claim he made but Ive not seen any 
evidence of that. Mr A subsequently said he didnt think it was necessary to share  this 
information because  the business  wasnt making any profit. 
But his policy is designed to suit any occupation   meaning Covea would need to be 
satisfied that Mr A isnt suited to any other  occupation by way of skill or education. And so I 
think it was a material piece of information  that wasnt  disclosed. I also note Mr As other 
occupation as a financial advisor  and what hes said about his previous career history. I think 
its fair to say that Mr A is financially astute and familiar  with both the financial and insurance  
industries by way of experience. Ive highlighted this because  Im less persuaded by his 
response for non-disclosure of material information  throughout the life of this claim. I think  it 
reasonable to suggest that Mr A was aware he should have shared this information.  
Mr As claim was declined because Covea wasnt satisfied that he wasnt  actively  involved 
within his business.  It suggested hed been involved with advertising, booking clients  and 
completing work on site. To be clear, the policy terms  says;
If you are self employed, a condition  will only be acceptable as an accident if it stops You 
from assisting, managing and/or carrying on any part of your business  whatsoever      
Covea said Mr A didnt meet this term given what Ive just explained. I note Mr A was given a 
chance to respond  to the allegation and so Ive considered his comments. In summary,  Mr A 
said the Facebook posts werent written by him and that hes had to employ someone else to 
take over his responsibilities within the business.  Im persuaded by some of what  Mr A says 
because there is another administrator for the website who could have posted adverts. 
However, Im less persuaded that Mr A has handed  all responsibilities  to another  person. I 
say that because theres no evidence to support this. Ive seen the business bank 
statements which show Mr As business transactions. There are regular payments being  
made to another party, but these  were happening prior to both of Mr As claims. Further,  
theres no uplift in the amounts being paid, like Mr A had suggested, and so Im not 
persuaded by what hes told us. 
I should also mention  that this isnt consistent  with what Mr A initially told Covea. Previously, 
he explained  the business had ceased  whilst he was unable to work. But the evidence Ive 
seen suggests  the business was running normally. Theres money coming  in and leaving  the 
account on an almost daily basis. Also, Mr A confirmed these are legitimate business 
transactions. So I disagree that Covea has twisted Mr As words, its simply questioned what  
Mr A has told it previously. And given what Ive just explained,  I dont  think  its treating Mr A 
unfairly by doing  so as the evidence  suggests  the business  continued  to run whilst he said 
that he was unable to work.
Its for these reasons  I think Covea declined Mr As claim  fairly as theres not enough 
evidence to suggest Mr A was unable to assist in any capacity. 
Throughout the life of the claim, there  have been instances where Mr A has given misleading 
or inaccurate  information. Covea highlighted the following declaration that Mr A agreed  to;
Ref: DRN05017783I declare that to the best of my knowledge  the answers I have given are true and I know  that 
if I knowingly  give false, misleading or incorrect information  I may have to repay any benefit I 
have been paid and I may lose all rights  under the policy. I understand that legal action could 
be taken against  me.
And so given the examples Covea  has put forward where Mr A provided it with inaccurate 
information, Im satisfied it has cancelled his policy fairly. I also note that our investigator  set 
out her reasons for not upholding Mr As complaint  which largely mirror  my own reasons   
yet Mr A hadnt provided any response  to those  arguments. And so in the absence of any 
persuasive reasons  to counter Coveas investigation, Im satisfied that its acted fairly and in 
accordance with the policy  terms. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0501778