K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
This complaint is about PPI taken out to cover  Mr Rs Visa and Mastercards. The cards  were 
issued at the same time when Mr R applied for a credit card account. The bank cant confirm 
where or when the policies were sold. It assumes it was in 1994 when the credit card 
account was opened, although its records dont show PPI being  charged on the account until 
2000. The policies  gave Mr R protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence is incomplete  Ive made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  so, on what  I think  is most likely  given  the 
available evidence and what  we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds had to make  it clear to Mr R that the PPI was optional,  and he had to agree  to 
take it out. There isnt much information  to go on in this case, because everything 
happened so long ago. And I dont think its surprising  or unreasonable  Lloyds doesnt 
have Mr Rs application  form any more.  
From what  we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards  between 1994 and 
2000, I think its likely Lloyds wouldve made Mr R aware he had a choice about PPI. 
The sample of the application form hes likely  to have used shows he would have 
needed to tick a box to take out PPI. And the option to decline PPI would have  been  set 
out with equal prominence.
Overall, without stronger evidence showing the bank  didnt make it clear  PPI was 
optional, I cant fairly  conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr R without giving him a choice, 
and him agreeing to take it. 
Its most  likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R. This means Lloyds had to make  
sure it was right for him. I think  it was suitable based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr R initially told us he was employed but more recently has 
sent in evidence which he says shows he was self-employed.  I cant  see from what  he 
has submitted however  what time period it refers to, or what business it is. However, as 
the policy  would  still have been suitable if Mr R was self-employed  this doesnt  change 
my analysis.  I say this as from what we know about the policies Lloyds sold between 
1994 and 2000  he would  still have  been  eligible for the cover. And it wouldnt have been 
any harder for him to make a successful  unemployment claim  that someone who was 
employed. 
Ref: DRN05695382Mr R told us he had £2,000 in savings but the PPI would  have  allowed him to use these  
for other living expenses  whilst not working,  or to keep them  intact for his future  needs.  
Mr R also said his father would have helped but thats not suitable alternative  protection.  
Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  So, overall, I think the PPI 
wouldve been useful  to Mr R if he was sick or unemployed.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, based  on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems he 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations.  And, given what we 
know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these  years,  the PPI wouldve been  
competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr R wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think he 
would still have  taken  out PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr R has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0569538