K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns an advisory trading account set up with SVS Securities Plc. He 
says he wanted  to open a straightforward  execution-only account  but was persuaded to also 
open the advisory account, in which shares  were traded at a much higher level of risk than 
hed intended.
background
In March 2016 Mr H opened  an execution-only, on-line trading account in joint names with 
his wife. Having  done so, he encountered  difficulties in trying  to activate the account, so he 
called SVS. He says he was persuaded to speak to a financial adviser, which  ultimately led 
him to also opening  the advisory  trading account  in question. 
Over the course of the following months  a number  of trades were made on his behalf by the 
adviser. Mr H says that he was unaware  that these  trades were all in AIM-listed shares and, 
moreover, all tended towards the more specialist,  higher risk end of that market. When  he 
became concerned about losses and the level of risk being taken he had difficulty contacting  
the adviser and didnt  receive statements as expected. Eventually, the adviser left and was 
replaced by a colleague who,  according  to Mr H, acknowledged that the portfolio hadnt  been 
managed properly. 
Mr H made  a complaint  to SVS but it didnt uphold  it. It said that it had carried out a full know  
your client (KYC)  process as part of the account opening and this had demonstrated that 
Mr H was an experienced investor whod previously invested in AIM stocks and was looking 
to take a higher level of risk with the money committed  to the advisory  account.  SVS 
highlighted that the adviser had always called Mr H prior to any trades to discuss  what  was 
proposed. SVS did, however,  note that a couple of AIM trades had been placed after Mr H 
had specifically requested that no more be carried out. So it offered him £800 compensation 
for the loss that one of these trades  had made.   
Mr H disputed this account  of what had happened  so referred his complaint to this service. 
But our investigator didnt think SVS had done anything  wrong.  Mr H maintained that the 
adviser had acted incorrectly. He reiterated  that it had always  been his intention  to retain his 
original capital, produce a modest return and not to enter into any high risk investments.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review and I issued an 
provisional decision in May 2019. In it I said, in part:
I think  its important  to note that Mr H didnt  approach SVS with the intention of opening the 
advisory account. He first opened an on-line, execution-only  account in joint names  and it 
was only because he was unable to access this that the initial conversation  about  the 
advisory account came about. 
What was said during  this conversation  is very much in dispute. Mr H says he made clear 
that he wasnt looking for high risk trading  and that any discussions were concerned solely  
with the limited amount of money  that he was prepared  to commit to the advisory account  
initially some  £50,000.  
The KYC documentation  associated with the account opening process doesnt really tally 
with this. It does, as SVS has indicated, paint a picture of a more experienced investor with 
significant funds  available  whos invested  previously  in AIM stocks. 
Ref: DRN08712532But, that said, it is quite  thin on information and doesnt always  appear to have been 
completed as required. For instance, the risk profile  section has space in which to note the 
monetary amount that the account  holder  wishes to invest in each  category.  In Mr Hs form it 
simply says case  by case in each section including not only FTSE100,  FTSE250 and AIM, 
but also for unlisted  and T+20  trading. 
As such,  this makes it difficult to determine precisely  what was discussed  and agreed with 
Mr H. Unfortunately  there is no recording of the account opening conversation  available,  nor 
are there recordings  or even system notes  of any of the subsequent calls between  Mr H 
and the adviser.  
This being so, Im currently persuaded by Mr Hs very compelling  evidence. Hes put forward  
a wholly  plausible  version of events that leads me to conclude  that the adviser significantly 
deviated from what was discussed and agreed. Whether this was in error or deliberately, it 
seems it led to Mr H trading for many months in stocks that, on balance, I dont think he 
wouldve done had the advisory  account either never been  opened,  or if it had been  
managed in the way in which Mr H says was agreed. 
I accept there are some questions over why Mr H allowed the situation to run on and didnt 
take steps sooner to ensure his exposure  to risk was reduced. But hes explained  that he 
simply wasnt aware of how much risk was associated with the niche AIM stocks that were 
being purchased on his behalf. He had no reason to think  that the adviser would misinterpret 
what had been  agreed at the outset and he also had very little visibility of the ongoing 
position of his account. There were  limited statements issued  and there was no on-line 
access as there wouldve  been with the execution-only account that he originally opened. 
Mr H also says that when  he did query  losses with the adviser,  he was told that it was still 
early days  and that he needed to commit for longer.   
Ultimately, as noted, this is very much a dispute  about what was said. But in light of the very 
limited documentation  that SVS has, so far, been  able to supply and a lack of clear evidence 
that Mr H was provided with, understood and accepted the terms of the account and how it 
was going to be managed  for him, I find Im much  more persuaded by his very credible 
explanation of events.
SVS responded to say, in brief:
Mr Hs account had been opened and run in accordance with all Financial  Conduct  
Authority (FCA) requirements  in respect of KYC information and suitability.
It was disappointed I had reached a conclusion on the balance of probabilities,  in 
contradiction of the adjudicator, simply because  no recordings of calls had been 
available. 
The system  notes provided showed regular contact with Mr H and also demonstrated 
that he didnt always agree to invest. 
Mr H was aware of the risks involved and SVS have a structured compliance 
monitoring process in place. 
An email from Mr H of August 2017 to SVS demonstrated he understood the risks 
associated with AIM investments as he said he believed the strategy  is no longer 
working.
In respect of statements, there was only a FCA requirement to send them  six-
monthly, which it had done.
Ref: DRN08712533Finally, regarding the compensation the £800  it had offered for the trade done after it 
had been agreed  that no more AIM trades should be done  should not be paid in 
addition to the recommended compensation.
In response to my provisional decision SVS were also able to provide recordings of all the 
calls that had been made between it and Mr H. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments in light of the further submissions 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
While Ive noted all SVS additional  points,  the most important development since I issued 
my provisional decision is, as noted,  that SVS has now been able to make available 
recordings of all the phone calls. As such, I now have a much clearer picture  of what 
happened and how the situation  developed.  
Broadly speaking, the calls reflect  the course of events Id set out in my provisional decision.  
Mr H spoke to an adviser  to set up the advisory account following problems with access to 
the on-line account  hed originally opened.  He then spoke  regularly  over the course  of the 
following months to the same adviser to discuss  trades  and he sometimes  placed  orders  as 
a result of those discussions. He did this up to the point at which he became concerned with 
the situation, in late 2017, which is around the time the adviser  left SVS.  Mr H then 
continued to have regular calls with a new adviser and the complaint developed.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that SVS exposed his capital to more  risk that hed wanted 
and he made substantial losses as a result. Having  now listened to the recordings, Ive been 
able to confirm  that he did make  statements  in the account-opening call indicating that he 
didnt want to expose his money to the risk of losing more than 30%;  indeed,  he made this 
point on several occasions.  
Admittedly, he then went on to show an interest  in the type of AIM stocks that were 
subsequently recommended to him. And also to show some  understanding of how this area 
of investment worked  and that he had some experience  of it. But overall, Im of the view 
that his initial  comments about the degree  of loss he was prepared to accept shouldve led 
the adviser to recognise that the type of stocks he then repeatedly recommended  in short, 
the overall strategy that seems  to have been  adopted   werent consistent with Mr Hs 
objectives. 
In response to SVS specific comments, I acknowledge  that the required regulatory KYC 
process was carried out, although the process  does appear to have been quite relaxed and 
there were gaps in the information.  And I also accept the situation with the issuing of 
statements. 
But nevertheless,  overall,  having now had the opportunity to listen to the phone 
conversations between SVS and Mr H, I remain satisfied that an error by SVS in the form of 
its adviser deviating  from what Mr H had initially agreed led directly  to him incurring losses  
for which SVS should compensate him. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr H 
Ref: DRN08712534as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
I think Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given his 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
I note SVS  point concerning the compensation already offered in respect of the trades 
completed after Mr H had requested that no further AIM deals be done.  I accept this point 
and agree that the compensation set out below should take into account any amount already 
paid. 
what should  SVS do? 
To compensate Mr H fairly, SVS must:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
SVS should also pay interest  as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Advisory  
Accountstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days 
of the business 
being  notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value  
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in.
 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
Ref: DRN08712535fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
SVS totals all those  payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting  
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Hs circumstances and risk attitude.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct SVS 
Securities Plc to pay compensation to Mr H as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0871253