K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss D say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr S and Miss D were  sold a PPI policy during a meeting in 2000, around the same time that 
they applied for their mortgage.
Mr S and Miss D bought  the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S and Miss D for accident, sickness, and unemployment 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. Halifax has told us it offered to repay £366.15 (split 
50% between Mr S and Miss D) a month towards Mr S and Miss Ds mortgage balance and 
related expenses in the event of a successful claim.  At the time, it cost £22.18  a month.  
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a car valeter. He told us he was entitled  to statutory sick 
pay only and didnt  have  any other  means  of repaying their mortgage should he be unable  to 
work. Based on how long Mr S had been in his employment for I think its likely he wouldve 
been entitled to some statutory redundancy pay. 
Miss D was employed in an administrative role. She told us she was entitled to statutory sick 
pay only and didnt  have  any other  means  of repaying their mortgage should she be unable  
to work. 
The evidence from the sale suggests  Mr S and Miss D had some limited  savings  at the time 
 but it is unclear if these were earmarked for the property purchase.  Mr S and Miss D both 
say they had a medical condition a number of years before the sale.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005.
Mr S and Miss Ds representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr S and Miss Ds representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S and Miss D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S and 
Miss Ds representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN08359042claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr S and Miss D about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to 
Mr S and Miss D and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a 
claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr S and Miss D received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr S and Miss D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S and Miss Ds. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S and Miss Ds 
complaint.
This sale took place  in April 2000 before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN08359043There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr S and Miss Ds case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr S and Miss Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr S and Miss D with reasonable  care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN08359044-Whether Halifax gave Mr S and Miss D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S 
and Miss D, I must  then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent Mr S 
and Miss D suffered  loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S 
and Miss D and Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and Miss Ds complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.  
did Mr S and Miss D know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  On the mortgage application 
there is a section related to PPI titled  Mortgage  Repayments Insurance. This section has 
been completed with Mr S and Miss Ds details. Mr S and Miss D have signed the mortgage 
application so I think its likely they wouldve reviewed the form before signing to ensure it 
reflected what they wanted. Theres nothing to suggest the PPI was compulsory.  And Ive 
seen a copy of a follow up letter that was set to Mr S and Miss D confirming (amongst other 
things) that a Halifax adviser had discussed PPI and its cost with Mr S and Miss D. Taking  
everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr S and Miss D knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr S and Miss D say Halifax  didnt provide them with advice during the sale. Halifax 
disagrees and says it did provide advice. Looking at what happened  Mr S and Miss D were 
sold the PPI, Im persuaded that they did receive advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr S and Miss D with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr S and Miss D. The adviser had information about some  of Mr S and Miss Ds financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. And I can see from the PPI application 
form some  questions appear to have  been  asked about Mr S and Miss Ds employment 
status and health. But I dont think these  questions went  far enough to build a full picture  of 
Mr S and Miss Ds wider  circumstances at the time  to allow  Halifax  to make  a suitable 
recommendation.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr S and Miss D given their circumstances.  
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN08359045While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr S and Miss D, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr S and Miss D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr S and Miss D had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr S and Miss Ds 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if either Mr S or Miss D were  not working  for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for their statutory sick pay benefits, savings and the statutory redundancy 
benefits its likely Mr S wouldve been  entitled to at the time. 
-Although Mr S and Miss D say they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr S and Miss D. 
There was nothing  about Mr S or Miss Ds employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And the policy  didnt contain  any restrictions 
in relation to existing  medical conditions. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that to claim for disability Mr S and Miss D must  not be able to do their job, similar  
work, or any paid work which their experience, education and training reasonably 
qualified them to do, and the fact the policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 
24 months for each  claim),  the policy still provided valuable cover  given:
Mr S and Miss Ds circumstances, including their statutory sick pay and Mr 
Ss statutory redundancy provisions (which they might expect to provide an 
income during  the policys 30-day qualification period) and the limits to those 
provisions, which mean the policy could play an important role after those 
provisions were  exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr S or Miss D be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr S and Miss D 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S and Miss D were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect Mr S and Miss Ds 
payments if either was unable to work through accident, sickness  and unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr S and 
Miss D would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be. I also note the mortgage application form signed by Mr S 
Ref: DRN08359046and Miss D describes  the policy as paying  out in the event  of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost, how long the benefit wouldve been paid, or the exclusions 
or limitations  before Mr S and Miss D agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S and Miss D Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr S and Miss D all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr S and Miss Ds representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr S and 
Miss Ds. Ive considered  these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr S and Miss Ds representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S and Miss D about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr S and Miss Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr S and Miss D have suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Halifax ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr S and Miss D? To what extent did 
Mr S and Miss D suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr S and 
Miss D. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr S and Miss D suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr S and Miss D would have still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done things 
properly. 
Ref: DRN08359047While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr S and Miss D, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr S and Miss D suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr S and Miss D would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr S and Miss D say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr S and Miss D had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr S and Miss Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr S and Miss D knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told them the exact premium  at the point 
Mr S and Miss D applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr S and Miss D 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr S and Miss D would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S and Miss D thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr S or Miss D werent permanent employees;
Ref: DRN08359048The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S and Miss D be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonable qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr S and Miss D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S and Miss D from taking  out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr S and Miss Ds circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr S and Miss D were eligible for 
its benefits and it provided  cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr S or Miss D wouldve been caught by any of the significant  
exclusions  both were  in permanent employment,  and the policy didnt have any restrictions  
on existing medical  conditions. So, I still think they had some  good reasons to take the policy  
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr S and Miss D might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have 
expected to be able to make a disability claim without having  to provide some evidence  to 
support that claim. And while  this limitation  might  have  dissuaded  some  consumers in 
slightly different circumstances to Mr S and Miss D from taking out the policy,  Mr S and 
Miss D, in their circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it out.
If Mr S and Miss D had known  they could only claim for disability  if they were  unable to do 
their job, a similar job or any paid work  which their experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified them to do, it might have played into their thinking about  what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if either Mr S or Miss D were 
unable (through  disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be 
able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr S and Miss D that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr S and Miss D would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr S and Miss D be unable to work in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, 
it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr S and Miss D would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
Ref: DRN08359049benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr S and Miss D were made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr S and Miss D would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr S and Miss Ds representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr S and Miss D would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr S and Miss 
Ds circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr S 
and Miss D found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S and Miss D believe the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S and Miss D in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr S and Miss D compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S and Miss D think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr S and Miss D, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN083590410Ive also thought about the approach Mr S and Miss Ds representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr S and Miss D and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr S and Miss D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0835904