K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003 alongside  a mortgage. Miss B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)   
mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
The PPI was part of a package of insurance  called a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan which  
included PPI, life cover and critical illness cover. Miss B hasnt raised a complaint about  the 
life and critical illness cover, which were  sold at a later date to the PPI. Because of this, Ive 
only assessed the sale of the PPI in this decision.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
As the PPI sale happened over 15 years ago, Halifax  doesnt now have all of the documents  
that Miss B wouldve  seen  at the time. I have seen  a copy of the signed declaration. The PPI 
was taken out during a meeting and its not possible for me to know exactly  what  wouldve  
been discussed. But from what we know of how Halifax sold these policies in its branches 
around this time and the documents weve seen in the past, its likely the paperwork Miss B 
will have signed wouldve made it clear enough that the PPI was optional. So I think its likely  
that Halifax made Miss B aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI and that she 
chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  
Miss B wouldve received  6 months at full pay followed 6 months at half pay if she was sick. 
But the policy couldve covered her for up to 24 months per claim if she was too ill to work, 
had an accident  or was made redundant. And that wouldve  been  in addition to her sick pay. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Miss B back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss B now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN00750652my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0075065