K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) have only paid 50% of her claim under 
her accident  and third party liability policy. 
background
Miss A is a premium member of an organisation through which dog owners  can find people  
willing to look after, exercise  or walk their dogs  when they are unable  to do so. Miss A isnt a 
dog owner but through the organisation from time to time shes  been looking after a dog, 
whose owner is also a member.  This included, on occasion, taking the dog to work with her, 
which was allowed by her employers.
RSA provide insurance cover for the organisation and when a member joins the organisation 
they can also take out accident and third party  liability cover with RSA, which  Miss A did. 
In mid- 2018 Miss A took the dog to work with her. During the course of the day the dog 
jumped up and knocked a cup of coffee over a laptop belonging to Miss As employers. She 
submitted a claim to RSA.  RSA accepted the laptop was beyond economic repair and 
needed to be replaced. But they were only prepared to pay 50% of the replacement  cost, 
subject to deduction of Miss As policy excess of £150, as they said they regarded  her 
employers as being 50% responsible for the damage,  as theyd  allowed  her to bring the dog 
to work. 
Miss A wasnt happy with this and complained to RSA who werent prepared to reconsider 
their decision.
Miss A complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and upheld 
Miss As complaint. She said the policy covered Miss A taking the dog to work, provided it
wasnt being used  for work purposes. So she felt RSA should  pay all rather than 50% of the
claim, as they hadnt provided evidence  to show Miss As employers were 50% liable for the
claim.
RSA didnt agree as they said while they accept some degree  of liability for the damage  
would rest with Miss A, they feel her employers were equally responsible as they allowed 
dogs in the workplace. And they feel the employers  should have anticipated that by allowing 
this there  was an increased risk of an incident and damage being  caused.
Since our investigator provided her opinion  Miss A has said that after she made her claim
RSA changed  the policy terms and conditions,  adding a requirement  that liability needs to be
established before the claim is paid.
RSA have advised us that the policy terms and conditions havent been  changed and neither
has the information available online which refers to some of the terms and conditions. But,
they have told us that since our investigator  provided her opinion, they did make some 
further enquiries, in an attempt  to accurately establish liability for the damaged laptop.
As RSA didnt accept  our investigators opinion so the case  came to me for a decision.
I made  my provisional decision about the complaint on 22 July 2019.  In it I said:-
Miss As policy provides liability cover and states that indemnity is provided against legal
Ref: DRN09341222liability where she would have been entitled to this if a claim had been made against her.
The policy,  under the heading  Public/Products Liability, says it provides indemnity up to
the limit of indemnity against  legal  liability for damages in respect of  accidental loss of or
damage to property happening during the period of insurance.
In considering the policy terms Ive considered the ones that were in place when Miss A took
out the policy and these  do contain  the requirement  that legal liability needs to be
established.
So the policy  provides liability insurance  and to be able to make a successful claim under the
policy Miss A has to show shes liable for the cost of replacing her employers  damaged
laptop.
I havent seen  any evidence that Miss As employers  pursued her for the cost of replacing
the laptop. It appears that after the laptop  was damaged  she submitted a claim to RSA who
agreed it was unrepairable and paid 50% of the replacement  cost to Miss A without looking
further into her liability  for this.
We asked Miss A whether her employers  imposed  any conditions when employees brought
dogs into the workplace,  and she told us they didnt. So based on what  shes told us she
wasnt required to have  insurance in place to cover any damage that might  be caused  by a
dog, before she brought one into the workplace.
The laptop  that was damaged belonged to Miss As employers, not to her. I havent seen
any evidence of any insurance cover Miss As employers have in place  for office  equipment.
But as Miss A was allowed to bring  the dog into the office, in the absence  of any conditions
imposed by her employers, I think that to make  a successful claim under her policy with RSA
she needs to show she is responsible for damage caused to office equipment.  And I havent
seen any evidence to show  that she is.
RSA have told us they accept  that before making  any payment to Miss A they should have
established whether she was responsible for replacing the damaged  laptop. But they say
Miss A has benefitted from this as shes received 50% of the cost of a replacement  laptop.
I agree  that RSA should have established whether Miss A was entitled to an indemnity under
the policy before making any payment to her. And I cant say based on the available
evidence whether Miss A was entitled to receive any payment for the damaged  laptop.  But
as RSA has admitted  they should  have  done  more before paying 50% of her claim I think its
fair that Miss A should be allowed to keep the payment shes  received.
If Miss A can provide evidence that she was legally liable to refund the whole cost of the
replacement laptop  to her employers  then Ill consider this. But based on the available
evidence I wont be asking RSA to do anything further.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Miss As complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09341223Neither Miss A, or RSA,  have responded to my provisional decision. So I havent  been 
provided with any further evidence  so show whether, or not, Miss A is legally liable to refund 
the whole  cost of the replacing  the damaged laptop to her employers. And based on the 
available evidence I dont  see any reason  to change the findings  set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision I dont 
uphold Miss As complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019..
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0934122