K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy about Phoenix Life Assurance  Limited turning down a claim made  on his 
income protection policy. 
background
Mr H took out an income protection policy in 1999 which  was an essential  abilities policy. 
Mr H is entitled to receive the monthly  benefit  under the policy, once the deferral period 
ended, so long as hes incapacitated. To meet this definition under  the policy he must  be 
unable to perform at least three out of 11 prescribed common daily activities during the same 
time frame  such as not being unable  to sit comfortably in a chair  for 30 minutes, being 
unable to stand  for 10 minutes and not being able to walk for distances on a flat surface for 
more than 200 metres. 
Mr H was diagnosed  with leukaemia in July 2016. Mr H made a claim on the policy  in the 
same month (the first claim). The first claim was declined on the basis that Mr H wasnt 
incapacitated under the policy.  Mr H has previously made a complaint to this service  in 
respect of the first claim being declined, which  wasnt upheld.  So that everyones clear  Im 
not looking into that complaint again.
Mr H made  a further claim on the policy in April 2017 (the second  claim). Although  Mr H 
reports in his claim form that his leukaemia  was improving, he also says he was suffering 
with side effects from the medication he was on and those side effects were worsening.  He 
said he was very dizzy at times during the day, his limbs  were  painful and he had pins and 
needles in his hands. He said that he was unable to do seven of the 11 prescribed common  
daily tasks. 
Phoenix Life declined  the second claim.  It accepted that Mr H had reported occasional  
symptoms but it didnt think there was sufficient evidence from his medical records  to 
suggest that he consistently suffered with these symptoms; not to the extent he was unable 
to do at least three of the 11 prescribed common daily activities  to meet the definition  of 
incapacitated.
Mr H was unhappy with this so complained to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr H disagrees. So his complaint has been passed to me to look at everything 
afresh and to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
Before I explain why, I want to assure Mr H that I dont doubt he has been  through a very 
difficult time, and my decision is in no way intended  to be dismissive  of the issues  hes had 
with his health  and the side effects  of the medication he was on. But for the reasons below, 
I dont think Phoenix Life has unfairly  declined the second claim.
In his claim form dated April 2017  Mr H says his incapacity started on 20 February  2017.  He 
also says that: at times every day I have  to just sit down because  I am so dizzy  and have  
very painful limbs
Ref: DRN09625442When asked about his daily routine he answers: I get up, a little work if I can, at the end of 
the day I am unable to do much at all
Mr H says in his claim form that hes unable to do many  of the prescribed common daily 
activities. One of the main  reasons  for this is the effect his dizziness has on him. Looking  at 
his medical records from around that time I can see that Mr H was seeing  his GP and its 
recorded in the GP notes that Mr H was suffering with dizziness, light headiness and 
tiredness. Letters  from his hospital  consultant from around that time also support this as well 
as Mr H reporting bone pain. 
But having  considered everything, I dont think  Phoenix  has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by declining  the second claim. Thats because whilst the evidence indicates  Mr H was 
experiencing side effects which werent  pleasant theres little else to support how those side 
effects  such as his dizziness  - were affecting  his ability to carry out the prescribed common 
daily activities as he has set out in his claim form.  
Further, Mr H indicates in his claim form that he was able to work during the day. This is 
supported by a GP record dated  24 March  2017  which says that Mr H had returned to work. 
What that record doesnt  say is how long Mr H had been off work for. But a letter from Mr Hs 
hospital consultant from mid-January 2017 reports that Mr H was still working then - albeit he 
was struggling with tiredness and lethargy. So, I dont think  its likely that Mr H was off work 
for a significant period of time during the claim  period.
Mr H was a landscape  gardener so I think its fair to presume that his job was physical and 
wouldve ordinary entailed him standing, walking, bending and kneeling and using his hands.  
And these  were some of the daily activities Mr H says he could only do for short periods of 
time, or distances, in his claim  form. But theres  nothing to indicate  that when he was 
working he needed significant  help or required very frequent rests.
So Im satisfied based, on everything Phoenix  Life had, it fairly concluded that Mr H hadnt 
satisfied the policy definition of incapacitated and its reasonable for them  to decline the 
second claim on that basis.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 17 May 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0962544