K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs N complained  because  Santander UK Plc debited  £962.64  from their account,
when theyd only authorised £728.64.
background
On 15 February 2018, Mr N booked flights through an airlines website. He authorised a
payment for £728.64 using his Santander card. But when Mr N checked his bank account a
few days later, he saw that the airline  hadnt debited  a single  payment  for £728.64,  but had
debited four separate payments which totalled  £962.64. This meant hed been charged £234
more than hed authorised.
Mr and Mrs N complained  to Santander, and to the airline. They  said they were  deeply
unhappy that Santander had allowed additional sums to be taken from their account  so
easily. They  asked how this could have happened, and said they were  questioning how safe
their money was with Santander if it allowed unauthorised funds to be taken from their
account with apparently  no questions asked. They were pursuing the airline for a refund, but
needed someone to explain  to them how this hadnt  been flagged up at Santander. Mr and
Mrs N said theyd wasted a lot of time and effort to get money  back  which  Santander simply
shouldnt have allowed  to be withdrawn.
Santander upheld  the complaint. It agreed that its authorisation code records showed  that
Mr N had only authorised  a payment of £728.64. Santander said it had liaised with various
internal bank departments to understand why it had allowed a payment to go through for
£234 more than had been authorised.  It said that the airline had made a mistake in claiming
more than Mr N had authorised. It told Mr N that it couldnt say why the payment hadnt been
stopped, but if it had been stopped it might have meant the airline booking  could have been
cancelled. Santander  paid Mr and Mrs N £50 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs N werent  satisfied and complained to this service. They said they were still
pursuing the airline for a refund, but what they wanted from Santander  was that it should
provide specifics about why it hadnt  stopped the incorrect  payment.
The adjudicator obtained more information  from Santander. It said that the £728.64 had
been for a total of four flights, which was why the airline had made four separate debits.  It
said it wouldnt have known which of the four to cancel, as that would probably have meant
Mr N would have lost the booking for that flight.  Santander also said it couldnt  control  what
came through clearing,  and relied  on the merchant to process payments correctly. It also
said that customers had a right to request  a chargeback.
The adjudicator passed this information on to Mr and Mrs N. Meanwhile, the airline had
responded to Mr and Mrs Ns complaint with an apology for overcharging by £234. It
refunded £150  of the money,  and also sent a voucher for £120.  The adjudicator didnt think
Santander had done anything wrong about  the payments. He explained to Mr and Mrs N that
this service isnt the regulator and doesnt seek  to punish banks. e thought  Santanders £50
compensation was fair.
Ref: DRN00000012Mr and Mrs N didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They pointed out that 
theyd initially been told Santander had paid the extra to avoid the flights being cancelled, 
and then they were  told Santander couldnt  have stopped the payments. They  thought 
Santander had spun them a tall story. They were very concerned that the authorisation code 
had been authority for a party to take whatever it wanted from their bank, while  Santander 
stood and watched.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
I said I could quite  understand why Mr and Mrs N are so concerned. They authorised  a 
payment for one amount,  and Santander allowed the airline  to debit a larger amount. And 
they hadnt had a reasonable explanation  for how it could have happened.
First, I looked  at Mr and Mrs Ns financial loss. They were overcharged  by £234, and had
provided us with the airlines apology email,  where it confirmed a refund of £150 and a
voucher for £120. The email didnt say whether  Mr and Mrs N accepted this as a
settlement, but this service doesnt have  jurisdiction over disputes with airlines. If Mr and
Mrs N want to pursue the issue of having  had £84 of their financial loss recompensed with a
voucher for £120, they could make a chargeback request to Santander. But theyd want  to
bear in mind  that they might  have to return the voucher if they wanted £84 cash  from the
airline instead.
So the issue  for me to consider was Santanders response to Mr and Mrs Ns concerns 
about allowing  more  money to be taken  than they authorised.  I agreed  with Mr and Mrs N 
that Santander hadnt provided a clear  and reasonable explanation for paying out more than
Mr N had authorised. I also noted that they were  initially told that Santander didnt stop the
wrong payment  because  it didnt want to risk the booking being cancelled,  but were  later told
that it couldnt stop the payment anyway.
I said there were two aspects to this  why Santander didnt stop the payment, and the 
customer service  and compensation  it gave Mr and Mrs N.
In regards to not stopping  the payment, Santander  hadnt given either Mr and Mrs N, or us, a
clear explanation. The authorisation code generated when Mr N authorised the transaction
was for £728.64. I checked this on Santanders computer records.  So Id have  expected
this to be the maximum the bank allowed to be paid. The fact that the transaction was made
in four parts (reflecting different parts of the journey with different airline  carriers) shouldnt
have made  any difference to the total.  I also saw no evidence that there was any
exception report or referral to a real person to take a decision about whether to authorise the
overpayment. So I wasnt convinced by the argument that the higher amount was allowed  to
prevent a possible flight cancellation.
Ultimately, its not possible for this service to identify why the banks systems didnt stop the
payment. Its the role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority, to deal with a banks
systems. So it wasnt open to me to provide the reason, or reassurances,  which  Mr and 
Mrs N were seeking.
Ref: DRN00000013But I did go on to look at the frustration, inconvenience and upset which Santander  caused  
Mr and Mrs N. I took into account both the nuisance and distress which  the original 
overpayment caused, and also the fact that Santanders explanations to Mr and Mrs N were  
incomplete, and failed to provide either a substantive reason for what had happened, or 
reassurance that the problem had been addressed for the future. I explained that I couldnt 
take into account the hassles which the airline caused Mr and Mrs N when  they were  trying  
to obtain a refund. But I did bear in mind they wouldnt  have had to contact the airline at all if 
Santander had stopped  the payment because it exceeded what had been authorised.
Taking these factors  into account, I found that a more  appropriate  figure for compensation 
for Mr and Mrs Ns distress and inconvenience would be £200.  Santander  has paid £50 
already, which  would leave £150  still to pay.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr and Mrs N, and Santander, accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and having taken into 
account that both sides  accepted my provisional decision, I intend  to make an order as set 
out in the provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs N £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  by debiting  a higher amount than theyd 
authorised; failing to provide clear or consistent  explanations; and failing to provide sufficient 
reassurance that the issue wouldnt recur. As Santander has paid £50 already, this leaves  
£150 still to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0000001