K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) is liable  for various  costs  under a storm 
claim she made in 2011. This includes legal costs she incurred in connection with the works 
carried out after the storm and items in storage. She also complains about other issues  and 
argues that AXA should  pay for the loss assessor she instructed to assist her with the claim.
Any reference to AXA includes its agents.
background
Mrs F had specialist  holiday  cottages  insurance with AXA for her home, known as the main 
house, and three holiday  cottages she rented out. She made a claim when her properties  
were damaged during a storm that occurred at the start of 2011. AXA accepted the claim. 
Mrs F had a connection with a builders firm, B. She was friends with the owner  and they 
were already  doing building works  for her at the property. While AXA agreed  to pay for the 
repairs, a JCT contract (JCT) was agreed  between Mrs F and B for the works in December 
2011 after a tendering process. 
In April 2013, a final certificate of payment  was issued which signified the works  under the 
JCT were  complete. But Mrs F was unhappy  as she thought the work was incomplete and 
defective so the final invoice from B wasnt paid. A site meeting with Mrs F, B and the JCT 
administrator took place  and a final amended certificate of payment was issued in May 
2013. Mrs F didnt pay the amended certificate either.
In September  2013, B started court proceedings against Mrs F for just over £23,600 due on 
the final account under the JCT,  £5,640  for additional works and less than £500 for interest.  
Mrs F counter claimed for damages  for defective and incomplete works and £149,600 for 
liquidated damages arising from the delay in completing the works which  she said was 
continuing. The proceedings  came  to an end in May 2015 when the judgment was issued. 
Ultimately, during the court  proceedings, Mrs F accepted the builder was entitled to payment 
of £23,130.34 and it was held that she was able to offset the sum of £11,733 in respect of 
necessary remedial works. Her claim for liquidated  damages was refused based on the 
shared understanding that the provision for liquidated damages no longer applied. 
As Bs claim was mostly successful and Mrs Fs was mostly  unsuccessful,  she was 
ultimately responsible  for Bs costs.
Although AXA wasnt involved  in the proceedings, it made  a payment to the builders in 
March 2016 of nearly £80,000 to cover  the amount awarded at court,  including  interest  and 
costs. It says this was a gesture of goodwill  to prevent Mrs Fs property being taken away  
from her.
Mrs F complained to this service in 2015 and the complaint  was upheld by one of our 
ombudsmen. The ombudsman concluded AXA was expected to deal with the claim and its 
actions gave the impression it was in charge  of the arrangements with B. He required AXA to 
pay for rectification  works that needed  to be done  to Mrs Fs property. Within  the decision 
the ombudsman  also required  AXA to pay for storage  costs,  alternative accommodation for a 
further three months  and consider electricity costs and other  costs  Mrs F wanted to recover.  
The ombudsman also directed AXA to pay compensation to Mrs F for the distress and 
inconvenience shed  suffered.
Ref: DRN02357092Mrs F further  complained  to AXA about a number  of outstanding issues which she felt still 
needed to be resolved  by AXA. AXA issued a final response letter in June 2017. It upheld  
some of the complaint points. In relation to some of Mrs Fs key points, it said the following.
Itd consider the legal  costs relating to the litigation  against B if it was sent the 
solicitors files to assess whether the costs were  reasonable. 
It wouldnt pay for any ongoing storage or legal  costs  incurred  in connection with the 
storage company, R. This is because  itd made  payments for storage direct to Mrs F 
and her loss assessor. So, if shed  been unable to get her things back,  it was 
because those payments  hadnt  been passed to R. 
It was unwilling to pay any more  towards invoices issued in 2011 or pay backdated 
interest on the payment of £15,000 from 2011  as it was a gesture and Mrs F hadnt 
given them sufficient  evidence  to support that the works  to which these costs relate 
were justified.  
The loss assessors  fees werent covered under  the policy and there was no 
evidence the loss assessor had altered the course of the claim or added any benefit.
Mrs F wasnt satisfied  with AXAs  response and she made a further complaint to this service. 
She made several points including the following.
Theres work from 2011 that was carried out following  verbal instructions from a loss 
adjuster that doesnt meet  building regulations and further  areas of defective  work 
have been identified by Mrs Fs surveyor. AXA should put this right.
Her central heating  system should be fixed by AXA and it should also cover  the 
increased electricity bills caused by the delay.
Underground drainage pipes were removed  during excavation works and replaced in 
a new location  close to the existing  oil tank.  Shes  said the original  drains need to be 
moved back to their original 2011 location  by AXA to prevent potential contamination 
if a leak should  occur.
AXA should pay for the:
-legal  costs of the litigation  with B and liquidated  damages under the JCT.
-legal  costs of the litigation  with R as well as any items lost or damaged by R.
-carpet to be sorted out and loss of the fitted bedroom furniture.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld in part. However, Mrs F 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  
The matter  was passed to an ombudsman who issued a provisional decision in March  2019 
upholding part of Mrs Fs complaint. Both Mrs F and AXA didnt accept the provisional  
outcome and a summary of their key reasons are set out below.
Mrs Fs comments include the following  points.
AXA should pay interest on the legal  costs associated with the proceedings against 
B, backdated to September 2013 for ease of a reference point. 
She needs to be compensated for the impact AXAs failures  have had on her. She re-
mortgaged her home and took out a loan to pay the legal  costs and defective works.
The £15,000 from AXA was an interim payment not a gesture of goodwill, therefore 
shes owed interest  on it.
Ref: DRN02357093In relation to R, the invoices were addressed and sent to AXA, so it shouldnt  have 
made the payment to her loss assessor  and expected it to be paid without  clear  
instruction. Even so, there was no instruction  or evidence the payment was for Rs 
costs. And she only incurred legal costs as R took action against  her because AXA 
hadnt paid them.  She only sought an injunction to recover her goods  from R.
Interest is due on the amount of £6,419 which AXA offered to pay for items that were  
lost or damaged  in storage as she feels it is on all cash  payments.
AXA didnt appoint  a surveyor  until October 2011 and so there were  circumstances 
which meant shed  needed to instruct a loss assessor.
She wants AXA to finalise the defective work as per the court  order,  and for the 
works to be managed  by her surveyor and their fees paid by AXA.
Defective work  carried out in 2011 in the back flat resulted in mould and it must be 
closed to avoid  potential litigation from guests. She wants  AXA to pay her lost 
revenue for the time the flat is closed for these works.
She also felt the provisional decision didnt deal with the following points.
Liquidated  damages should  be paid by AXA from June 2012 until all the work is 
complete as it was their actions that compromised her claim in court for this.
The money shes owed when she paid for defective work  in phase 1 and 2 to be put 
right which  AXA refuses to pay or will only cover a percentage of.
Shes due the balance  of the contents payment of £4,000  and a further £4,500 if our 
service thinks  this amount  was for Rs costs  rather than contents.
AXA has failed to pay the full loss of revenue for further closures.
AXAs key comments include the following  points.
The direction  it should pay Mrs Fs legal costs  of the litigation with B is both perverse 
and irrational and it fails to consider the full facts of the case. 
The litigation was brought about  by the breakdown  in the personal 
relationship between Mrs F and the builder, rather than concerns with the 
quality of the works carried  out. 
Mrs F was a shareholder of B and had a financial  interest  in their appointment 
to do the work. This may have also meant  shed  benefit from both sides  of the 
proceedings.
The most significant part of the claim was the counter claim for liquidated 
damages and itd be wholly unreasonable to make  it pay the costs incurred by 
this aspect of the claim as, not only is there no cover  for this under the policy, 
but AXA had no responsibility for bringing  the claim,  no control  over its 
outcome, and wouldnt have benefitted  financially  from the outcome.
The finding that AXA appointed  the contractors to carry out the work and controlled it 
through its loss adjuster isnt fair or accurate. It says it maintained a close  
involvement as Mrs F kept deviating  from the schedule of works and instructed the 
contractors to carry out additional work which it wasnt responsible for under the 
insurance contract.  Its loss adjuster needed  to be involved to sign off on which work 
would be paid for under the insurance  policy but this didnt make it the employer - 
Mrs F was in control of the work and it wasnt present at the site meeting in May 2013 
or many others.  
It didnt previously say itd pay Mrs Fs legal costs, instead it had said itd consider 
her request upon receipt of the solicitors files but, to date, Mrs F has refused to 
share the files of those proceedings with AXA. 
Ref: DRN02357094The claim to which this complaint relates  has already significantly exceeded our 
award limit, in this case of £150,000.  This is because more than £400,000 has 
already been paid at the direction  of this service and by making  a further award  
connected with the same  claim we would be acting outside of our jurisdiction. It 
argues this service  cant make an award which, when taken into consideration with 
the earlier complaint  with which its inextricably  linked, results in AXA paying  out 
sums far in excess of the award limit. Therefore, any award made by our service can 
only be a recommendation and AXA cannot be compelled to comply  with the same.  
The matter  was then passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 14 July 
2021, an extract from which appears below and forms part of this final decision. 
my provisional findings
A previous ombudsman  issued a provisional decision in this matter. It has now been  passed 
to me for a decision.  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think  is 
more likely to have  happened in light of the evidence.
Although many issues have been  raised,  this decision  only addresses those issues  
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
our award limit
As AXA has commented, where we uphold a complaint,  an ombudsman can award fair 
compensation to be paid by a financial business up to the relevant award limit. That limit is 
determined by the date of the act or omission by the business as well as the date its 
referred to our service.  In this case, the limit is £150,000. If we think fair compensation is 
more than our award limit, we can recommend that the business pays  the balance but the 
business wouldnt be obliged  to do this, even if the consumer accepted our decision. 
However, the following are excluded from the award  limit: 
any interest on the amount payable under a money award; and
any costs awarded (and any interest awarded  on those costs). For the avoidance  of 
doubt, the reference to costs here concerns the costs of a complainant bringing a 
complaint to the Ombudsman Service. As such, it would not include, for example, the 
legal costs Mrs F has incurred in the litigation  with B and R. 
This matter involves complaint points weve looked at before and dealt  with in previous 
decisions issued by our service and AXA has explained it has already paid over our limit as 
a direct result of those  prior decisions  in excess of £400,000 it alleges.  It also involves 
other issues which stem from the same originating event and original claim but either:
havent been dealt with by us previously in a decision; or
were specifically excluded in a decision as something that needed to reach a 
conclusion before we could  consider it. For example, the legal costs against R as 
they were still in storage with R at the time of the 2015 decision. 
As the complaint points in this case are the same as those dealt with in previous  decisions or 
Ref: DRN02357095stem from the same originating event  or claim (subject to the factors  in the bullet points 
above) these complaint points are linked  to the previous  complaints and therefore  the single 
award limit of £150,000 applicable to those previous complaints. I do not consider  these  
complaint points would benefit from a new award  limit. The award limit of £150,000 has 
already been exceeded  by the amount  AXA has paid to Mrs F as a direct result of the 
previous decisions  this service has issued on those  previous complaints. Therefore, any 
amount recommended  to be paid by AXA in this decision which doesnt relate to interest 
awarded on the amount payable under a money award or costs or interest  on those costs is 
a recommendation.  It isnt part of a determination or award. AXA doesnt  have to do what  I 
recommend even if Mrs F accepts the decision.  
complaint points
I have grouped the complaint points  raised by Mrs F under fourteen  broad headings. For 
ease, Ive set these out below and then covered each one in turn.
1. Legal costs  of the proceedings  against B 
2. Legal costs  of the proceedings  against R and contents shortfall
3. Items  damaged/not returned from storage 
4. Defective works
5. Loss of rental income  whilst repairs are being done to correct  the defective  works
6. Loss of rental income
7. Damaged carpets 
8. Fitted furniture damaged by the works
9. Location of underground pipes
10. Central stove/central heating system
11. Additional heating costs incurred while without a central heating system
12. Payments to the builder
13. Loss assessors fee
14. Compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Turning now to each  issue mentioned  above.
1. legal  costs of the proceedings  against  B
Mrs F didnt  pay the builders final invoice because she was unhappy with the standard  of 
the repairs, arguing the work was incomplete and defective. This resulted in the builder  
commencing court proceedings against Mrs F for unpaid invoices, interest  and costs.  Whilst 
AXA paid the judgment sum to B, Mrs Fs believes AXA is responsible for her legal costs.
In property insurance claims its not uncommon  for issues to arise concerning  the work 
undertaken by contractors  and, generally,  the insurer is responsible  for the standard  of the 
work. 
Even though  AXA had accepted the claim and undertaken to pay for the repairs,  Mrs F 
signed a JCT with B. This meant, when B pursued payment of the unpaid  invoices, they 
claimed against Mrs F, not AXA. The main question here is whether, even though  the JCT is 
between Mrs F and the builders, AXA was responsible for the quality of the repairs,  and for 
paying for them. Im satisfied our service has already decided in 2015 it was - the existence 
of the JCT didnt mean AXA no longer had these obligations under the insurance contract. 
Whilst I understand AXA is now saying the 2015 decision was incorrect  in some  of its 
findings, that decision is final and still stands. As a result,  the findings made therein arent 
Ref: DRN02357096something were now able to revisit. 
Following on from the findings  in the 2015 decision, if AXA had done  what it was required to 
do under  the terms of the insurance  contract, Mrs F wouldnt have been a party  to the JCT. 
However, it doesnt automatically follow from this that AXA is responsible for all the legal 
costs Mrs F incurred  as a result of those proceedings. Ill explain why.
AXA says  supported by schedules and records  that it paid more than £19,000 to Mrs Fs 
loss assessor for the balance of the works done by B that it was responsible  for under the 
insurance contract.  It says this was in accordance with what  Mrs F had asked it to do and 
the payment was going to be withheld until the works had been completed satisfactorily. 
When she first complained to our service in 2014, Mrs F said after the proposed final  
certificate had been sent to her, this is what she did: 
I took legal  advice.
I arranged a site meeting  13 May 2013 to try to resolve  matters.
I instructed AXA to cancel  the mandate with [B]
Taking this into account, Mrs F had decided not to pay B and she told AXA not to either. She 
might not have expected B to issue court proceedings. But, even at that stage, she couldve 
mitigated her loss. Mrs F could have, for example, instructed her loss assessor to pay the 
final invoice payment received from AXA onto B or to their solicitors to hold in escrow 
pending resolution of the works  Mrs F was unhappy with. Mrs F didnt do this and instead  
issued a substantial  counterclaim  against B, mostly  comprising liquidated damages. 
I agree  most of the counterclaim   nearly  £150,000 - wasnt for something that AXA would 
have benefitted  from and it shouldnt fairly be expected to pay the costs relating to it. Further,  
this part of the counterclaim was dismissed by the judge.
I accept Mrs F was probably entitled to get some  legal advice on her position  here when the 
proceedings were  issued  as the party to the JCT and AXA would be responsible  for those 
costs. But I have no doubt her determination  to claim liquidated damages and her actions in 
the proceedings increased the costs significantly.  
In a situation like this, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable for me to ask AXA to pay all her 
legal costs in this matter as shes  asked.  Nor would  it be possible for me to say what  might  
be an appropriate amount for AXA to pay, if any. I say this taking into account all of the 
circumstances above as well as noting  the solicitors acting in the litigation against  B were 
the subject of an intervention by the Solicitors Regulation  Authority.  This was due to 
improper accounting and failing to comply with the solicitors accounting rules  and their legal 
obligations. I note Mrs F has mentioned payments  she made  to her solicitor  werent  passed 
on and she had to pay them  twice so Im satisfied  the misconduct of the firm may have had 
an impact in this matter. 
It follows that I dont uphold the part of Mrs Fs complaint that AXA should pay the legal costs  
of the proceedings against  B. 
2. legal  costs of the proceedings  against  R and contents shortfall
In October  2015, our ombudsman concluded AXA should pay Rs invoice to allow the 
release of Mrs Fs belongings. But R started  proceedings against  Mrs F as a result of unpaid  
Ref: DRN02357097invoices for storage and repair. In response, Mrs F sought an injunction against R on the 
basis it was withholding her goods  and threatening to sell them  at auction. She used  a 
solicitor to help her to secure her things  and incurred significant legal costs   more than 
£24,000. Shes since argued AXA didnt  pay the storage costs itd been required to pay as a 
result of the 2015  decision  and, therefore, it should reimburse her legal costs of the 
proceedings against R.
AXAs said its not prepared to pay the legal  costs because  it paid the money direct to Mrs F 
and her loss assessor.  It said that because the payment wasnt forwarded  to the storage 
company it shouldnt be responsible for any legal  costs  Mrs F incurred in her efforts  to 
recover her possessions.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Fs complaint that there was no payment by AXA of Rs 
costs, and consequently further loss arising from the non-payment. Having done so, I dont 
uphold her complaint  point about this. This is because Ive seen the following evidence from 
the file.
payment of £4,500 
A screenshot to support that a BACS payment  was made to the loss assessor in the 
amount of £4,500. 
In correspondence  with AXAs agent in late 2013 and early 2014, Mrs Fs loss 
assessor says upon [Mrs F's] direction we can either part settle the accounts from 
[R] or pass the monies to her or her Solicitor. AXAs agent  confirms the money  will 
be sent over in settlement of the contribution towards [Rs] costs  and the loss 
assessor confirms we have received £4,500  on account and I have passed  this to 
[Mrs Fs] Solicitor to deal with [R] accordingly. 
payment of £3,217.22
A screenshot to show a cheque  was sent to Mrs F in the amount of £3,217.22 in 
December 2015  for which  Mrs F confirmed  receipt and referred  to as a payment for 
[Rs] invoice. 
Having considered the evidence of the payments, I accept AXA paid the storage costs of R 
to Mrs F and her loss assessor. The fact the money  wasnt passed to R isnt AXAs  
responsibility. So, any money Mrs F spent trying  to recover her things and defending the 
proceedings started by R for these costs to be paid wouldnt be something AXA is 
responsible for. I therefore dont uphold her complaint on this issue.
Ive also considered Mrs Fs comments the contract was with AXA,  and the invoice was 
addressed to AXA, so it shouldnt  have  expected  her loss assessor to make the payment. 
Whilst I agree this is usually the position,  the correspondence is clear  about what the money 
was for when it was sent to her loss adjuster. In these circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to suggest that AXA is responsible where this money  wasnt  passed on to R. 
contents shortfall
Following the previous  provisional decision, Mrs F says shes due the balance  of the 
contents payment  of £4,000 and a further  £4,500 if our service  thinks this amount  was for 
Rs costs rather than contents.
In so far as this relates  to a shortfall in the contents payment, it has already been dealt with 
Ref: DRN02357098in a previous decision  of this service when the complaint wasnt upheld.  So this isnt 
something I can consider  here. 
In relation to the point Mrs F makes  that shes due a further  £4,500 if our service  considers 
the £4,500 paid was for Rs costs  rather than contents, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. The 
correspondence outlined  above and on the file between the parties  and their representatives  
is clear - the payment is for Rs costs and so I see no reason to suggest there would be a 
further amount  due under contents. 
3. items damaged  or not returned from storage 
AXAs offered to pay Mrs F £6,419 for items  that were lost or damaged  in storage  and she 
said she would accept  that, provided it included  interest from 13 January 2011.  AXA didnt 
agree interest was due. 
I agree  with AXA - interest isnt due on the payment as Mrs F hasnt lost out financially and 
interest generally is discussed in some further  detail later in this provisional decision. 
4. defective works
The issue  of outstanding or defective work is related  to the standard  of the repairs. This is an 
issue that was previously considered and Mrs Fs complaint was upheld by our ombudsman 
in 2015. Mrs F has since submitted a surveyors report  dated August 2018 detailing  
outstanding items which she says are related to the claim and havent previously been  
considered by this service. AXA says some of the defective work fell outside the insurance 
contract. Ive also seen  evidence that:
-there were three phases to the rectification work and final certificates were issued by 
Mrs Fs surveyors  in Summer  2018 in relation to phases one and two; and
-from the three  phases  of works  and the scope of works Mrs Fs surveyors were  
instructed on, this has all been dealt with.
Its clear there has been, for a significant  period of time, a continuing  dispute  about the 
works AXA was required  to undertake to discharge  its obligation under  the insurance  
contract and whether it has adequately  done  so. Recently, Mrs F has told our service there 
are still defective works which are outstanding  which she says are close  to £10,000 in value.  
However, in light of the evidence provided  and the time since  it was compiled, it is difficult to 
tell from the evidence which items still need  to be remedied and who is responsible  for them.  
Its also become apparent, through the 10 years  this claim has been ongoing and the various  
issues raised, the relationship between both parties  has broken down. Mrs F doesnt  trust 
AXA to carry out the works without further supervision, various events which have  occurred 
have frustrated AXAs ability to complete  the repairs and the costs  have  spiralled. So, to 
bring it to a close for both parties,  its my recommendation the parties follow  the following 
steps to get to a point where the costs of any remaining insurance claim related work  is 
quantified. Once this has been  done, I recommend that AXA should  then pay Mrs F a cash  
settlement in lieu of any further repairs. This would  bring AXA and Mrs Fs involvement in 
this matter to a close and Ive outlined below the steps they should follow to do this.
1.AXA must find three suitably qualified independent surveyors  and give a list to Mrs F 
within 14 days of her accepting this decision and AXA agreeing to this 
recommendation (whichever is later). All three surveyors must have confirmed 
Ref: DRN02357099theyre independent and would be willing to comply with the timetable outlined  below.
2.Mrs F must confirm to AXA which one from this list she would agree to being 
appointed. This must be communicated to AXA within 7 days of the list being sent to 
her. If she doesnt respond in time, AXA may appoint its own choice from the list.
3.The surveyor is to be appointed as a single joint expert to assess:
a.Whether theres any remaining insurance claim related work to be done.  
b.If so, the costs of those works  at commercial/publicly available  rates.  
4.When instructing the expert, AXA must send them the following:
a.original loss reports evidencing the damage  caused by the storm in 2011  with 
photographs;
b.copy policy schedule;
c.a copy of Mrs Fs report from August 2018;  
d.AXAs representations in the matter  (limited  to no more  than 6 sides of A4 in 
font 11 arial); and 
e.any report(s) AXA has obtained  which  would  assist  the expert.
5.A copy of the instructions must also be sent to Mrs F at the same time. She will have 
7 days from the date of the instructions being sent to her to:
a.send the expert and AXA a copy of her representations  in the matter (limited 
to no more than 6 sides of A4 in font 11 arial); and 
b.any further report(s)  since August 2018  that Mrs F has obtained which  would 
assist the expert.
6.If either party sends  the expert additional  material not set out above, the expert  may 
disregard this.
7.The expert must inspect the properties  as they are now within 21 days  of 
appointment. 
8.Within 14 days of inspecting the properties, the expert will report to the both parties 
with a copy of the draft report.  
9.Within 7 days of the report being sent to them,  the parties  may put written questions  
to the expert.  
10.Within 21 days  of the report being  sent to them, the expert will answer any questions 
raised and issue  their final report.  
11.Both parties  will be bound by the findings  of the experts report.  
12.The expert must send copies of all correspondence to each party,  ensure that both 
parties or their advisers are present for any discussions and that all communications  
are recorded. 
13.The costs  of the jointly appointed surveyor are to be covered by AXA. 
14.Within 21 working days  of the experts final report being sent to the parties, AXA 
should pay the cash settlement sum recommended therein. No interest is due on this 
sum unless AXA doesnt pay it by the deadline  after which  simple  interest  will accrue 
at 8% from the day after the deadline for AXA to pay until the date payment is made.
15.Noting the current  restrictions caused by the pandemic,  either party can request a 
reasonable extension to the above deadlines  where they  or the expert  is unable  
to comply with them. A request for an extension of time should be sought  in advance, 
with reasons and a proposed deadline. Any consent sought is not to be unreasonably 
withheld.
The costs  of defective work in phase  1 and 2
Mrs F also says shes owed money  from when she paid for defective work in phase 1 and 2 
to be put right which AXA refuses  to pay or will only cover a percentage of. However, Mrs F 
hasnt been able to send  our service sufficient evidence which would allow  me to be satisfied 
as to what was paid and that it more likely than not related  to defective works carried out as 
Ref: DRN023570910part of the claim which  AXA is liable for. Its my view this matter has been ongoing for such  a 
long time that, if such evidence were available, it wouldve been provided to us by now.
It follows I dont uphold  Mrs Fs complaint  point  that AXA should  pay Mrs F the cost of 
putting defective work in phase  1 and 2 right.
5. Loss of rental income  
Mrs F believes AXA is responsible for lost rental  income on the holiday cottages from 2012 
onwards. 
In 2011, AXA paid Mrs F up to the policy limit of £25,000 for lost rent. The previous decision 
in 2015 considered whether AXA was liable to pay more than the policy limit. However, the 
ombudsman found  that AXA had acted  reasonably  in applying the policy  limit. In so far as 
Mrs Fs request for further loss of rent payments  relates  to the time it took to complete the 
works, this matter has already been covered in the previous decision and isnt something  I 
could now consider.
However, generally speaking, where works  have  been defective  and further  works are 
needed to put things  right, the insurance  company would be responsible  for any lost revenue  
during this further period  of works,  even  if the policy limit has been  exhausted.  This is 
because its responsible for the actions of the firm it appoints to do the work.
Between 2016 and 2017, AXA made several payments for lost rent of more  than £33,000  in 
total. Mrs F believes  she is owed more than this and has provided information relating to the 
income she received  from each  of her rental properties from 1994 to 2012.  However,  shes 
failed to quantify her claim for lost rental income, and the figures shes provided dont show 
any significant loss over and above  that which AXA has already paid. Even if she was able 
to provide this, shed  also need to provide sufficient evidence that the loss was caused  by 
the further works which were AXAs responsibility.  I say this bearing in mind the impact of 
any loss of business due to other factors, such as seasonal irregularities and the current 
pandemic and any relief, payments or support  Mrs F has received as well as the works she 
carried out. Further, I havent seen any evidence that Mrs F has made  reasonable efforts to 
mitigate the impact  on her of these works. 
As Ive explained previously in relation to other claims  by Mrs F, its my view this matter has 
been ongoing for such a long time that, if such evidence were available,  it wouldve been 
provided to us by now.
As theres  no evidence  of a loss here, it follows I dont uphold this part of Mrs Fs complaint.
In the legal proceedings against  B, Mrs F counter-claimed for liquidated  damages  of nearly 
£150,000. But the claim was rejected on the basis that there had been a shared assumption 
between the parties  that the liquidated damages  clause would no longer apply. She says this 
is something our service should now require AXA to pay.
The issue  of liquidated  damages was resolved during the previous court  proceedings in so 
far as this related to the JCT between Mrs F and the builder. So, whilst I can consider 
whether AXA is liable for this amount, it wasnt a party to the JCT and Mrs Fs claim for it 
was denied in court. Any penalty clause in the JCT for late completion by B which  was held 
to no longer apply  isnt something AXA should  be liable for in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN0235709116. Loss of rental income  whilst repairs are being done to correct  the defective  works 
under point 4
Mrs Fs also said she wants AXA to reimburse her for lost revenue whilst repairs are being  
done to correct the defective works under  point  4. But this isnt something thats happened 
yet nor has AXA had an opportunity  to consider a claim  for it. This would need to form the 
basis of a separate claim to AXA should there be further works and then a complaint if she 
was unhappy  with how this was handled.  However,  any such  claim would likely need  to 
overcome the same issues outlined above at point 5. Id also take the opportunity to remind 
Mrs F of her duty to mitigate any losses in advance  of any further  works.
7. Damaged carpets
AXA has already  paid Mrs F more than £1,110  for the cost of replacing the damaged carpets  
in 2018. As theres no evidence of a loss here, I dont agree it needs to add any interest to 
that payment.  It follows I dont uphold this part of Mrs Fs complaint.
8. Fitted furniture damaged by the works
Its not clear from the file in this matter if the works for decoration (the correspondence refers 
to sanding and staining the salvaged fitted wardrobe units, and gloss  to doors and a date of 
26 November 2016) were  in lieu of AXA paying for the fitted wardrobes. 
As theres  no evidence  of a loss here due to the limited information on our files, I dont 
uphold this part of Mrs Fs complaint.
9. Location of underground pipes
I understand Mrs F is concerned about the location of the underground  drainage  pipes. But I 
cant reasonably  ask AXA to undo  work  it has done  based on the potential  for contamination 
should a leak occur from the oil tank. Mrs F hasnt given us any expert evidence that it poses 
a health or other risk or was in breach of relevant  regulations  at the time.  It follows I dont 
uphold this part of Mrs Fs complaint.
10. Central stove and heating  system
Mrs F had also explained  that AXA had been due to reinstate  her central  heating  stove. 
However, she acknowledged a payment of £9,794.95  towards this but says the estimate 
amounted to £12,445.20 (including  VAT) although  we dont have any invoices to support this 
amount.
AXA sent us a report from the loss adjuster which states the relevant OFTEC expert  had 
been paid directly. The same report confirmed the amount of £8,683.20 including  VAT 
should conclude  this issue. Ive also been  sent email communication  Mrs F had with AXA in 
October 2018 where this amount was accepted by her for the oil stove and flue along with 
£1,111.75 for carpet bringing  the total amount  paid to £9,794.95. Ive also seen emails in late 
October 2018 which confirm the payment was made  by BACS to Mrs F.   
So, based  on the evidence, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint there is a further sum due to her 
in relation to the central stove and heating.
11. The offer made for the heating (electricity) cost as a result  of 10 above  needs to be 
Ref: DRN023570912increased
Mrs F had also said her heating bills increased  as a result  of AXAs  failure to pay for the 
central heating stove to be reinstated. AXA previously  agreed a settlement of £2,000  for 
electricity costs and says it paid this to Mrs F in April 2016. 
As theres  no evidence  of a loss here above and beyond the payment AXA paid to Mrs F in 
April 2016, I dont uphold  this part of Mrs Fs complaint.
12. Interest on payments to B
Payments made to B in 2011
Mrs F says AXA owes her money that shed paid to the builders  in 2011. AXA disputes this. 
As has previously been explained, because B had been doing  work for Mrs F, there would 
need to be evidence - not only that money was paid, but also that the money paid related to 
work done as part of the claim.
Ive considered the further arguments  Mrs F has made in respect  of money  she paid to B 
before the work was put out to tender  in 2011. However, Mrs F hasnt been able to send our 
service sufficient or persuasive  evidence which would allow me to say what was paid and 
that it more likely than not related to the claim which AXA is liable for. 
In particular, Ive considered some invoices from 2011 which  suggest  work was invoiced 
outside the JCT. Ive also seen Mrs Fs bank statement which  shows  a payment of 
£31,985.05 leaving her account on 17 February 2011. Mrs F says this was payment to B in 
advance for works carried out from 13 January 2011. But I cant  make AXA pay anything  
without evidence that the money was paid to the builders and what it was for. Significantly, 
the invoices Ive seen for the relevant period dont amount to £31,985.05 and there  are no 
receipts. 
Its my view this matter  has been  running  for such a long time, if such evidence  were 
available, it wouldve been  provided to us by now. It follows I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint 
point that AXA should pay her for the 2011  invoices or interest  on the same.
Interest on the £15,000 interim payment AXA made  in 2011 to Mrs F
Ive considered Mrs Fs comments concerning interest on the £15,000 AXA paid to her for 
interim payments she says she made  in 2011 and before she entered into the JCT with B.
Im satisfied the interim payment was that, an interim  payment, rather than a gesture by 
AXA. As such, it should include interest,  but this would only be in so far as it related to 
amounts Mrs F had already paid and which AXA were liable for in connection with the claim. 
However, I dont consider  Mrs F has sent sufficient  or persuasive  evidence to show  the 
following:
the expenditure;
that it related  to the claim which AXA is liable for; and 
the date payment was made  by her.
I also note Mrs F has explained to our service  that, in 2011,  she paid the contractor up front 
all the time.  Whilst she recognised, in hindsight, this was a mistake there wouldnt be any 
Ref: DRN023570913interest due if Mrs F paid amounts in advance of them being due. This is because this isnt 
required and isnt something wed expect AXA to do if Mrs F hadnt paid them.  And I havent 
seen any evidence to support a claim that interest would be due on those invoices from the 
time they wouldve been properly due up to the point AXA actually paid them  (or would have 
paid them in the normal course of an insurance claim but for the contractor  being  paid up 
front).
In these circumstances, and taking everything Ive mentioned into account, I dont uphold 
Mrs Fs complaint that the £15,000 payment should attract interest  nor any payments made 
by her in advance in 2011. As Ive explained  previously in relation to other claims by Mrs F, 
its my view this matter  has been  ongoing  for such a long time that, if such  evidence were 
available, it wouldve been  provided to us by now.
Payments made to B by AXA as a result  of the 2013  proceedings 
Mrs F wants AXA to pay her interest  on the payment it made  to the builder following the 
judgment against her. I dont uphold this point. If interest was due on the payment, this 
wouldve been a matter for the judge in the related proceedings.  Even so, it wouldnt  be 
payable to Mrs F as the money was due to the builders.  
13. The loss assessors  fees
Mrs Fs argued  she wouldnt have had to appoint loss assessors if AXA had conducted the 
claim properly  and paid for the work  at the appropriate time. So she feels  AXA is responsible 
for these  costs. But I dont  see things  in the same  way. It was Mrs Fs decision to appoint  the 
loss assessor, and this wasnt something that was prompted by AXA or covered under the 
policy. I havent seen  any evidence of any special circumstances  which meant  shed needed 
a loss assessor. Whilst I accept AXA didnt appoint anyone  to manage the claim until 2011,  
Im still not persuaded there were special circumstances which meant she needed this 
additional representation.
14. Compensation
Mrs F was awarded £1,500 compensation by our ombudsman in 2015, so Ive only 
considered what  she can fairly be awarded after that point. 
Mrs F says she experienced  extreme stress and anxiety because of AXAs  handling of the 
claim and had to see a counsellor. She also spent significant periods without central  heating  
and had to use electric heaters as well as time dealing  with correspondence, attending 
meetings, court hearings and mediation. Theres also further works which  need  to be 
assessed.
I have to distinguish  between the distress  and upset that Mrs F suffered because  of the 
storm in 2011  and its consequences, which AXA isnt responsible for, with what  AXA did or 
failed to do that mightve added to that distress.
Ive also balanced  this with Mrs Fs conduct throughout this claim and the impact this had on 
increasing the distress  and inconvenience  she experienced. This includes, for example, her 
failure to pass on the balance  of the fee for B which ultimately led to the issue  of 
proceedings against her. I have  also considered  that AXA has paid more  than it shouldve 
needed to. It paid more than £78,000 against  an original final invoice of £23,600. This 
discharged a significant liability that Mrs F was responsible for as a result of the judgment  
Ref: DRN023570914issued in the proceedings between her and B and isnt something I feel should be 
disregarded here.
Ive taken into account the significant correspondence in this matter and where the evidence 
is limited, the evidence has not been provided or the explanation given has altered over 
time. Ive also thought  about the litigation with B as well as the advice Mrs F received that 
the costs of proceeding with her litigation against  R was likely to outweigh  the value  of any 
goods recovered and damages.
Ive thought about this very carefully  and I just dont  think itd be fair or reasonable for me to 
make a recommendation of a compensatory payment to Mrs F when taking  into account the 
circumstances of this case,  in particular those outlined above.
General matters
Since the 2015 decision, I note much  of what Mrs F has corresponded with AXA about is 
interest. I thought itd be helpful to explain the general purpose of interest and when this is 
due. If we uphold  a complaint, wed usually look to put the consumer in the position they 
would be in if things  had happened as they should. In some cases, we decide the consumer 
has been out of pocket  because of a businesss error. So, to compensate the consumer for 
not having the money available to use themselves  we can tell the business to pay interest 
on top of the money award, for the period  the consumer was out of pocket. Its for this 
reason some  of the awards given to Mrs F by our service have had interest  awards made on 
them. However, it wouldnt  be appropriate  to say that this gives Mrs F a right to interest on all 
payments made to her by AXA, particularly any made outside  of an award  or 
recommendation of this service. 
Further, I note Mrs F says AXA has set a number of precedents by making payments for 
certain things. However, I dont agree  that future liability for something  automatically follows  
a payment for that thing  or something  connected  to it. The Ombudsman  Service  looks  at 
each situation  on its individual facts.
Money paid by AXA which is unaccounted for
AXA says it paid more  than £19,000 direct  to Mrs F for the final payment due to B in January 
2015 and Ive seen evidence of this in the schedules sent to us. This is also covered under 
complaint point 1 above. AXA says this amount hasnt been accounted for. It has asked  this 
to be considered in this decision. As it paid B the judgment debt due under  the proceedings 
it has, in effect,  paid money towards Bs final invoice  twice  once in 2015 and once when it 
paid the judgment  sum of just under £80,000  in 2016. 
Mrs F needs to explain to AXAs reasonable satisfaction:
what the January  2015 payment was used for with evidence;  and
that it appropriately fell within Mrs Fs claim.
If shes unable to do this within  a reasonable time  which Id suggest  is no more  than two 
weeks from the date the final decision is accepted  I think itd be fair and reasonable for this 
to be deducted  from any further payments AXA are due to make to Mrs F, whether under 
this decision or at all.
I invited all parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
Ref: DRN023570915AXA has responded to say it considers the provisional decision to be fair on the whole. 
However, it takes issue with the reasonableness of appointing a new surveyor at this late 
stage and isnt willing to accept my recommendation under section 4 - Defective works. AXA 
says this is for three  key reasons:
(a)AXA has already  paid out significantly in excess of the financial cap and there are 
elements of the monies that have been paid out which, with the benefit of hindsight, 
need not have been paid. Therefore, AXA considers Mrs F has been adequately 
compensated;
(b)It is extremely unlikely that any surveyor will be able to determine whether there are 
any insurance related  repairs  still outstanding from a storm event that occurred some  
10 years  ago; and
(c)Mrs F's own appointed surveyors have  stated theyre unaware  of any outstanding  
snagging issues from the original event and there has been no indication from Mrs F 
as to what repairs are alleged to remain outstanding.
Mrs F has replied to my provisional decision  and, in summary, she says shes hopeful  my 
provisional decision will move her complaint  to an amicable  conclusion. She makes a 
number of further comments which I have broadly summarised below in my findings and 
taken into account,  in full, in my further  consideration  of this matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  
I acknowledge AXAs comments. But I also consider its difficult to tell from the evidence  
which items still need to be remedied - if indeed there are any - and who is responsible  for 
them. The surveyor for Mrs F - understandably - limits his confirmation of this to the works 
they were instructed to deal with. Further, the surveyors final certificates referred to in my 
provisional decision were  from September 2018  and yet, since  then, the parties  have been  in 
correspondence with each other  and our service about the works. This suggests it isnt the 
case that the 2018 certificates are evidence  that all the issues have been resolved. 
I acknowledge AXA say a surveyor  wouldnt  be able to determine whether there are any 
insurance related  repairs 10 years  after the insured event. However, if a surveyor was 
unable to determine this, its my view this would suggest there wouldnt be any cash  
settlement to pay.
So, whilst I appreciate AXAs indication it doesnt  accept the recommendation under point 4 
of my provisional decision - to pay a cash settlement in lieu of further repairs  (if any exist), as 
calculated under that section  it nonetheless remains my recommendation. As explained in 
my provisional decision, this recommendation is not part of my determination or award. AXA 
doesnt have to do what I recommend and its unlikely that Mrs F can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance.
Ive thought carefully about the additional  comments from Mrs F. In summary, Mrs F says 
she agrees for a surveyor and quantity surveyor to be appointed under point 4 or just a 
quantity surveyor and also sets out the terms of an offer she would consider from AXA.  
Ref: DRN023570916Responding to the first point, the redress proposed in point 4 of my provisional  decision is a 
recommendation and AXA dont have  to do what I say. But, even if they did, itd be up to 
AXA which three surveyors  to pick initially, as set out in the recommendation. As regards 
Mrs Fs suggestion  that a surveyor and quantity surveyor be appointed, my recommendation 
under complaint point 4 proposes  the appointment of only one surveyor,  not two. I do not 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to amend my recommendation at complaint point 4 
to recommend that AXA appoint more than one surveyor. 
As regards  the second point, whilst I understand Mrs F would consider an offer from AXA,  
the terms of the offer shed  consider dont  reflect  the redress  proposed in my provisional 
decision. As previously  mentioned, I have reached the same conclusions in my final decision 
as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. Although this doesnt prevent AXA 
from making an offer to Mrs F, its not something  Im making a recommendation for AXA to 
do. 
A number of the further points  from Mrs F are set out below, broadly under the headings 
used in my provisional  decision  from July 2021. 
When reviewing my provisional decision,  I note that in the summary  of complaint points, 
number 12 referred to Payments to the builder. This shouldve been the heading used at 
point 12 of my findings when I came to consider this complaint point. I shall refer to 
complaint point 12 as 12. Payments  to the builder  in this final decision.  I also noted  when  I 
listed the complaint  points  under  the heading complaint points in the provisional decision  
the headings for point 5 and point  6 were not in the correct order  such that point 5 should 
have read 5. Loss of rental income  and point 6 should have read 6. Loss  of rental  income 
whilst repairs  are being done to correct the defective  works. Finally,  under the section titled 
our award limit I say: As the complaint points in this case are the same  as those dealt with 
in previous decisions or stem from the same originating event  or claim (subject  to the factors  
in the bullet points above). The words same  originating event or claim should read as 
same originating event  and original claim as set out earlier in that section of the provisional 
decision. I also once  refer to Mrs Fs loss assessor as a loss adjuster and, at point 8 of the 
directions relating to the appointment of a surveyor, I say : the expert will report to the 
both parties... The word the should  be deleted  from these words so it reads  the  expert 
will report to both parties... For the avoidance of doubt, these are minor typographical errors 
and dont impact on the findings of my provisional decision or final decision. I simply set this 
clarification out here for the sake of completeness. 
our award limit
Mrs F says this complaint  came about because  the points raised were not a known issue  
when the initial complaint  was made  to our service. Even so, she feels  she shouldve been  
told at the outset this was an extension of the final decision she received in 2015. And she 
mentions the length of time it has taken, with no timeline or explanation.
I feel this shouldve been made  clear  to both parties  sooner than it was. For this, I offer my 
apologies to both parties. Nonetheless, the fact remains that the award  limit of £150,000  has 
already been exceeded  by the amount  AXA has paid to Mrs F as a direct result of the 
previous decisions  this service has issued on those  previous complaints. 
Mrs F says that the compliant points  raised in this complaint were not a known issue  when 
the initial complaint  was made to the Ombudsman Service. However, per my provisional 
Ref: DRN023570917decision, the complaint points in this case are the same as those dealt with in previous 
decisions or stem from the same originating event and original claim but either: 
havent  been  dealt  with by us previously  in a decision; or
were  specifically excluded in a decision  as something that needed  to reach  a 
conclusion before we could  consider it.
As such,  these complaint points are linked to the previous complaints and therefore the 
single award limit of £150,000 applicable to those previous complaints. Whether the 
complaint points were  a known issue or not they are all either the same complaint points 
raised in previous decisions or stem from the same  originating event and original claim 
(subject to the two bullet points above). All the complaint points raised in this complaint are 
therefore subject  to the original award limit which has now been exceeded.
Therefore, any amount  recommended  to be paid by AXA in this decision which  doesnt  relate  
to interest awarded on the amount payable under a money award or costs or interest  on 
those costs is a recommendation. 
1. Legal costs  of the proceedings  against B 
Mrs F talks about the loss of trust she felt in B and the JCT administrator and says she 
mitigated AXAs losses throughout by allowing it to do less than they were  required to do e.g. 
not putting back the dado rails and heritage  wallpaper.
Mrs F explains she had a number of traumatic personal things occur between  2006 and 
2010 and this led to her making some serious  and foolish decisions including  giving 
£130,000 to B to support  the business and ensure B continued working on her property. But 
she says she never  benefited from her connection with B.
I note these comments and understand this  Im sure we have all made decisions we regret 
or would change when considered with the benefit  of hindsight, particularly during periods of 
great stress.  But what Im considering here is to what extent AXA got things wrong and 
needs to put things right.
Having done so, my view on the outcome  of this complaint point about the recovery of her 
legal costs is unchanged and this is for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision.  
In terms of the solicitors  files related  to the proceedings  with B, Mrs F asks that these 
documents are returned. She says for AXA to review  these  documents,  it needs to apply to 
the SRA and seek approval  and she wont object to this. She suggests AXA can then 
appoint a costs  draftsman to review  the cost schedule and conclude  the issue  of payment of 
legal costs.
Whilst AXA may choose to do this, to be clear, I dont uphold  the part of Mrs Fs complaint 
that AXA should pay the legal costs of the proceedings against B and so this isnt something 
I would make a recommendation for it to do.
2. Legal costs  of the proceedings  against R and contents shortfall
3. Items  damaged/not returned from storage 
Mrs F says she doesnt know what she was expected to do to recover  her goods and refers  
to the confusion over the £4,500 and asks me to expand on Rs refusal to accept payment 
from the solicitor in 2015. But, as Ive said previously, I consider the correspondence  is clear 
Ref: DRN023570918about what the £4,500  was for when it was sent to her loss assessor.  And Rs refusal of 
money in 2015  doesnt affect  my decision on this point as it relates to proceedings when R 
was seeking to recover money due to it, which I dont hold AXA responsible for. To have the 
belongings released, R needed to be paid.  And Mrs F  directly  or through her agents   had 
the money from AXA to pay them.
Mrs F feels that if shed had continuing legal cover and AXA had accepted  it got things 
wrong with the JCT contract and the appointment of R, matters  with B and R wouldve been 
easier to sort out and this wouldve reduced  her claim and impact of it as matters wouldve 
been resolved  sooner than they were and without  escalation.  These  issues have previously 
been considered and/or  commented on by our service and so its not something I shall 
comment on any more than what has already been said in my provisional decision. 
4. Defective works
5. Loss of rental income  
6. Loss of rental income  whilst repairs are being done to correct  the defective  works
Mrs F says her contributions to the rectification of defective work is shown in the surveyors
schedules sent to AXA and our service.  Ive read all the documents relevant to this complaint 
point. However, as explained, Mrs F hasnt been  able to send  our service sufficient evidence 
which would allow me to be satisfied as to what was paid and that it more likely  than not 
related to defective works carried out as part of the claim which AXA is liable for. 
I note Mrs Fs comments about the rental income and evidence  she has supplied previously. 
However, my opinion remains as set out at point  5 and 6 of my provisional decision.
8. Fitted furniture damaged by the works
Mrs F says another company shouldve been appointed. She also says she can get a quote 
for the cost of replacement wardrobes.  However, theres still no evidence  of a loss here and 
neither a quote to install wardrobes nor her argument that another company shouldve been  
appointed are evidence of the loss itself.
9. Location of underground pipes
10. Central stove/central heating system
11. Additional heating costs incurred while without a central heating system
Mrs F says works couldnt be carried out because of the shortfall  in payment and the only 
way forward now is to change from an oil boiler  and oil tank to a heat pump. Also,  she wants 
the cost of extra electric  until the system  is in place. She feels its hard to quantify  how much 
extra has had to be paid but shed accept  a further  £2,000 for this.
As I explained in my provision decision,  the evidence on file shows  Mrs F accepted 
£8,683.20 for the oil stove in accordance with the estimate from a report  about the same.  
Theres also still no evidence of a loss for the electricity cost above and beyond the payment 
AXA paid to Mrs F in April 2016.
I note Mrs Fs comments about the location of the underground pipes being  in breach of 
buildings regulations. However, in the face of no evidence in support of this, my opinion 
remains as set out at point 9 of my provisional decision. As mentioned in relation  to other 
points, its my view this matter has been  running  for such a long time, if such  evidence  were 
available, it wouldve been  provided to us by now.
Ref: DRN02357091912. Payments to the builder
Interest on the £15,000 interim payment AXA made  in 2011 to Mrs F.
As explained in my provisional decision,  I dont consider Mrs F has proven her claim under 
this point. And its not for our service or AXA to obtain the evidence to do this for her.
13. The loss assessors  fees
I note Mrs Fs comments about the appointment of the loss assessor being necessary and 
that AXA agreed to pay the fees of the loss assessor and then changed its mind but I havent 
seen evidence of this. Even so, the current position  is AXA doesnt agree to pay anything  
further to Mrs F and my opinion remains as set out at point 13 of my provisional decision.
14. Compensation
Mrs F comments that compensation  of £5,000 was removed from the previous decision and 
made further comments to support her suggestion  that she should receive compensation. 
Shes told us about some  very difficult personal matters which she experienced, and which 
must have  undoubtedly had a significant impact  on her over the time of this claim and 
beyond. 
I thought about  this very carefully and, whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing  news  to 
Mrs F, those comments dont change my opinion on this issue.  As explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable for me to make a recommendation 
of a compensatory payment  to Mrs F when taking into account  the circumstances of this 
case, in particular those outlined in my provisional decision. And my provisional decision 
replaces any which  came before it.
Money paid by AXA which is unaccounted for
Mrs F has commented  on what the 2015 payment  was used for. Shes  explained, due to a 
discrepancy in AXAs  accounting, when it refers  to more than £19,000 being unaccounted  
for, its referring to two payments which amount  to £20,000. She explains these payments 
were to compensate  her for work she had paid with her own money  and werent connected 
to work done  by B.
Its not in dispute  the payment was made  to Mrs F by AXA. Instead, what has been 
questioned by AXA is how shed spent the money to which that payment  related.  This is due 
to concerns this is an amount which hasnt been accounted for and possibly one which  AXA 
has paid twice. Im not ignoring the evidence  Mrs F has sent to us recently on this point but it 
doesnt go to the issue  raised.
Taking everything into account,  its my opinion that Mrs F still hasnt explained (i) what the 
January 2015  payment was used  for with evidence; and (ii) that it appropriately fell within 
Mrs Fs claim.  I note she directs AXA to other  parties for clarification/information but its for 
her to prove this and I dont find that she has.
Evidence
I note Mrs F says in recent emails to this service  that she can send further documents if 
Ref: DRN023570920required. I consider  enough information  has been provided for me to determine the 
complaint and dont  require  any further documentation in order  to reach  my decision.
Also, I dont think its fair or reasonable to delay the issue of the final decision further. I 
consider that the gaps in evidence to support her case  have  been  clearly set out for Mrs F to 
consider and respond to. Our service has also asked Mrs F on a number of occasions to 
send to us anything else she wanted  our service to consider  before  the issue  of a final 
decision. This was done formally  in the provisional  decision of March 2019  and also in my 
provisional decision of July 2021.  Our investigator  also explained to Mrs F that she should 
send in any more  evidence that she wanted considered before the deadline in my provisional  
decision of 4 August  2021. 
Even so, as set out previously in relation to many of the complaint points, its my view this 
matter has been  running for such a long time, if such evidence were  available, it wouldve 
been provided to us by now.
Putting things  right
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and fair compensation should 
be calculated in accordance with what Ive said below.  
I recommend AXA Insurance UK Plc, in order to put things right, pays  Mrs F a cash 
settlement in lieu of any further repairs. The method of calculating  that amount is set out 
above in the extract from my provisional decision under point 4*. As explained above, the 
award limit in this matter  has already been  reached  and so this is a recommendation for AXA 
to pay these amounts   or take this action.
For completeness, AXA Insurance  UK Plc may deduct the unaccounted  sum from any 
monies due to be paid to Mrs F if no reasonable explanation is provided within 2 weeks of 
acceptance of the final decision.
To be clear, and as explained in the further provisional decision, this recommendation is not 
part of my determination or award.  AXA Insurance UK Plc doesnt have to do what I 
recommend and its unlikely that Mrs F can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. So, Mrs F may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to
withhold income tax from any interest,  it should  tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should
also give Mrs F a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN023570921my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. It is my recommendation that AXA 
Insurance UK Plc should take the steps  set out above to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0235709