K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains QIC Europe Ltd have  declined her home insurance claim. Mrs T is being  
represented in her complaint by JTS.
background
In March 2018 Mrs T was informed of a leak at her property  by her water  company. Mrs T 
called out JTS to inspect the property. They were unable to identify the source  of the leak 
but concluded the leaking pipe was plastic, which they said was hard to locate. They said the 
likely cause of the leak was point pressure and it was possible vehicular movements caused 
enough pressure  and movement to be a catalyst.
Mrs T made an accidental damage  claim on her policy. QIC contacted  their own specialist to 
inspect Mrs Ts claim. They said based on the information available,  the issues  described 
wouldnt be covered.  JTS were unhappy  the specialist issued their report  without attending 
the site, so in June  2018 a specialist attended the site. In their report, the specialist said they 
dug in the area the leak was detected but couldnt find the source or cause of the leak.  So, 
they still didnt  think the issues described  were covered under the policy   so QIC declined  
Mrs Ts claim.
Mrs T brought her complaint to our service. Our Investigator didnt think we should uphold 
Mrs Ts complaint. They said as the damaged  pipe hadnt been  located; there was no 
evidence to show the damage  has been caused  accidentally.
JTS didnt agree with our investigator. They said the water company reporting  the leak is 
evidence of accidental  damage.  JTS was unhappy a specialist was not sent initially  and with 
the standard of Investigation  carried out when they did attend - they also raised concerns of 
conflict of interest regarding QICs use of a specialist. 
JTS also pointed our investigator to previous decisions made by other ombudsmen in cases  
involving similar facts.  They said our investigators view contradicts this and information  
published on our website about how we handle cases.
The complaint has passed to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think QIC have applied 
their terms  and conditions  fairly  when  declining Mrs Ts claim, so I wont be upholding her 
complaint.
QICs policy says it will pay the costs of repairing accidental damage to underground pipes. 
The policy says QIC defines  accidental damage  as
sudden, unexpected and physical damage  which happens at a specific  time, was not 
deliberate; and was caused by something  external  and identifiable.
Ref: DRN08317602Its for Mrs T to show the damage to her underground pipe was caused in a way that meets  
this definition of accidental. But I agree the specialist shouldve visited  the property to carry 
out an inspection  before they determined whether the claim was valid.  But when they did 
attend the site the specialist, like JTS and the water company, were unable  to find the 
source of the leak.
JTS said it is for QIC to disprove Mrs Ts claim and have pointed  to general guidance we 
publish on our website  regarding our approach to cases. Id agree if JTS had shown  the 
exact nature  or cause of damage was accidental but QIC were disputing  this, I would expect 
them to provide reasoning to support why they think this. Or if QIC had accepted  the 
damage was accidental but was relying on a policy  term to decline the claim,  such  as wear  
and tear or gradual  damage,  then the onus would  be on QIC to show  this. But this isnt the 
case here. JTS have given their opinion  of what they think it likely to be cause  but havent 
provided anything  to show what the damage is so QIC have said the claim doesnt  meet  the 
definition of accidental  damage because of this.
JTS have said that the leak alone  is evidence of accidental damage.  But I dont agree. Its 
accepted theres  a leak and so there must  be damage to the pipe. But without knowing what  
that damage is, Im not satisfied JTS have shown it meets the definition  of accidental.  JTS 
have said that based on their experience,  they expect the damage to be caused  by point 
pressure. Theyve told us that sharp  materials underground could have punctured  the pipe. 
And theyve  pointed out that a section  of the pipe is below  a driveway regularly used by 
vehicles, another  is below a house, and another  is near a tree whose roots  have likely 
surrounded the pipe. But without any evidence of which section of the pipe is leaking  and 
whats caused that leak  I dont think JTS have  done enough to show  that accidental  
damage has occurred.
QIC said they will consider Mrs Ts claim if JTS are able to provide evidence  of the cause of 
the leak on the pipe. I appreciate JTS comments that the cost of identifying and repairing 
the leak would far exceed the cost of the work they recommended to correct the issue.  But it 
wouldnt be fair for QIC to be expected to accept  a claim without any evidence  of accidental  
damage for them to consider and as Ive said, I dont think  JTS have done this.
JTS made several detailed points  regarding a conflict of interest with QICs use of a 
specialist  and I want to reassure JTS Ive considered all of them. But Its not out of the 
ordinary for an insurer  to appoint their own specialist in cases such as these and Ive not 
seen anything that persuades me QIC acted  inappropriately in doing so. So, this doesnt 
change what I think.
JTS pointed our investigator to previous decisions made by ombudsmen in cases involving 
similar facts. But our service views each case on its own individual facts,  considering  what 
we think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  and we arent  bound  by our previous 
decisions. Nevertheless, Ive looked at the decisions  and information JTS has pointed to. Im 
satisfied the circumstances of each of those complaints are different to those of Mrs Ts 
complaint. So, I dont think those decisions are relevant.
my final decision
My final decision Is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Ref: DRN08317603Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0831760