K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complained because  Southern Rock Insurance Company declined  his motor  insurance 
claim and cancelled his policy.
Background
Mr A bought the policy online via a comparison website. As part of the sales process  he was 
asked what he used  the car for. He was given three options:
social, domestic and pleasure  only (SDP);
social, domestic, pleasure and commuting  (SDPC); and
SDPC and business use.
Mr A chose the SDP option and the policy was arranged on this basis. This was confirmed in 
the policy documentation sent to Mr A:
the policy wording  said This Policy does not apply  when  any car covered by it is  
Used for any purpose not permitted by the effective Certificate of Motor Insurance .
and
the Certificate of Motor Insurance said The Policy covers  Use only for Social, 
domestic and pleasure purposes.
Mr A had an accident where he hit another car. When he phoned  Southern Rock  to make a 
claim he confirmed that at the time of the accident he was driving  home from work. He also 
confirmed that he usually used his car to get to and from work. Southern Rock declined the 
claim on the basis of the above policy terms ie the policy didnt provide cover  for commuting. 
It also cancelled the policy. Mr A told us he bought a new policy  with a different insurer,  but 
he had to pay an increased premium because of the cancelled policy.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She felt Mr A was careless when 
he told Southern  Rock he used his car for SDP purposes rather  than SDPC.  As Southern  
Rock would still have  insured Mr A for SDPC purposes, she felt it was unfair for it to have  
declined the claim  and cancelled the policy.
Southern Rock didnt agree with our investigator. It said this case wasnt  about Mr A giving it 
incorrect information which induced  it to provide insurance when it otherwise wouldnt have 
(otherwise known as misrepresentation). Rather,  it was about Mr A choosing  the level of 
cover he wanted and, based  on that choice, cover  whilst commuting to and from work wasnt 
part of the policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms
The terms of the policy support  Southern  Rocks decision to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy. As Ive outlined above,  the policy documents clearly show that no cover is provided 
Ref: DRN03478382when the car is used  for anything other than social, domestic or pleasure  purposes.  And 
theres no argument in this case that Mr A was using the car outside  of these purposes  he 
was using it to commute  home from work.
The policy also states that Southern Rock has the right to cancel the policy  at any time by 
giving Mr A seven days' notice in writing where  there  is an exceptional or valid reason for 
doing so.
However, when deciding a complaint Im able to look at whats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, which might mean  that I depart from the strict legal (or contractual) position. 
Misrepresentation
When a consumer buys an insurance policy an insurer  will normally ask a range of questions  
in order to assess the risk posed.  By law1, a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care to 
not make  a misrepresentation to the insurer. In effect, a consumer must  take reasonable 
care to provide  truthful and accurate answers to the questions  asked.
Mr A was asked a clear  question when he bought his policy  about what  he used the car for. 
He was not asked what use of the car he wanted  cover for. So I dont agree with Southern  
Rock that the question  asked Mr A to select the level of cover  he wanted.  In my view, the 
primary purpose of the question was to ascertain from Mr A what he would use the car for, 
which in turn helped Southern Rock assess the risk he posed.  So I think  its appropriate, and 
fair in the circumstances, for the principles of CIDRA  to apply to Mr As claim and complaint.
Under CIDRA Southern Rock has to show that the misrepresentation was a qualifying  
misrepresentation. That means it has to show Mr A didnt take reasonable care when he 
answered the question. To avoid  any doubt,  there is no requirement for Mr A to show  that he 
took reasonable care. Southern Rock hasnt  considered the misrepresentation argument  at 
all, so it hasnt  provided any evidence showing that Mr A failed to take reasonable care.
In her assessment our investigator  referred to a friend helping  Mr A set up the policy and to 
Mr A not fully understanding the policy documentation he was sent. Our investigator also 
referred to Mr A (together  with his friend) not taking reasonable care. Ive listened to a 
recording of the call when  our investigator discussed the setting up of the policy with Mr A 
and it isnt totally clear what role Mr As friend played. But even if I give Southern  Rock  the 
benefit of the doubt on this issue, I still dont think it would have any remedy  under CIDRA.
Southern Rock also has to show that a qualifying misrepresentation affected  the terms of the 
policy it would have  offered. It has done this. But this is a very unusual situation  because the 
terms Southern  Rock would have offered would have been more advantageous to Mr A  he 
would have got more cover  (ie for commuting)  for a lower price.  So any misrepresentation by 
Mr A didnt affect Southern Rock negatively in terms of the policy it would otherwise have 
offered.
A qualifying  misrepresentation can only be deliberate, reckless, or careless  and its 
automatically careless if its not deliberate  or reckless. Its for the insurer to show  that a 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Southern Rock hasnt provided 
anything to show that in this case.  So if Mr As misrepresentation was deemed to be 
qualifying, based  on what Ive seen it would have been careless.
1 Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012  which  Ill refer to as CIDRA
Ref: DRN03478383The various remedies  available  to insurers under CIDRA are based on what the insurer 
would have done had there not been  a misrepresentation. When the misrepresentation is 
careless and the insurer would  still have  provided the policy  but on different terms, the 
remedy is to treat the contract as if it had been  entered into on those different terms.
In this case Southern Rock  would have provided  Mr A with insurance  cover even if hed told 
it that he would use the car for SDPC purposes  it. It also would have charged a lower  
premium for SDPC cover (compared to the premium it charged Mr A for using the car for 
SDP purposes only).  So under CIDRA the policy would remain in force  and Southern Rock 
would have to deal with the claim proportionately  (based  on the premium Mr A paid 
compared to the premium  he should  have paid) as per the terms and conditions  of the re-
jigged policy.  But that would  result in a windfall  to Mr A  as he paid more premium  that he 
otherwise would have done  so I think Southern Rock would have to refund any overpaid 
premium.
Fair and reasonable
Im aware that Southern Rock has argued that Mr A has breached the policy terms and it 
hasnt at any stage  sought to deny  Mr As claim or cancel his policy on a misrepresentation 
basis. However, as Ive explained above, whilst Im required to take into account the relevant 
law, ultimately my role is to decide complaints based on whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So Im not confined to only considering the arguments raised by either party.  
And, for the reasons outlined above,  Southern Rocks decision to decline the claim and 
cancel the policy is not, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I accept Mr As policy shows  cover isnt provided  when  the car is being  used for commuting. 
However, I dont think that changes  the fact he was asked a question  about use of the car 
and he made a mistake  when answering it. Mr A didnt  hide the fact he was driving home 
from work at the time of the accident. And the fact the premium  for cover including  
commuting was less suggests there was no financial incentive for him to not say when he 
bought the policy that he used the car for commuting.
Overall, for the reasons  outlined above, I conclude that Southern Rock treated Mr A unfairly 
when it declined his claim and cancelled his policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Southern  Rock Insurance Company to:
reinstate Mr As policy and remove any record of the cancellation from Mr As record2; 
and
settle Mr As claim subject to the terms and conditions of the policy  that would have been 
in force  if Mr A had said he would use the car for SDPC  purposes.
2 This will effectively remove the cancelled policy from Mr As record so he is free, if he wishes, to now 
approach his new insurer  to explain that and ask for it to refund any extra  premium he paid.
Ref: DRN03478384Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0347838