K820x#14Complaint
Mr P has complained that Retail  Money Market Ltd, trading as Ratesetter,  is holding him 
liable for a loan,  which  he didnt take out. 
Background
Mr Ps daughter purchased a mobile phone. To finance the purchase, she applied for a loan 
with Ratesetter, in Mr Ps name.  
Mr P said he didnt  know about the loan until his daughter fell into arrears with the 
repayments. Thats when  Ratesetter contacted him. However, he agreed to take 
responsibility for the repayments because the alternative was to accuse  his daughter  of 
fraud, which he didnt  want to do.
Mr P soon became  frustrated with Ratesetter because it kept chasing him for arrears, even 
though hed set up a standing order for the repayments. He asked Ratesetter to cancel  the 
agreement, as he hadnt taken it out, and refund all repayments which  hed made. And he 
complained that it had allowed a minor, with no credit history,  to take out a loan.
Ratesetter decided not to cancel the agreement.  
It said it had received an application for a loan to finance the purchase of a handset  on 17th 
November 2017  through  the mobile provider. The application contained his name, date of 
birth, mobile and landline  numbers and postal address.  Ratesetter said it carried out credit  
checks with two credit reference agencies against  his name, not his daughters  name. So, it 
was wrong for him to say that it had given  a loan to a minor. It was satisfied, based  on these 
checks, that the loan was affordable. 
It told him that if his daughter had applied  for the loan in his name and without his consent 
then that was a civil matter between them. 
With regard to the arrears, it explained that by 17 July 2018, there was 60p outstanding on 
the March 2018 payment and the April and May 2018 payments were fully outstanding. It 
said that because  Mr P had agreed  to take over the agreement and the account was in 
arrears, it would not be upholding this part of his complaint.
As Mr P didnt agree  with Ratesetters decision,  it asked  this service to investigate.
Subsequently, Ratesetter agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to remove  mention of the loan, 
and all adverse  information  relating to it, from his credit  file.
An investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She concluded  that it 
was reasonable  for Ratesetter to hold him liable for the loan. And consequently,  Ratesetter 
was entitled to chase him for repayments  and to report the arrears on his credit  file. 
She considered that Ratesetters decision to amend his credit file was a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators opinion. He is still unhappy that Ratesetter allowed his 
daughter to take out the loan and didnt notify  him. And he said its unfair that he should  be 
responsible for it. He told us he is a pensioner and cant afford it.
Ref: DRN03166722My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts  and the evidence,  
including the phone  calls which Mr P made  to Ratesetter. Both Mr P and Ratesetter have 
read the investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the 
basis of my decision. However,  I can assure Mr P that Ive read the file, including his 
comments and those  made by his representative  and Ive listened to the phone  calls.
Im afraid I dont have  good news for Mr P. Having reviewed the evidence, Ive reached  the 
same overall conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. I will explain  why.
loan application
Ive read the loan agreement. I can see it contains  Mr Ps name, date of birth, telephone 
numbers and postal  address. However,  the email address belongs to his daughter.  And the 
bank account  details are hers. But as the agreement was in his name, theres no evidence 
that Ratesetter  allowed  a minor to enter  into a credit  agreement with it.
Ratesetter wouldnt have known that the email  address and bank details  belonged  to his 
daughter this when  it received the application  and I dont think  this information alone  means  
Mr P didnt know about the loan.
In fact, I think theres sufficient evidence  that he knew about the loan before January 2018, 
when he found  out about the arrears.
Ratesetter provided  us with a list of text and email messages  it sent out after the loan was 
agreed. As the email  messages were  sent to his daughters email  address, Mr P wouldnt 
have seen them. However, I can see that it sent two text messages to Mr Ps mobile number 
on 20 November 2017 and 12 December 2017. The first text message  confirmed  that the 
direct debit was in place.  The second  message  was to tell him that the first payment would 
shortly be taken.
Mr P said he never received those messages. He has shown us screenshots  of the text 
messages which  he did receive. They dont include the text messages for November and 
December 2017  but then hes only sent us text messages  from 22 January 2018 onwards. 
He did receive these later texts. So, I think its unusual  that he didnt receive  the earlier ones, 
especially as they were all sent to the same mobile  phone number.
I think its more likely than not that he did receive the November and December 2019 text 
messages. In which case, he would have been  aware of the loan and ought to have raised a 
complaint then if he hadnt  taken out the loan. However, he didnt.
Moreover, Mr P responded to the text message of 22 January 2018 about a missed 
payment. In the call, he acknowledged  that his daughter had taken out the loan in his name. 
So, it wasnt  a complete surprise. He already knew about it, although I accept his daughter 
had probably spoken  to him before he made the call. 
Ref: DRN03166723However, in a later call he said he understood he was being  used as a guarantor  for the 
loan. Clearly, this isnt the same as being  the borrower, but I think I can reasonably  infer 
from this conversation that he knew about the loan and had consented to being held liable, 
albeit as guarantor, if his daughter couldnt make the repayments. 
Lastly, Mr P agreed to take responsibility for the repayments. I understand he said he agreed 
to do this because  he didnt want to accuse his daughter of fraud or report  her to the police. I 
fully sympathise with his feelings. I think most parents would react the same  way. But he did 
agree to make the repayments. In fact, he said hed arranged for his daughter to make  
payments into his account so that he could  make the repayments. But this was done  mainly 
because Ratesetter couldnt take payments from a third partys  bank  account.
I think its also true that many parents will agree to be responsible for a credit or loan 
agreement for phones and other devices for their children. So, I dont  think it would have 
been unusual  for Mr P to agree to the loan application in the first place.
In summary,  I consider that he knew about  the loan before  January 2018  and had agreed  to 
be responsible  for it. In any event, I dont think it would be fair to ask for a refund of the 
repayments when  his daughter has had the use and benefit of the phone.
Arrears
I understand that the loan has now been  repaid with an outstanding balance of £3.67.
Looking at the file, the repayment history  has been a confusing  one.
The monthly repayment was £34.70  thats  the figure on the loan agreement  - but it seems 
the initial direct debit order and subsequent standing order was for £34.30.
The January  2018 repayment was missed. Mr P agreed in the phone calls that he would 
take responsibility for the arrears  and future  repayments. 
Mr P agreed to set up a standing order for the future payments, starting with the February 
2018 payment.  The repayments were due on 19th day of each month.  (These were the 
contractual payments).  The payments due on 19 February 2018 and 19 March  2018 were 
collected successfully  by standing order. 
On 22 February 2018, he made an additional  payment  of £34.40  to clear the arrears, leaving 
an outstanding  balance of 30p. It seems  this was a manual payment by card.
On 22 March 2018, Ratesetter received an additional payment of £34.40 of which 30p of 
which was allocated to the remaining arrears of the January 2018 payment. 
Everything was up to date and the account  was in credit by £34.10.
However, on 26 March 2018,  Ratesetter received a direct debit indemnity claim from Mr Ps 
bank for the payments made on 19 February  2018  and 19 March 2018.  Mr P believed  at the 
time that Ratesetter had been paid twice in those  months, in error. However, as the records  
show, there was an additional payment in February to clear  the arrears.  The second  
payment in March  was probably made because Mr P was receiving messages about arrears, 
albeit for pennies rather than pounds.
Ref: DRN03166724The February and March 2018 payments were  returned to his bank and the account fell into 
arrears again. 
Mr P continued to make repayments, but the account remained in arrears and Mr P raised  a 
complaint.
Its clear there was a 30p discrepancy between the contractual repayment  and the standing  
order. This meant that every month there  were  arrears  of 30p. It must have looked confusing 
to Mr P when he received  text messages about  the arrears. And the recall of the February 
and March repayments added to the arrears.
However, I cant see that Ratesetter, was overpaid or had miscalculated the repayments. 
And whilst there were arrears  on the account,  it was entitled to chase Mr P. 
Ratesetter has now confirmed the loan has been  repaid.  And it has agreed to remove the 
loan, and any adverse information relating to it, from Mr Ps credit file. I think  this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this dispute.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr P, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0316672