K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that he couldn't use his Co-Operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) debit card in a local
shop. The bank had blocked his card.
background
On 5 August  2018 Mr R attempted to make a payment in his local shop.  He used the chip
and PIN of his Co-Op  debit card. But the card was declined.
He called Co-Op to find out why this was, as he had recently had several  issues  with his
Co-Op account in the previous few days. The bank explained that the payments had
triggered their fraud prevention measures, which led to his card being blocked. They
removed the block on his card. Mr R didn't  think this was reasonable as the payment was for
a low value, so raised a complaint with them.
The bank investigated this, and several other  complaints Mr R had raised. In their response
they said the terms and conditions  of the account  allow them to decline to make  payments if
they suspect fraud. They couldn't  provide a specific reason  for this, as they said it was
commercially sensitive  information.
Mr R referred  the complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked into the
complaint. She felt that the block had been  triggered  by a payment on 3 August 2018,  when
the account was overdrawn. She felt Mr R didn't have money available  to make the
transaction. She felt the bank had dealt with the issue as quickly as they could,  so didn't
recommend they do anything  further.
Mr R didn't agree with the findings. He spoke with Co-Op, who confirmed he had an
overdraft limit that hadn't been reached. The reason the payment on 3 August was stopped
wasn't related  to a lack of funds.
The investigator accepted this but didn't feel this changed her mind on the outcome. Mr R
still disagreed. So the case has been passed  to me to make  a decision.
On 23 December 2019, I issued a provisional  decision. In it, I said:
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what's  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'd like to assure  Mr R that I have considered all the evidence he has sent us and wanted us
to consider.
I can see that Mr R had had a number of problems  with his account  leading up to his card
being blocked. I've listened  to the calls from the day, and I've no doubt that this was
frustrating for him.
Banks have to strike a balance between allowing consumers to make payments without
interference and protecting them  from potentially  unauthorised use of their accounts. In this
case Co-Op monitor  accounts and may block transactions until the consumer can confirm
them as genuine.  There is provision for this in the terms  of Mr R's account.
In this case it seems there was a trigger point to block  Mr R's account. Co-Op  don't need to
Ref: DRN08122072explain why in detail.  This would be counterproductive as these types of measures are in
place to prevent  fraud. Giving detailed explanations could help fraudsters circumvent these
measures in future.
In this case I think Co-Op completing  security  checks with Mr R was reasonable.  They did
everything I would  have expected them to do in the circumstances. I can understand Mr R's
frustration with having to contact his bank to unblock  the card. But in this case  I don't think
Co-Op have made an error or provided a poor service. They were trying  to protect him from
potential misuse of his card. Because of this, I'm not asking them  to do anything  more.
I invited both Mr R and Co-Op to provide any further  submissions or evidence  by 6 January  
2020. Co-Op replied,  saying it had nothing further  to add. And Mr R replied, saying his 
complaint was about his debit card being  blocked, and that there was no issue  with 
insufficient funds.
As my provisional findings had addressed the fact that Mr Rs card had been blocked, and 
made no mention  of insufficient funds, I asked  Mr R to clarify his position. But Mr R didnt 
reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R nor Co-Op made any further  comments and provided no further  evidence  
that has changed my mind, my findings about  this complaint havent changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0812207