K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains that a freezer  shes been financing through a finance  agreement with 
Caversham Finance Limited,  trading  as Brighthouse (Brighthouse), has not been  of 
acceptable quality  and that the customer service shes  received has been poor.
background
Ms N has been represented  by her partner for much of this complaint but for ease Ill refer to 
Ms N throughout this decision.
Ms N took receipt of a new freezer in November 2017. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Brighthouse. But Ms N says she had problems with the freezer. In 
August 2018 an engineer was first called and since then it appears the freezer has broken 
down on four further occasions. Ms N says that in total she was without a freezer  for two 
weeks and that on one occasion the freezer defrosted and all the food in it was spoiled.
She also complains that on one occasion  when the freezer was being collected  for repair  the 
driver arrived  without a loan freezer and became  very aggressive  towards  her partner.
She complained to Brighthouse but was unable to resolve matters satisfactorily so she 
referred her complaint  to this service.  
Our investigator thought it was clear  that the freezer was not of satisfactory quality given the 
amount of replacements  and repairs  that had been necessary. But he noted  that Ms N was 
now happy with the product she had following Brighthouses most recent action in 
November 2018.  
He didnt think it was fair to expect Ms N to pay for a freezer that wasnt working  and he 
understood from Ms N that in total this was for about two weeks.  So he thought  Brighthouse 
should refund two weekly instalments to her.
He understood  that Ms N had explained  that shed  lost a freezer full of food when the freezer 
defrosted and he was persuaded by her account of events that this was likely. So he 
suggested that Brighthouse  should  refund £250 which  he thought was a reasonable 
estimation of the cost of the food likely to have been spoiled at the time.
He understood  that Ms Ns partner had complained  about the aggressive  approach  of one of 
Brighthouses delivery drivers but he didnt think it would be fair to expect Brighthouse to 
take any action  in this respect  as Ms Ns partner  wasnt one of their customers.  He did 
however, think it was clear a loan freezer hadnt  been supplied and that Ms N had been  
unnecessarily inconvenienced  by matters. 
He also noted  that thered been subsequent  problems with the freezer. A part had broken 
and Brighthouse  had initially agreed  to replace  the freezer again. But they later reneged on 
the deal and instead provided replacement parts. None of these were acceptable to Ms N as 
they were either, broken,  wrong or showing  signs of wear. 
Ms N therefore raised a further complaint and the investigator considered  the case again. He 
noted that Brighthouse did eventually  replace  the freezer but not until one had been rejected 
because it had a gash down the side. It appeared that the new replacement was now 
working fine.
Ref: DRN00786602He thought, in those  circumstances, it was clear Ms N had been further inconvenienced  and 
he therefore suggested that Brighthouse should  pay £500 to compensate her for the distress  
and inconvenience  that had been caused  overall.
Brighthouse agreed that some redress was necessary. They provided an alternative  offer 
which Ms N rejected so they therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms N has been  very ill during the time this complaint has been  with this 
service. I was sorry to hear of her illness and I do hope shes  feeling better. 
I know it will disappoint Brighthouse but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms N acquired her freezer  under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase  agreement 
is a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the freezer should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Brighthouse, who are also the supplier of 
the goods, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would  consider satisfactory  taking into 
account any description of the goods,  the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect the freezer to have broken down so readily 
and its clearly not proven to be suitably durable and was therefore  of unsatisfactory  quality. I 
dont think Brighthouse  are disputing that issue.
What is in dispute is the level of compensation. But I think  the investigator  got that about 
right.
the freezer contents
I think Ms Ns testimony has been persuasive. Shes not been  unreasonable in her 
allegations. I think her suggestion  the freezer was out of action for a couple of weeks seems 
reasonable given the catalogue  of faults  that have been documented. 
And if the freezer was out of action for more than a few hours I think  its quite likely that 
some food would  be spoiled. It seems  unlikely the freezer would be empty  and Ive read that 
Ref: DRN00786603Ms N has a family so that would lead me to believe the freezer  would be reasonably well 
stocked. In the circumstances I dont  find the suggestion that £250  worth of food could be 
damaged, to be unreasonable. Id not expect Ms N to be able to demonstrate through 
receipts what food was damaged as I think its reasonable to suggest  that food in a freezer  
could have been purchased over a prolonged period of time. So in the circumstances Im 
persuaded that Brighthouse should compensate her for £250 of spoilage.
distress and inconvenience
Theres been a lot of inconvenience here.  The background Ive set out above documents  a 
catalogue of problems each of which would  have entailed further phone calls;  some 
attendance for deliveries;  frustration at the inadequacy of the service  that was being 
provided and distress over the issues that were  arising.
It wasnt fair for Brighthouse to go back on a decision theyd made to replace the freezer  and 
I can imagine  this would have heightened what was already a fraught and troublesome  
issue.
In those circumstances Id agree with the investigator that a payment of £500  would be 
reasonable to compensate Ms N for the distress and inconvenience shes  been caused by 
this issue.
time without  the goods
Ms N has explained  that she believes the freezer wasnt available for about two weeks.  As 
Ive explained,  I think that seems  reasonable in the circumstances so I think  Brighthouse  
should provide  a refund of two monthly instalments  as it would not be fair for Ms N to be 
paying for something she didnt have use of.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Caversham Finance Limited 
to:
refund  two weekly instalments that have  been made towards  the finance agreement  
and add 8% simple interest from the date of the first fault to the date of settlement
pay Ms N £250 to compensate her for spoiled food
pay Ms N a further £500  to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0078660