K821x#15complaint
Mr P says that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt met his accessibility needs.
background
Mr Ps accessibility  needs mean that he uses telephone banking, and cannot use digital 
banking.
Hes previously complained about digital banking  being repeatedly discussed when he 
contacts RBS to bank over the telephone. And he says that continues to happen, despite 
RBS assurances that notes have been  added to his account to prevent it. Mr P says this 
situation is causing him upset and distress.
RBS has explained  that its noted  Mr Ps preferences on his account. But its call handlers 
are trained  to tell telephone banking  customers about other methods of banking. And that, 
together with the possibility of human error, means it cant guarantee that digital banking 
wont be mentioned  to Mr P again.
RBS has paid Mr P £50, and offered a further  £75, to resolve  his complaint.
Our investigator thought that one of the notes on Mr Ps account could be written in a more 
impactful way, and she asked RBS to update it. Overall, she thought  the £125 RBS had 
offered as compensation was fair.
As our investigator wasnt able to resolve Mr Ps complaint, it was passed  to me to decide.
my provisional decision
Ive set out my provisional findings below.
I explained that Id expect  to see RBS has taken steps to remove any barriers for Mr P, so 
that he receives the same banking service, as far as this is possible, as others  that dont 
face accessibility  issues. And looking at everything,  I thought  it had. Mr P is able to use 
telephone banking to operate his account; he is not required  to use digital banking.
I said I understood why the telephone banking experience can be distressing for Mr P, with 
RBS repeatedly discussing digital banking. But RBS has given good reasons why it cant  
guarantee digital banking  wont be mentioned to Mr P again. I saw that RBS had added clear 
instructions not to ask Mr P about  digital banking to his account. And that it had noted a 
warning message on his account that he prefers not to talk about  digital  banking.  I was 
pleased that RBS had taken some  steps  to reduce  the impact on Mr P. But I agreed with our 
investigator that the warning message could be more impactful  it notes a preference not to 
talk about digital banking, but I thought  this was very different from an instruction not to 
discuss alternative banking methods. Considering  the impact this matter  is having on Mr P, 
I thought RBS ought to have made the warning message clearer with the limited characters 
available to it. And although  I appreciated that this may not completely resolve the problem, 
because digital banking  may still be offered to Mr P on occasion, I thought that with a more 
impactful warning message, it would be fair to conclude that RBS has done all it can 
reasonably do to prevent the issue arising  again. 
Ref: DRN00367672I noted that in a telephone conversation with RBS on 8 April 2019,  Mr P said that he didnt 
want a call back to discuss his complaint several  times, and gave his reasons for this. Yet 
RBS letter  of 10 April 2019 refers to an earlier telephone conversation.  So it seems  that his 
instructions werent  followed. For this, and all the other upset and issues  Mr P has 
experienced in this matter, I thought £300 would be a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation.
I provisionally decided  that RBS should:
Update the warning  message on Mr Ps account  so that it is clearer and more 
impactful  I said it should let me know what it intends to update the message to in 
replying to my provisional decision.
Pay Mr P £300 for his trouble and upset in this matter  I said it can deduct  the £50 it 
has already paid.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P let me know that he accepts my provisional decision.
RBS replied to say that the warning message is recorded in a prefers box, designed  to 
record the name a customer prefers to go by. It has tried to manipulate  the box to alert staff 
that Mr P doesnt want to discuss digital banking. But there isnt a way to make  the message 
clearer or more impactful in this situation  it is meant to record a preference.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P can use telephone banking to operate  his account; he doesnt  have to use digital 
banking. So Im still satisfied that he is receiving the same service, as far as this is possible,  
as others  that dont  face accessibility issues.
I think RBS latest account instructions not to ask Mr P about digital banking  are clear and 
impactful. And considering what it has told me about the warning message, which  I accept,  
I think its fair to conclude that RBS has now done all it can reasonably  do to prevent digital 
banking being  discussed with Mr P. Mr P may still be offered digital banking on occasion. 
But, Im satisfied that RBS has taken  adequate  steps to reduce the impact on him. And, as 
I said in my provisional decision, I think RBS has given good  reasons why it cant guarantee 
digital banking wont be mentioned to Mr P again.
Its not disputed  that instructions couldve been  added  to Mr Ps account sooner than they 
were  RBS has previously paid Mr P some compensation  for this. It wasnt  until Mr P had 
been asked about using  digital banking again, and raised  another  complaint with RBS and 
this service that the instructions were made  as clear and impactful as they are today. Ive 
seen that there have  also been some service  issues along the way. From  what Mr Ps told 
me, this matter has been very troubling and upsetting for him. RBS cannot  fully resolve this 
issue for Mr P, so it is going to continue to impact him. But I think RBS couldve done more  
to reduce the impact on Mr P sooner than it did. And overall, I still think  £300 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation to bring  this complaint to a resolution in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN00367673my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc 
should pay Mr P £300 to resolve this complaint. It can deduct the £50 it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0036767