K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about the redress provided  by BMW  Financial Services  (GB) Limited  
(BMWFS) when they agreed to allow her to reject a car and terminate the finance 
agreement that funded  it.
background
Mrs S took receipt of a new car in September 2018. She funded the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. 
The car developed a leak and Mrs S returned it to the dealership  on several occasions 
between December 2018 and June 2019.  The dealership could not identify a fault initially but 
in June 2019 the problem  was identified and BMWFS  agreed  to allow Mrs S to reject the car 
and to terminate  her finance  agreement with them. They also agreed to refund one monthly  
finance instalment  as they recognised that although  she had completed about 9,000  miles in 
the car she had been without it for a short space of time.
Mrs S didnt think BMWFS had gone far enough. She thought  they hadnt taken account of 
the distress and inconvenience  shed  experienced and she therefore referred her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator explained that wed usually expect  a business to refund the deposit in such 
circumstances and to make a payment in respect of the distress and inconvenience  that had 
been caused. He thought the business  should have  allowed Mrs S to reject the car as early 
as January 2019 and he thought shed been quite inconvenienced  by their lack of action. So, 
in the circumstances, he thought they should pay Mrs S £350  in compensation.
BMWFS thought the compensation suggested  was too much but they did agree to refund 
Mrs Ss deposit. Mrs S asked  for us to take into account that shed had to take several  days 
off work to deal with problems with the car and that shed been treated like a bad payer  
rather than a customer whod had problems with a faulty car. So the complaint was referred 
to an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMWFS  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Theres no longer  a dispute about whether this car was of satisfactory quality but for clarity I 
agree with the business decision  to allow the car to be rejected. They had been  given ample  
Ref: DRN06453232opportunity to repair this new car and the relevant  legislation only allows them  one 
opportunity to do so before rejection should  be considered.
So I would agree with the investigator when he suggested that the business should have 
authorised a rejection as early as January 2019.  
Mrs S has been inconvenienced  by her frequent visits to the dealership  and by having  to 
pursue a complaint when it seemed she wasnt being taken seriously.  The photographic 
evidence alone  should have been enough to convince BMWFS  to spend  more time and 
effort identifying and resolving the problem. I can understand that she may have taken some 
time off work to deal with some of the issues she was having with the car and with the 
dealership. In the circumstances,  and taking all of this and the other problems  Mrs S has 
experienced into account, I would agree with the investigator that BMWFS  should  pay Mrs S 
£350 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Its usual in these  circumstances to also ask the business to refund any deposit  that has 
been paid and I see no reason to deviate from that here as Mrs S will need that money as a 
deposit on a new vehicle.
I can see that Mrs S has been  able to cover a little more than the pro-rata  mileage she 
envisaged when  signing the hire purchase agreement. So the leak hasnt had a significant 
impact on how much  use shes  had from the car. But when its been raining it must have 
affected her usage  to some extent. I think, in the circumstances, that BMWFSs  suggested 
refund of one finance instalment is sufficient recompense for the loss of use shes 
experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
allow Mrs S to reject the car;
end the finance agreement with no further liability  to Mrs S;
collect the car at no cost to Mrs S;
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund  one monthly instalment in respect of lack of use and add 8% simple interest 
per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs S £350 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to her credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0645323