K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Sainsburys  Bank Plc wont refund a payment made on her credit card 
to an online  ticket resale website (the website). 
background
In June 2017 Mrs Rs husband, Mr R, used her Sainsburys credit card to buy some  tickets 
to an event. She says he thought the tickets would be £56 each, but the cost for two ended 
up being about £340, which they found out when they received a confirmation email from the 
website. They contacted the website  for a refund,  but werent given one. 
Mrs R asked Sainsburys to help. She said the website hadnt shown the full cost of the 
tickets, and it had said it was the official  seller,  which it wasnt.  So she thought  the website 
had acted fraudulently.  
Sainsburys looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because  it 
thought Mr R had intended to purchase  the tickets, and because  it thought the full cost had 
been shown. 
Mrs R didnt think this was fair so she brought the complaint to our service. She added to her 
initial points  by saying  shed since received the tickets, but they had someone elses  name 
on them,  so she was worried they might not allow entry. And she said the tickets  had a face 
value of only £49 each. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. She thought it was most likely the full cost of the 
tickets was shown  before Mr R made the payment. So she thought the payment had been 
authorised. She didnt  think  the website not being  the official seller meant Sainsburys should 
have to refund Mrs R. And she didnt think there  was enough  to show  the tickets wouldnt 
have allowed entry if shed tried to use them. Overall, she didnt think Sainsburys had acted 
unfairly by declining Mrs Rs request for a refund.
Mrs R didnt agree. She said she didnt  want to spend money on train tickets to get to the 
event when she might not get in. And she referred  to a social media  group where people  
shared their poor experiences of using the website. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I issued a 
provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
This complaint is about Sainsburys, as Mrs Rs credit card account  provider. Its not 
about the website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within 
my remit. Im only considering whether  Mr R (on Mrs Rs behalf) authorised 
Sainsburys to debit  the account  with the value of the payment, and whether it should  
have helped with the dispute  with the website  in any other  way.
Ref: DRN05148602did Mr R (on Mrs Rs behalf) authorise  Sainsburys to debit the account  with the value 
of the payment? 
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These explain that a payment out of someones account  can only be authorised if the 
payer has consented to it. The payment service provider (here,  Sainsburys) must 
also show the payment  was authenticated. But its not enough for the card issuer to 
simply rely on the fact that the card and PIN, or the personalised  set of procedures  
needed to initiate a payment, were used;  that doesnt necessarily mean  that the 
payment was authorised by the account  holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because, very broadly 
speaking, under both the Payment Services Regulations and the account terms and 
conditions the account holder is liable for payments theyve  authorised  and the card 
issuers liable for unauthorised payments. 
For the payment  to be authenticated card details needed to be entered. Mrs R 
accepts Mr R entered the details on her credit card, and the order  went through,  so 
Im satisfied the payment was authenticated. 
Mrs R authorised Mr R to use her card. She argues, effectively, that Mr R cant be 
said to have consented to the payment being made (and therefore  to have authorised 
it) if she was charged more than she was supposed to be. She says he wouldnt have  
proceeded with the purchase  of the tickets if hed known  the final cost before the 
payment was made. Although  she acknowledges Mr R thinks the final cost might 
have been shown, she says he was in a rush because he thought  the tickets  had 
sold out and so wasnt paying  much  attention.
Ive seen the steps someone needed  to follow to buy tickets  on the website in June 
2018. The sales process, in brief, was as follows:
-The buyer chooses the event  and date they want the tickets for.
-The buyer selects how many  tickets they want,  and then chooses the tickets  
they want. The location (section and row) and price per ticket  are shown. A 
summary pops up, and to continue, a buyer  clicks Buy. 
-The buyer enters their personal  information. At the top left-hand side of the 
page, the number of tickets selected and the price per ticket  are shown. It has 
a note below  this which says Not Included: Handling  Fee, VAT and Booking 
Fee.
-The delivery method  is confirmed,  and at the top left-hand  side the number of 
tickets selected, the price  per ticket and handling fees per ticket are shown. It 
has a note below this which says Not Included:  VAT and Booking Fee.
-The buyer selects the payment method, and at the top left-hand  side the 
number of tickets selected, the price per ticket  and handling  fees per ticket  
are shown.  It has a note below this which  says Not Included: VAT and 
Booking Fee.
Ref: DRN05148603-The buyer enters their payment details (name  on card, card number, expiry 
date and card security code). At the top left-hand  side the number of tickets 
selected, the price  per ticket,  handling fees per ticket, and VAT and booking  
fee per ticket are shown.  Also included is the total price, in capitals  and in 
bold.
-The buyer completes  the purchase. In the centre  of the screen the number of 
tickets selected, the price  per ticket, handling fees per ticket,  and VAT and 
booking fee per ticket  are shown. Also included is the total price,  in capitals 
and in bold. The buyer then has to click, at the bottom of the page, to 
complete the purchase.  
Mrs R bought the tickets  in June 2017. I havent seen the full process from back then 
as screen shots  arent available to me. But I have seen screen  shots from August 
2017, October 2017 and March 2018.  These  show the process  from the start until the 
penultimate page.  On all these  the process  and pricing information  layout  is - to my 
eye - the same  as what I saw in June 2018. And Ive seen nothing  to persuade  me 
that the website  was materially  different in June 2017. So I think  the process  Ive 
described above is most likely the process  Mr R would have followed. 
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) issued a ruling against  the website last 
year. It said that the ad for the tickets (the start of the process where a buyer 
chooses the tickets  they want) didnt make  clear the total ticket  price including  the 
booking fee, and didnt make clear  the applicable  delivery fee, so it concluded that 
the ad was misleading. I can see why the ASA came to this conclusion. But I dont  
need to comment  on the ad. Instead, I need  to consider the information available to 
Mr R when he chose to complete the transaction. 
As Ive explained above, the full price wasnt shown at the start of the process. But 
from what Ive seen,  by the time a buyer was asked to input their payment details 
(which Mrs R accepts  Mr R did) the full price was shown.  And it was shown  on the 
final page before a buyer completes the transaction. I think  this must have appeared 
on Mr Rs screen,  as his order was placed. So I think the full price was available  to 
Mr R. And I think he completed the transaction.  
Overall, given my conclusions as to what I think - on balance - Mr R is likely  to have 
seen when he was on the website, I conclude  Mr R should have been aware of the 
value of the transaction to be made - and that it was about to be made - and 
therefore consented to and authorised it on behalf  of Mrs R. It follows  that I cant  
fairly and reasonably say Sainsburys wasnt entitled to debit the account on the 
basis that the transaction wasnt authorised.
could Sainsburys challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant,  as Mrs R 
does here,  Sainsburys  (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback.  Generally  we 
say its fair for a card issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, for example  where goods arent received 
or it appears  that the payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where 
chargeback has been  successful. But it doesnt necessarily follow  that Sainsburys 
Ref: DRN05148604should have attempted one here. What I need to decide is if, in the particular  
circumstances of this complaint, I think it should  have. But I dont think  Sainsburys 
couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs R didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given  the conclusions Ive already set out.
Mrs R is unhappy the tickets had a face value of only £49. I dont think  theres  a 
reason Sainsburys  could have used under the chargeback scheme rules to get 
Mrs Rs money  back on the basis that she was being  charged more than a tickets  
face value. So I think it was reasonable for Sainsburys not to challenge the 
transaction on that basis. Likewise, I dont think theres a chargeback  scheme rule for 
how a website describes itself (i.e. whether it suggested it was an official  seller). So I 
think it was reasonable  for Sainsburys not to challenge the transaction on that basis 
too.
Mrs R says she received the tickets,  but didnt go to the event because she thought  
she might  not have been allowed entry as the tickets didnt have her name on them. 
She referred  our investigator to the event organisers website, where the investigator  
found this warning:
Tickets from other agents may be fraudulent and do not guarantee access  to the 
event.
I understand Mrs Rs reluctance to spend  time and money travelling to an event 
when there  was a chance she might not gain entry. But this complaint is against 
Sainsburys, not the website. I havent seen anything to suggest the tickets were 
fraudulent. And Im not aware of Mrs R contacting the seller about her concerns and 
being told she wouldnt be allowed in. So I dont  think, with the information 
Sainsburys had available to it, it had a reasonable prospect of successfully 
challenging the transaction on the basis she didnt get what was ordered. So I think it 
was reasonable  for Sainsburys not to challenge  the transaction  on that basis.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how 
Section 75 applies  to the transaction. 
The transaction was made using Mrs Rs Sainsburys credit card. Under  section 75, 
in certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim  against  Sainsburys as she 
does against the supplier  (the website) if theres  been a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
My role isnt to decide Sainsburys liability  under  Section 75. Instead, as statute 
requires me to, I need to decide  whats fair and reasonable, taking into account  any 
relevant law, such as the Consumer Credit Act. 
Ref: DRN05148605For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place.  The websites terms and conditions  say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [websites name]  provides a service that allows  members  
who want to buy tickets  ("Buyers") to find members who want  to sell tickets 
("Sellers"). [websites name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual 
transactions are between  the Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the website. But that the website 
does provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the 
website says it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-
out process and covers  the cost of maintaining the [websites name] platform, 
guaranteeing tickets  and providing customer service.
So in effect,  there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr and Mrs R, 
Sainsburys and the website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets  
themselves. Instead,  the website provides a service.  The service  consists  of two 
main things - the platform and the guarantee. So I think the website is responsible  for 
how ticket information  (such as venue, date, time, seat location and the asking price) 
is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, its responsible  for providing  
replacement tickets or a refund if the seller doesnt  fulfil their obligations around 
supplying the tickets.  
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service 
provided by the website  must have a cash price of more than £100. In this case, I 
havent seen a breakdown of the amount  Mrs R paid. She was charged £340.35. Ive 
found - from looking at screenshots of a number of purchases through  the website - 
that the websites fee makes up about a third of the total cost. One third of £340.35  is 
£113.45. So I think its more likely  than not the websites  fee for its service in this 
case was more than £100. This means  I think Mrs R could have a valid claim under 
Section 75.
Lastly, for a valid claim Mrs R would need  to show a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the website. Ill address each of her points in turn here.
-the total price  was misrepresented. 
Given my conclusions above, I dont think the price was misrepresented or that Mrs 
R was charged more than she agreed  to pay. So I dont think there  was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the website about the price.
-the website  said it was the official seller
The ASAs ruling  referred to the website using a paid-for search  ad on a search  
engine and using  Official Site in the headline for a prominent musician.  So I accept 
the website might have  used a similar ad and headline for the event Mr and Mrs R 
were interested in. 
Ref: DRN05148606In Mrs Rs letter of 14 June 2017  she said:
He [Mr R] went onto the official [event organisers name] website and tried to get 
tickets. As you know this is hard work  in itself and includes  a lot of refreshing of 
pages. At last he was routed to [the websites name]  which appeared to be or 
certainly advertised itself as the agent  page for [event organisers name].
In Mrs Rs letter of 23 June 2017  she said:
In our case what happened was that we were  buying tickets for [event name] and 
when we finally managed to get through we found  ourselves on [the website] which  
advertised itself as the official seller so we didnt  think  any more  of it.
I understand from these  that Mr R didnt reach  the website through  a search engine, 
but was instead directed there by the event  organisers website. And I note the 
website itself doesnt suggest its an official website.  It says at the top:  
Were the worlds largest secondary marketplace  for tickets  to live events. All tickets  
are fully protected by our guarantee. Prices  are set by sellers  and may be below or 
above face value.
In this particular  case, given  what Ive said above, Im not persuaded the website 
made Mr R think  it was the official seller. I can see why Mr R might have thought it 
was given he was directed  there  from the event organisers website.  But that would 
be a matter to take up with the event organiser, rather than a misrepresentation on 
the part of the website.  
-the face value of the tickets was only £49
Mrs R says the face value  of the tickets she received  was only £49. I think - although 
she may wish to clarify in response to this provisional decision - that shes  saying 
here that she was overcharged.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  says a ticket reseller should provide certain 
information to buyers,  including the face value of the ticket.  From  screenshots Ive 
seen of purchases through the website, and from comments from government 
agencies and consumer  groups, it seems  the website didnt always  provide this 
information. And although Mrs R hasnt said whether this information  was available  to 
Mr R or not, I think theres a reasonable chance  it wasnt. But I dont think it matters 
in this particular  case. Ill explain why.
I accept that Mr R should have been  provided with the face value of the tickets before 
he agreed to buy them,  and that he likely wasnt. But I still need  to be satisfied Mr R 
would have acted  differently if he had been.  
Mr R was a willing buyer when he thought the tickets would be £56 each. It seems Mr 
R was very keen on getting tickets to the event, and £56 isnt significantly more than 
the £49 face value Mrs R has told us about.  So I dont think its likely  Mr Rs decision 
to make the purchase  (and enter into the contract) would have been different if the 
face value had been shown. I think he would have gone ahead anyway. It follows  that 
I cant fairly require Sainsburys to refund Mrs R because the face value  of the tickets 
wasnt shown on the website.
Ref: DRN05148607-The tickets wouldnt allow entry
It was for the seller to provide the tickets.  But as Ive already  said, the website 
provides a guarantee as part of its service. The websites terms and conditions  say: 
If You receive tickets from the Seller that are not the tickets  you ordered or tickets 
that are invalid and not honoured at the venue, we strongly advise you to Contact Us 
to report the issue.  Issues must be reported within 14 days after receiving the tickets 
otherwise this will no longer be covered by the [websites name] Guarantee.
It also says:
In the rare instance that a problem arises and the original ticket  Seller  does not 
provide You with the tickets listed for sale, [websites name] will, in its sole and 
absolute discretion, review comparably priced  tickets and offer You replacement  
tickets at no additional cost, or [websites name] will issue You a refund for the cost 
of the tickets.
So in effect,  if Mr R didnt  receive the tickets he ordered he could make a claim under 
the websites guarantee.  Im not aware of Mr R making a claim though. It follows  that 
the website cant  have breached its contract  with Mr R by not refunding him under 
the guarantee. In any case,  as Ive already set out earlier in this provisional decision, 
theres nothing substantive  to show there  was a problem with the tickets Mr R 
received. So Im not persuaded that, even if Mr R did make a claim, it ought to have 
been accepted by the website. So I cant fairly tell Sainsburys  to refund Mrs R on the 
basis of a breach  of contract by the website because she didnt get valid tickets.  
-Overall
Overall, I dont  think Mrs R has a valid claim under  Section 75 for either  a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, meaning  I think it was reasonable for Sainsburys  not 
to refund her under its obligations under the Consumer Credit  Act. 
conclusions
I have a good deal of sympathy for Mrs R. Its clear she feels strongly  that the 
website has acted poorly, and that shes lost out as a result. Ive noted what shes  
said about the social media group, which she found after buying the tickets. 
But as Ive said, I cant decide a complaint about  the website. I can only decide 
whether I can fairly require Sainsburys to refund Mrs R in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  think  
Sainsburys couldve successfully challenged the payment, or that it should have 
accepted a claim under Section 75. So I dont think I can fairly require it to refund 
Mrs R. 
Ref: DRN05148608my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs R and Sainsburys confirmed theyd received my provisional decision.  Neither  provided  
any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comments or evidence  I see no reason to change my mind. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0514860