K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, trading  as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave her 
loans that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss C took out seven  loans with UBF and details  of these  are shown below. The loans were 
repayable by one to three monthly  repayments. Loan 7 hasnt  been  repaid and has been 
sold to a third party.
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Number of repayments  
and highest repayment 
amountDeferrals
1. 29/4/2014 £175 1 repayment of £236.16 Two
2. 20/6/2014 £450 1 repayment of £607.28 Two
3. 16/12/2014 £200 1 repayment of £269.90 One
4. 13/2/2015 £300 3 monthly repayments   
highest repayment of 
£134.26n/a
5. 30/6/15 £300 3 monthly repayments   
highest repayment of 
£137.22n/a
6. 28/9/2015 £300 3 monthly repayments   
highest repayment of 
£131.39n/a
7. 5/12/2015 £350 3 monthly repayments   
highest repayment of 
£166.71Loan unpaid
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator initially recommended that Loans 3 to 7 should be upheld. He then issued a 
second view which he said had been issued in error. And he then issued a further view in 
which he recommended  that Loans  5 to 7 should be upheld. He said that by Loan 5, 
Miss Cs overall pattern of borrowing suggested that she had become persistently reliant on 
short term lending.
UBF provided a detailed response to the adjudicators initial  view.  In response to the 
adjudicators last view it said that this was still relevant. It also offered to settle 
Loans 6 and 7 in response to the adjudicators second view.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C 
and to UBF on 28 November 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id considered UBFs responses to the adjudicators view. Id said that some of its points  
were generic  so I didnt  intend to respond  to those points. But I said that I would refer to 
some of UBFs loan specific and other points raised  by it. I also noted that UBF had offered 
to settle Loans  6 and 7, but it wasnt clear whether this offer was still open. So I dealt with 
those loans in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN05862812I noted that when  UBF lent to Miss C the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that UBF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that UBF was required to establish whether Miss C could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Miss Cs complaint.
I explained that UBF had made a number of checks before it lent to Miss C. It had asked her 
for details  of her income and expenditure. Miss C had declared her monthly  income as 
£2,000 before Loans 1 to 3, 6 and 7, and £1,800 before Loans  4 and 5. Id not seen Miss Cs 
declared expenditure before Loans  2 and 3 but I could see her declared expenditure before 
Loan 1 was around £463 and from Loans  4 to 7 it ranged from £920 to £970. 
Ref: DRN05862813Id also noted  that UBF had checked Miss Cs credit  file before agreeing  to the loans and it 
had provided this service  with copies of its checks before some of the loans. 
Miss C had provided us with a copy of her credit report. This showed  that Miss C had a 
recent defaulted account with another lender around four weeks  before Loan 1. She also 
had a number  of other short term loans.  I was aware  that when a lender carried  out a credit  
search, the information  it saw didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a 
consumers credit search would and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see 
a small portion of a borrowers credit  file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I 
was also aware that not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same  credit 
reference agencies.  So, Miss Cs defaulted account and other short  term loans might not 
have been identified by UBFs credit check. So, this might have explained any differences  
between the information provided  by UBFs credit check and Miss Cs actual  situation.
Id noted that UBF had sent us its credit  checks before Loan  1. These were dated around six 
weeks before Loan 1. So they didnt show Miss Cs defaulted  account. Otherwise  I didnt 
think its checks showed any information which I thought should have caused  additional  
concerns to UBF.
The repayment amount for Loan  1 of £236.16 was relatively modest compared to the income 
that Miss C had declared to UBF. I didnt think the repayment amount was so large that it 
was obvious it wouldve  caused Miss C financial difficulty.
So given Miss Cs repayment amount for Loan 1, what was apparent about her 
circumstances at the time, and that this was her first loan with the lender, I didnt think it 
wouldve been proportionate for UBF to have asked her for the amount of information  that 
would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Miss C had provided  or the 
information UBF shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what she was saying.  So I didnt think UBF was wrong to give Loan 1 to 
Miss C.
But Id noted that Miss C deferred repayment of Loan 1 twice.  Miss C then took out 
Loan 2 on the same day shed repaid Loan 1. I thought this might  have suggested  to UBF 
that repaying the loan caused Miss C to need  to borrow again which wasnt  a sustainable 
situation. And the loan amount had increased substantially to £450. I thought  all this might 
have been seen as an indication of potential financial difficulties and should have caused 
UBF some  concerns. 
Id not seen UBFs credit checks before Loan 2. Nor had this service received any 
information about Miss Cs declared  expenditure although Id noted that UBF had said that it 
had asked Miss C for expenditure information before all the loans. I appreciated that UBF 
had asked Miss C for her income. But I thought Miss Cs repayment history on Loan 1 and 
the size of Miss Cs borrowing on Loan 2 were such that it wasnt  reasonable for UBF to rely 
on Miss Cs declared information. So Id thought this should have prompted UBF to do some 
additional checks such as asking Miss C for more information about her short term 
borrowing commitments.
Had it done so, UBF would have discovered that Miss C had outstanding short  term loans 
from at least three other short term lenders. Id seen those loans on Miss Cs credit  report.  
Ref: DRN05862814So Id thought it would have been  clear to UBF if it had done proportionate  checks that 
Miss C was facing problems managing her money  and unlikely  to be able repay Loan 2 in a 
sustainable manner.  So I didnt think UBF should have provided Loan 2 to Miss C.
Id noted that Miss C deferred repayment  of Loan  2 twice. Id thought this should  have 
suggested to UBF that Miss C might still be having problems managing  her money  when 
shed borrowed Loan 3 around three months later.  
Id noted that UBF had sent us its credit  checks before Loan  3. But these were  dated around 
two months before Loan 3, and so were not up to date about Miss Cs financial 
commitments.  
Id also appreciated  that UBF had asked Miss C for her income  and expenditure before 
Loan 3. But the information wed received  from UBF showed her declared  income  of £2,000  
and expenditure  of £100. Id thought Miss Cs deferred repayment history on both Loans 1 
and 2 was such  that it wasnt  reasonable for UBF to have relied on that information. So I 
thought this should have  prompted UBF to do some  additional checks  such  as asking Miss C 
for more information about her short term borrowing commitments. Had it done so, it was 
likely that UBF wouldve learnt that Miss C had no other outstanding short term loans. So, I 
didnt think UBF did anything wrong in giving Loan  3 to Miss C.
Id noted that Miss C again deferred  repayment of Loan 3 once. Again I thought this should 
have suggested  to UBF that Miss C was having problems managing her money when shed 
borrowed Loan 4 around two weeks later. The loan amount had increased to £300  although  
the loan was to be repaid over three months  with a highest instalment of £134.26. So Miss C 
was committing to make her repayments over a longer period than her previous loans. I also 
noted that Miss Cs declared income had decreased by £200 and shed declared a higher 
amount of expenditure of £920. Again I thought Miss Cs repayment history was such  that it 
wasnt reasonable for UBF to rely on that information. So I thought this again  should have 
prompted UBF to do some additional  checks such as asking Miss C for more information 
about her short term borrowing  commitments. Id noted that UBF had told us that it had 
spoken to Miss C before Loan 4 and it had gone through her income and expenditure. It said 
that shed declared  one fixed  loan and catalogue credit.  But I couldnt be sure it had asked 
her about  her short term borrowing commitments. Had it done so, it was likely that UBF 
wouldve learnt that Miss C had one other  outstanding short  term loan with a repayment 
amount of £112.  So overall I didnt think UBF had done  anything  wrong in giving Loan 4 to 
Miss C.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of UBFs lending history with Miss C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which UBF should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so UBF should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Cs case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 5. I said this because:
By Loan  5, Miss C had been borrowing from UBF for around fourteen  months.  
Miss C had needed loan extensions to repay  her first three loans.  
Miss C wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed UBF. Loan 5 was 
again for the same amount as Loan 4 and substantially higher than her first loan. But 
Miss C had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect; service a debt to UBF over an 
extended period.
Ref: DRN05862815There were  some  small gaps between some of the loans being repaid and a new 
loan being granted. But, I didnt think it would have  been  reasonable for UBF to have 
concluded these  gaps were any indication that Miss Cs finances  had moved  on from 
whatever situation had required  her previous loans.
If UBF had made what I considered to be proportionate checks  before Loan  5 it 
would have seen  that Miss C had outstanding  short term loans from at least  four 
other short term lenders.  Id seen these loans on Miss Cs credit report. So I thought 
it would  have been clear to UBF if it had done proportionate checks that Miss C was 
facing problems managing her money.
I thought that Miss C lost out because  UBF continued to provide borrowing from Loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the length of time that Miss C had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Miss Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so had 
kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
Id considered some of the main  points UBF made  in response to the adjudicators view. 
UBF said that it considered if the repayments were  affordable on a pounds and pence basis 
and that repayments being made  in full and on time were  an indication that Miss C could 
sustainably make her repayments.  I also noted that UBF had referred  to some of Miss Cs 
monthly repayments as a percentage  of monthly  income. But I thought UBF would  (or ought  
to) know from previous  decisions (as well as whats set out on our website) that there were 
cases where this service considered the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability 
of each loan. And there would be times when the pattern of lending  alone was enough to 
indicate that a consumer  was likely  to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be 
harmed should  relending  have  continued.  So it followed that successful  repayment  of a 
loan didnt automatically mean it was repaid sustainably.
UBF had also referred  to gaps between some  of the loans. Id noted  there  were  some limited 
gaps between loans  being repaid and a new loan being  granted,  including  one of around 
three months before Loan 3 and two of around two months before Loans 4 and 5. But I didnt 
think it would  have  been reasonable for UBF to have concluded these gaps were any 
indication that Miss Cs finances had moved on from whatever situation  had required her 
previous loans. Overall  there was an established  pattern of borrowing which ought to have 
concerned UBF irrespective of the length of pauses  in Miss Cs loan applications.
Id noted that UBF had referred to a confirmation given by Miss C that she had read the pre-
contractual documentation. But even  if the provision of a confirmation on this and other  
matters had formed part of the loan application process, it didnt absolve UBF of its 
obligation to assess  the risk to Miss C and make  a fair decision. 
Id noted that UBF had also referred  to Miss Cs loan deferrals  and said that these  didnt 
automatically indicate financial difficulties. But Id thought that these generally indicated that 
Ref: DRN05862816a borrower was having difficulties managing her finances as she couldnt keep to the 
contractual repayment schedule.
Id also thought that when  a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, 
it was most likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary 
cash flow problems. As UBF knew, the FCA made  it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high 
cost lending firms that a high volume of relending..might  be symptomatic  of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So subject to any further representations by Miss C or UBF my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part and that UBF should put things  right as follows.
putting things right  what UBF needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss C paid on Loans 2, 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
refund  all the interest and charges that Miss C has paid on Loan 7, and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of  
settlement; 
as the balance on Loan  7 has been  transferred to a third party  (T), UBF should  also 
refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the outstanding balance  
on Loan 7 (since T will expect to collect this money from Miss C);
as Loan 7 has been transferred to T, pay the above  refunds to Miss C in full and no 
deductions should be made  by UBF. But, if UBF buys back Loan 7 from T within  21 
days of Miss Cs acceptance of my decision, it might apply the refunds referred to 
above to reduce any capital outstanding  on Loan 7, and pay any balance  to Miss C;
    
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Cs credit file about Loan 2;
remove any information  about  Loans 5 and 6 from Miss Cs credit  file;
remove any information  about  Loan 7 once it has been repaid (if UBF buys it back). If 
Loan 7 has to remain with T, then UBF is to assist Miss C, so far as it is able,  to 
correct her credit file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it had taken off if she asks for one. If UBF intends 
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting 
the tax.
Miss C hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
UBF disagreed with my provisional decision.  It referred to a couple of typographical errors  in 
the decision and queried the effect  of these on the content. It also referred  to my statement  
that if UBF had done better checks on Loan 5 it would have seen other outstanding loans on 
Miss Cs file. And it also referred to my statements that not all lenders use the same  credit 
reference agencies  and individual credit reports do not necessarily show  the same  
Ref: DRN05862817information as lender  reports. UBF also referred  to the numerous adjudicator assessments 
being confusing. It also said that it didnt think that borrowing from UBF prevented  Miss C 
from going back to the mainstream market as the two markets  were different.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
UBF has referred to two typographical errors in my provisional decision. I apologise for these 
and Ive corrected  these above.  The content of my provisional  decision  was otherwise 
correct.
UBF has referred to my statements about  better  checks being done on Loan 5 and the 
information supplied  by different credit reference  agencies. But I think by the time of Loan 5, 
UBF ought reasonably  to have suspected that Miss C was likely having trouble managing 
her money. And if it had made  proportionate  checks, these should have involved UBF 
gathering a more  comprehensive view of Miss Cs circumstances and seeking  some 
independent verification of these. And as Id said above, I think the overall pattern of UBFs 
lending history with Miss C showed that by Loan  5 UBF should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so UBF should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
I note that UBF found the various  adjudicators assessments confusing. But it will be aware 
that I have  considered the complaint afresh and that my decision supersedes the 
adjudicators assessments.
I also note that UBF didnt think borrowing from UBF prevented  Miss C from going back to 
the mainstream market  as the two markets  were different. I disagree. As I said above, I think 
the length of time that Miss C had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have had 
negative implications on Miss Cs ability to access mainstream credit.
Otherwise Im satisfied that the proposed resolution  in my provisional decision is fair in all 
the circumstances, and I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions. It follows  that I 
uphold this complaint in part and require UBF to pay Miss C some  compensation as set out 
below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss C paid on Loans 2, 5 and 6;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
3.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Miss C has paid on Loan  7, and pay 8% 
simple interest* a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of  
settlement; 
Ref: DRN058628184.As the balance on Loan 7 has been  transferred  to a third party (T), UBF should 
also refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included  in the outstanding 
balance on Loan 7 (since T will expect to collect  this money  from Miss C);
5.As Loan  7 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Miss C in full and 
no deductions should be made  by UBF. But, if UBF buys back  Loan 7 from T 
within 21 days of Miss Cs acceptance  of my decision, it might apply the refunds 
referred to above to reduce any capital  outstanding on Loan 7, and pay any 
balance to Miss C;
    
6.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Cs credit  file about Loan 2;
7.Remove any information about Loans 5 and 6 from Miss Cs credit  file; and
8.Remove any information about Loan 7 once it has been repaid (if UBF buys it 
back). If Loan 7 has to remain with T, then UBF is to assist Miss C, so far as it is 
able, to correct her credit  file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it had taken off if she asks for one. If UBF intends 
to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0586281