K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  about an Aqua branded  credit  card provided to her by NewDay Ltd. She 
thinks it was irresponsible  of NewDay to increase her credit limit on three  occasions  from 
£250 to £1,650 over 16 months.
background
A timeline  of NewDays lending decisions  is below:
June 2013  Ms P applied for an Aqua credit card. NewDay  accepted  this and provided  a 
credit limit of £250.
October 2013   NewDay  offered an unsolicited credit limit increase  to £750, which Ms P 
contacted it to accept.
September  2014  NewDay agreed to Ms Ps request for a credit  limit increase to £1,150.
February 2015  NewDay  offered an unsolicited credit limit increase  to £1,650, which 
Ms P contacted it to accept.
From March 2015 onwards Ms P exceeded  her credit limit every month. Her last payment to 
the card was in September  2015,  after which she was in arrears. The account was recorded  
as being in default on her credit report from March 2016 onwards. NewDay says that 
£1,980.18 is still owed on Ms Ps credit card account, but that it is not currently attempting to 
collect the debt.
Ms P has only complained about the credit limit increases, not the initial decision to lend. So, 
Ive only looked  at the credit limit increases.
NewDay says it carried out appropriate checks when offering and applying  the credit  limit 
increases. It said that it reviewed Ms Ps account  usage, credit utilisation, and payment 
history as well as credit reference agency data before deciding whether  to offer a credit limit 
increase or accept  Ms Ps request to increase the credit limit.
NewDay also acknowledged  that it had failed to log Ms Ps complaint in June 2018, when 
she first emailed  NewDay to express her dissatisfaction. NewDay  has offered £50 
compensation in acknowledgement of this.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. NewDay disagreed with this, so Ive been asked to 
make a decision on the matter. I issued  a provisional decision saying I was planning to 
uphold the complaint and explaining how I thought things should be put right. NewDay didnt  
respond to my provisional decision. Ms P asked that I direct  NewDay to remove  the default 
from her credit records. 
Ref: DRN08197072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the responses to my provisional  
decision. 
Weve set out on our website the key things  we take into account when considering 
complaints about  unaffordable or irresponsible lending. Ive also taken these things into 
account when  reaching my decision.
NewDay was required to lend responsibly.  When NewDay increased  the credit  limit it 
needed to take reasonable steps  to understand whether Ms P would be able to repay  what 
was being lent within a reasonable period of time. It was up to NewDay to decide exactly  
what checks it carried out, but they had to be proportionate to things such as the amount 
borrowed, the cost of repayment and Ms Ps borrowing history.
Having considered what checks were carried out and Ms Ps circumstances at the time of 
applying for the card,  Ive decided to uphold the complaint. I explain my reasons below, as 
well as what NewDay must  do to put things right if Ms P accepts  this decision.
October 2013  credit  limit increased  from £250 to £750
At this time Ms P had held the credit card for three  full statement periods. Her first statement 
showed that shed taken  two cash advances,  totalling £150, soon after receiving the card,  
and with other transactions had used  a combined £249.28 of her £250  credit limit.
As a result of interest added to her first statement (17 July 2013), Ms P had gone over her 
credit limit and been charged an over-limit fee of £12. The minimum payment required on 
her first statement was £19.23. 
Ms Ps August statement shows that she paid off £50.00, and the over-limit fee was
refunded. She made one small transaction, leaving her statement balance at £225.12.
In September  Ms P made the minimum payment  (£12.35) but didnt use the card. Her 
statement balance was £220.80.
Ms Ps October statement  shows  that she made the minimum payment again. There  were 
no new transactions and her statement  balance  was £218.44.
So, in October  2013, when  it increased the credit limit, NewDay  knew  from Ms Ps three 
months using the card that she had:
Immediately taken  two cash advances (a potential sign of financial difficulty according  to 
UK Cards  Association guidance).
Gone over her credit limit (another  potential sign of financial difficulty) in the first month.
Made only the minimum  repayment  from her second statement onwards (another  
potential sign of financial  difficulty).
The amount owed on the card was close to her credit limit in every statement period, with 
no regular payments beyond the minimum required.
Ref: DRN08197073Its clear that, despite this, NewDay assessed  that Ms Ps use of her card didnt preclude her 
from a credit limit increase. But NewDay has also said it utilised data from credit reference  
agencies before making its decision.  
Ive looked at Ms Ps credit reference  agency data covering that time and can see that Ms P 
also had another  credit  card with a different lender. Her credit limit on that card had been 
trebled from £500  to £1,500 around  June 2013   which was about the same time as shed 
obtained a new card from NewDay. This suggests that Ms P may have urgently been 
seeking additional funds at that time.
September 2014 credit  limit increased  to £1,150 at Ms Ps request
By September 2013,  Ms P had utilised,  and exceeded that month, her full credit  limit on her 
card with the other lender.  This was the third time that shed exceeded  the credit  limit on that 
card in the previous seven months. Before that, shed  consistently utilised more than 94% of 
her credit limit on that card, with only three  months   immediately following the June 2013 
credit limit increase  where  shed  utilised less than 90% of her credit.
So, in the three months since taking her NewDay card, Ms Ps credit card debts  had 
increased from about £500 to about  £1,750. Shed used almost her entire  available  
credit within a few months of each new card or credit limit increase. And shed exceeded 
her credit limit on four occasions, across  two credit cards,  over a seven-month period.  
Ms Ps credit  file also shows  she had a current account which had been in default  since at 
least December 2013, with a debt owed  of £207.
I think this information  suggests that Ms P was at least  at risk of, if not already experiencing, 
financial difficulties. Her debts were consistently  increasing with no sign that she would be 
able to repay any additional  borrowing within a reasonable timeframe.  While she was 
keeping up with her minimum  repayments across  both cards, I think  it was irresponsible  for 
NewDay to provide Ms P with additional credit given what it shouldve know about her 
pattern of borrowing at that time.
I think that similar issues ought to have prompted  NewDay to decline Ms Ps request for 
additional credit  in September 2014. Ms Ps credit limit was increased to £1,150 at that time.
Ms Ps balance on her NewDay account had been over £700, against a credit  limit of £750, 
from December 2013 onwards.  This was within three months of the previous increase. Shed 
made no significant repayments since opening the account and made no repayment at all in 
March 2014.
Ms P also had an active County Court  Judgement dated 30 April 2014, in relation to a debt 
of £1,712. So, I think it was especially reckless of NewDay  to provide additional credit to 
Ms P in September  2014. She had a significant  debt that shed been unable to pay. And was 
showing no signs of being able to pay off her existing credit card debts within  a reasonable 
time. I dont think there was any reason for NewDay to think  shed be able to repay any 
additional lending  within a reasonable time either.
February 2015  unsolicited  credit  limit increase to £1,650
I dont think NewDay should have offered a further  credit  limit increase in February 2015. 
Ref: DRN08197074Ms P had taken two cash  advances in November 2014, and one in February  2015   totalling 
£270. Shed  opened  a mail order account in November  2014, which  was at or over its credit 
limit from December 2014 to February 2015.  The County Court Judgement was still active, 
meaning she hadnt repaid that debt.  And her pattern of use of her NewDay card hadnt 
changed  From December 2014 her balance had increased to near its limit, and she wasnt 
making repayments that were significantly beyond the minimum required.
Considering her circumstances, which I think NewDay  ought  to have been aware of, its 
decision to lend her yet more money seems to be especially  reckless.
default on Ms Ps credit file
Im not instructing  NewDay to remove the default from Ms Ps credit records.  It appears she 
was in financial difficulty, or on the verge of it, before NewDay lent her more  money. And Im 
mindful that if NewDay hadnt lent her that money  she wouldve had much less available  to 
her. So that couldve led to even  more problems. 
By putting things right as Ive said below, Ms P will owe considerably less. That should 
improve her credit profile. And I hope it will help her to put her finances  back onto a more  
stable footing  in the future. If she wants some more help with that, she can ask us for the 
contact details of debt charities  which  provide  free advice. 
summary of my findings
In summary,  I dont think that NewDay had any reasonable basis  for concluding that Ms P 
would be able to repay within a reasonable period of time any of the additional borrowing it 
agreed to from October 2013 onwards. These  decisions  to extend additional credit to Ms P 
seem to be especially  reckless given the information  on Ms Ps credit file at those times.
And, as Newday took such reckless risks when lending (in other words lending when it was 
aware or it ought  reasonably to have been  aware that there  was a very real prospect Ms P 
wouldnt be able to repay any capital advanced,  let alone the interest), I think that this needs  
to be reflected in what Newday does to put things right.
NewDays irresponsible lending decisions have left Ms P owing over £1,900, which  it 
appears she cannot pay back. Had NewDay not increased Ms Ps credit  limit beyond  £250, 
then she would have  only been able to borrow  up to her original £250 credit limit. While Ms P 
may have  had financial difficulties even if NewDay didnt do anything wrong, I think  
NewDays irresponsible lending decisions made things worse than they wouldve been. And 
that will have caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Ive set out below what  NewDay must do to put things right. This is intended, as far as 
possible, to put Ms P in the position  she wouldve  been in if NewDay had done  nothing 
wrong  and will have  the effect of writing off some of the debt that Ms P owes. 
I dont think it would  be fair to write off the full amount that Ms P owes  because she has 
had some benefit from using that money. But, given  I think  NewDays  decisions to lend 
additional amounts to her were especially reckless, and the effect this had on her, nor do I 
think she should remain liable for the full amount that she borrowed.  I think my proposals 
below strike  a fair and reasonable balance.
Ref: DRN08197075putting things right
NewDay should put Ms P in the financial position shed be in now if it hadnt  increased the 
credit limit beyond £250, by taking the following steps:
A. From the date of the October 2013  increase, NewDay should  work out the interest 
charged on purchases and cash advances that Ms P made when she owed  more  than £250, 
plus any charges that were caused  by that and any interest added to those charges.
B. Deduct  the amount  in A from the outstanding  balance on Ms Ps account.
C. Write off 50% of any amount greater  than £250 that is still owing  after taking the steps  in 
A and B.
D. Tell Ms P what  its done to work out A, B and C.
E. Pay Ms P £50 compensation (as previously  offered).
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  this complaint. NewDay Ltd should  put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0819707