K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited avoided his car insurance policy  as 
he didnt inform them it had a vinyl wrap.
background
Mr M bought  a policy in 2017. He did a quote through a comparison website and purchased  
his policy  with Skyfire.  In 2018  Skyfire  wrote to Mr M to say his policy  was due to renew and 
to check the information in the renewal documents was correct. Mr Ms policy then renewed 
with Skyfire. 
In December 2018 Mr M was involved in an accident  with another driver  and made a claim.  
When Skyfire reviewed  the claim it realised the car had a vinyl wrap which hadnt  been 
disclosed when the policy was taken out. Due to this it avoided  the policy   which means 
cancelled from the start as if it never  existed - and refunded Mr M the premiums paid. Skyfire 
has subsequently pursued Mr M for the costs it had paid out on the other drivers claim 
against him. 
Mr M complained to Skyfire as he said he hadnt realised he needed to notify it that the car 
had a vinyl wrap. He said there wasnt an option  to select vinyl  wrap on the list of possible 
modifications, when  he bought the policy through a comparison website. So, he assumed it 
wasnt classed as a modification and didnt  need  to be disclosed.  He also didnt think it was 
fair that he was now being pursued for costs from the accident.
Skyfire didnt uphold  the complaint. It said if Mr M had told it about the vinyl wrap when he 
took out the policy, it wouldnt have  offered him cover.  Skyfire  said that Mr M was asked 
whether the car had been modified  when buying  the policy on the comparison website. And 
the website provided  a clear definition of whats considered  a modification. Therefore, Mr M 
should have realised he needed  to disclose the vinyl wrap.
Mr M wasnt happy with Skyfires response and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
Skyfire had also told him he would be responsible for the other drivers costs. Our 
investigator considered  all the issues and recommended that the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. She thought that the question on the price  comparison website was clear enough for 
Mr M to be able to understand he should  have  disclosed the modification. 
Mr M didnt  agree with this, as he said there wasnt  an option  to select on the comparison 
website that fitted  his cars vinyl wrap. He asked  for his complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M bought his policy he had a responsibility   under the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representation)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. And for Skyfire  to take any action  at all it needs to show Mr M didnt do 
this and made whats described  as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN07734002CIDRA sets out a number of things which need  to be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the 
consumer was asked.  I can see the comparison website Mr M used to buy his policy in 2017  
asked him Has the car been modified, adapted  and/or  fitted with any optional extras such as 
changes to bodywork,  engine  or wheels? It also gave a detailed  description of what  meets  
the definition of a modification, next to the question. The description includes the following 
example of a modification: cosmetic changes such as alloy wheels or paint. So Im satisfied  
a clear question was asked and Mr M said the car wasnt modified 
As I believe the question  was clear, I need  to consider whether Mr M took reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation. Mr M says that because there  wasnt  an option  to select  a 
vinyl wrap as a modification after clicking yes to the question,  he thought it didnt  need  to be 
disclosed. However, I think it would have been  clear that its something that needed  to be 
disclosed. As the description of a modification  included cosmetic changes. And I think  its 
clear that a vinyl wrap is a cosmetic  change.  So, I think  Mr M should have selected the 
closest possible option. 
When Mr Ms policy renewed  he entered into a new contract with Skyfire.  And he again 
needed to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. Ive reviewed the renewal 
documents Skyfire  sent Mr M when his policy renewed in 2018.  The documents  asked him 
to check the information was correct  and to let Skyfire  know  if anything  wasnt  correct. The 
statement of fact has a section which asks about  the vehicle and lists modifications which 
is marked as No. I think  it was clear  that Skyfire  wanted to know if any details werent  
correct and Mr M didnt let it know his car was modified.
In view of what Mr Ms said Im satisfied he failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. But to show Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one, under 
CIDRA, Skyfire needs to show  it would either  not have offered the policy  at all if the 
misrepresentation hadnt been made or that it would have offered it on different  terms. 
Skyfire has shown that it wouldnt have offered Mr M the policy  if it had known about the 
modification. So, Im satisfied Mr M made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Under CIDRA a qualifying  misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless  or careless.  
Skyfire has avoided Mr Ms policy,  refused all claims and refunded his premium.  As this is 
the remedy allowed  when  a misrepresentation is careless, Im satisfied Skyfires actions are 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr Ms also said Skyfires told him hes 
responsible for the other drivers costs.  As Skyfire has shown it wouldnt have entered  into 
the contract  at all it would  never have incurred these  costs  if Mr M hadnt made a 
misrepresentation. Im therefore not going to interfere with its decision to pursue Mr M for 
these.   
For these reasons, I dont  think  Skyfire  has done  anything wrong in these circumstances. It 
asked a clear question and Mr M made a qualifying misrepresentation. Skyfire has also 
provided evidence  that it wouldnt  have provided  the policy if it had known about the 
modification. Skyfire has already issued a full refund of the premium paid, and as this is a 
remedy allowed under  CIDRA, I am satisfied that it is fair in the circumstances. I therefore 
wont be asking Skyfire  to do anything more.
Ref: DRN07734003my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0773400