K820x#14complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz), as the insurer,  should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to Allianz  as the seller 
in my decision.
Mr S says Allianz mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr S took out with a charge card in 1991. It was added 
to his account when he applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Allianz had to make it clear to Mr S that the policy was optional and get his consent  before 
PPI could be applied to the account. Allianz has said the optional nature of the policy  was 
made clear. Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. The box has been ticked  to confirm the 
cover is required. Mr S has signed the overall  application which suggests that he agreed  
with everything that had been entered. If Mr S didnt want  to take out the PPI, he could have 
left the box blank when completing his application.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr S so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for him.  But 
it did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible  the information Allianz gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But even if Allianz  had given him better  or clearer  information, I dont think it 
would have made a difference.  I still think he would have taken the policy.  I say this because 
Mr S was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the 
cover, such  as having unusual working arrangements or a medical condition of which he was 
already aware.
Mr S has told us he was entitled to some  sick pay from his employer. But this policy could 
have paid 15% of the outstanding balance until he was able to return to work  or until that 
balance was cleared  whichever came first. And this would be in addition to, and potentially 
for longer than, his sick pay. The policy would also have covered him for the same term if he 
was to lose his job. So I still think this policy could  have provided a useful benefit to him.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think Mr S has lost out as a result  of 
anything that Allianz may have done wrong.
Ref: DRN01248932my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0124893