K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a disputed transaction  on 
his current account  he didnt make.
Background
Mr K has a current  account with NatWest.
On 15 October 2018 in the early hours of the morning a new payee was set up and an 
international transfer was made  for £893.03 using  Mr Ks online  banking. Mr K says he didnt  
make that transaction.
Mr K contacted NatWest  on the 29 October 2018  to report  the disputed  transaction.  He also 
said he couldnt find his debit card. NatWest cancelled his debit card and reissued him with a 
new one. Mr K confirmed although he routinely checked his account, he hadnt contacted the 
bank sooner because he had been doing  his own investigation into the disputed  transaction.
Mr K has given  two possible versions  of how the disputed transaction  may have happened. 
He explained  he carried his wallet and card reader  in his bag which  he took to work. He said 
he suspected  someone might have used this information at work  to make the disputed  
transaction. He more  recently suggested  one of the two tenants he lived with managed  to 
get hold of his details  and used his computer and card to make the payment out of his 
account. Mr K said he had been at work  that night. Mr H confirmed he carried  out a genuine 
transaction for £25 on the same day as the disputed transaction.
NatWest carried out an investigation and thought Mr K had authorised the disputed  
transaction. In summary they said they wouldnt be refunding Mr K as:
the IP address used for the disputed  transaction was the same as one used in 
September for genuine  transactions. 
the device  used to make  the payment was the same as one used during November 
after the disputed  transaction. 
They confirmed to set up a payment the card and reader were needed, and at the 
time of the disputed  transaction Mr K still had his card. 
As Mr K disagreed with NatWests decision,  he asked us to investigate.
Mr K told our investigator  he had stayed  at work on the 14 October 2018 as he was working  
a late shift followed by an early shift the next day. His account details were  stored  on his 
tablet which  was password protected. He thought  he had his card reader in the office at 
home and his debit  card was in his wallet. He thought his card might have been taken 
before. He confirmed  he had a notebook with his PIN and passwords written down which he 
usually took in a bag to work as well as his debit card.
Having reviewed the evidence our investigator  didnt uphold  the complaint. She thought it 
was most likely Mr K had carried the transaction out himself.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view. He maintained he hadnt carried out the 
transaction and someone had hacked  into his account whilst he was at work.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN01467522My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr K liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more  likely  than not, he made or authorised  it himself.
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ks genuine online banking details 
were used to make  the disputed transaction. But the regulations  relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own enough  to enable NatWest to hold Mr K liable. So, I also need  to think 
about whether  the evidence suggests its more likely  than not Mr K consented  to the 
transfers being made. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude  Mr K authorised  
the transactions. I say this because:
Mr K has said he was working a late shift on 14 October 2018  and then an early shift 
on 15 October 2018 which is why he slept at work. The evidence he has provided  to 
us shows he was working from 5pm to half past midnight on Monday 
15 October 2018 and not an early shift as he has said. 
Mr K has confirmed  a transfer  on 15 October 2018 at 2:31pm for £25 was a genuine  
transaction from his mobile phone. The IP address for that transaction  is the same as 
for the disputed transaction. The IP address pinpoints a location  close to his home 
address.
Mr K says he was at work from 6am on the 15 October 2018,  but if this was the case, 
he wouldnt have been able to carry out the transaction at 2:31pm which was made 
from his home address 
Ive seen evidence  from the bank that Mr K would have been notified of a new payee  
and a new payment  being made  on 15 October  2018. Mr K says he was carrying out 
his own investigation,  but I find it surprising he wouldnt contact the bank to query this 
substantial payment leaving his account sooner than the 29 October 2018.
Mr K says he lost his card a week before he called the bank on the 29 October  2018. 
Given he was aware  of the disputed transaction it seems unusual  he would wait for a 
week to call the bank  to report the card lost.
Mr K still had the card on the 22 October 2018  as he used it for a transaction. It 
seems unusual for a fraudster to gain access to an account and only carry out one 
transaction and replace the card with funds still remaining in the account. Its even 
more surprising considering Mr K didnt report the disputed transaction for nearly two 
weeks.
Mr K isnt sure where his card was on the day of the disputed  transaction and 
proposed it could have been  taken a few days before along with his PIN. I agree this 
Ref: DRN01467523is possible, but I find it surprising a fraudster  would decide to return the card to Mr K 
so he could use it on the 22 October  2018. 
For the transaction to be carried out a fraudster would also need access  to Mr Ks 
online banking and have access  to his PIN and a card reader. Mr K says his tenant 
would have had access to all this information  as he kept his card and details  of his 
PIN and online  banking passwords in a notebook together in his work  bag. He has 
also said his tablet  held account  information,  but this was password protected.  Mr Ks 
not provided an explanation for how his tenant knew the password and think  its 
unlikely his tenant was able to access all this information to carry out the transaction 
without Mr K noticing or his authority. 
I can understand Mr K may be confused about what happened in what  order and that is 
understandable. However, on balance I am satisfied the evidence  points to Mr K carrying  out 
the transaction or authorising someone else to do so on his behalf. 
Taking everything into account  I find on balance that Mr K authorised  the disputed 
transaction. It follows that NatWest are entitled  to hold him liable for it and I wont be asking 
NatWest to refund Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0146752