K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited wont release  him from a loan 
agreement he says he didnt take out. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trades  as 
Barclays Partner Finance,  or BPF.
background
Early in 2015 Mr P entered  into agreements  for the fitting of solar  panels to both his and his 
sons house. Mr P says that he discussed  with the supplier the option of paying through a 
finance agreement  but instead  decided in respect of one agreement  to pay cash for the 
panels and their installation. He says he paid cash but was never  provided  with a receipt. 
The supplier  went into liquidation in 2016.
In 2017 Mr Ps accountant told him that he was making regular payments to BPF. He 
realised that these payments were in respect of the solar panels  which  he believed hed paid 
for in cash. He stopped  payments but then received arrears notices and default letters from 
BPF and recovery agents. He asked BPF to arrange for this to stop, but BPF didnt agree. It 
said hed borrowed the money and it was entitled  to have it repaid. 
Mr P complained to this service and one of our investigators considered what  hed said.  In 
the course of her investigation she sent Mr P copies of two loan agreements  that BPF said 
hed taken out at the time and which it appeared hed signed. Mr P clarified that this 
complaint was only about one of the loans. The investigator concluded, on balance,  that Mr 
P had consented to the borrowing. Mr P didnt  accept  her conclusions and asked that an 
ombudsman review his complaint.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not unusual  for suppliers and installers of high value items such  as solar panels  or 
heating systems to have  arrangements  with lenders which  can provide finance to 
consumers. It seems  that in this case the supplier of the solar panels had such 
arrangements with BPF. So it was the supplier  who would sell loans on behalf of BPF. BPF 
would then pay the supplier and seek repayment  from the consumer in line with the terms of 
the loan agreement.
Mr Ps main argument is that there  were  no such arrangements  here,  because  he paid the 
supplier direct. 
BPF has however produced a copy  of loan agreement that Mr P says he didnt agree to. It 
appears to have been signed by Mr P on 15 February 2015 and on behalf of BPF two days  
later. It refers to the supplier and is for a period of 120 months,  or ten years. 
The document BPF has produced records a loan of £6,550 plus interest  and fees, making a 
total of £10,309.20, repayable at £85.91 a month.  In my view,  the agreement is consistent 
with Mr Ps statement that he arranged for the supply and installation of solar  panels. 
I have also seen evidence  from BPF that it paid the supplier £12,963 (that is, the total of the 
two loans) less its own fees on 24 February  2015.  That too is consistent with Mr P having  
Ref: DRN03036132taken out a loan in line with the arrangements outlined above. I note as well that the monthly 
payments were made  until early in 2017.  
BPF says that a welcome  letter was sent to Mr P. Its records  indicate it was sent and that a 
call was made to Mr P as well. A copy of the letter  isnt available and neither is a recording of 
the call, but I have  no reason to think BPFs  records are inaccurate.   
Mr P says he made a direct payment to the supplier.  His representative has explained  that 
Mr Ps wife had savings set aside  for her fathers  funeral arrangements.  When another family 
member met those expenses, she had money that could be used to pay for the solar panels.  
Ive no reason to doubt this, but it doesnt show that the money was in fact used to pay for 
the solar panels.  Even if Mr Ps wife had given him cash, any payment  he made to the 
supplier would have  passed through a bank account, leaving a record.  
I note though that Mr Ps representative says that Mr Ps father-in-law died some  months 
after the date of the loan agreement and that it was around a year before  his wife was 
confident she wouldnt need to use her money  to cover the funeral costs. If thats correct, the 
money wasnt available when the solar  panels were  installed.    
Mr P may be mistaken in his recollection, of course. But Im satisfied  that he agreed to 
borrow the money from BPF and that BPF paid the supplier. If, as he says,  Mr P made  any 
further payments  to the supplier, thats  really a matter between him and the supplier. But its 
not something that I can hold BPF responsible  for. As Ive said, Ive seen clear  evidence that 
BPF paid the supplier  (although, since it includes information about the suppliers bank, it 
hasnt been disclosed  to Mr P). I recognise  of course that Mr Ps prospects of recovery  from 
the supplier are slim, given its no longer in business; if he did pay the supplier direct, he has 
my sympathy.
Mr P says as well that he wasnt given any advice about the loan. That is however 
inconsistent with his case that he didnt take it out. But a lenders obligations to provide 
advice are rather different  from those  owed when, say, an investment is involved.  And Mr P 
hasnt in any event  suggested that the lending was unsuitable or that he couldnt afford it. 
Finally, Mr P has said in the course of this services investigation, that the supplier made 
statements about the savings that could be made  which  turned out to be untrue. Because  
that didnt form part of the complaint that was referred to us, we havent  investigated  it and I 
havent considered it in this decision  which concerns only the question of whether Mr P 
took out the loan. So it may remain open  to Mr P to raise that issue separately with BPF if he 
wishes; and it may also be open to him to refer it back  to this service  if he isnt happy with 
the response. But I stress that I make no comment on it at this stage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to do anything further  to resolve  Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 November 2019.
Ref: DRN03036133Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0303613