K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt protected or otherwise prevented 
them from losing money to a scam.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer only to Mr B, as he was the one mainly involved. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.
In 2018 Mr B was contacted by a scammer  who purported to be abroad and interested  in 
buying goods from Mr B. The scammer sent Mr B a cheque for more than required to pay for 
the goods. The scammer told Mr B to pay the cheque in, and to return  the overpayment to a 
particular account.
Mr B did this but unfortunately the cheque subsequently bounced  and he was left out of 
pocket.
HSBC ultimately didnt recover the funds nor offer to reimburse Mr B. Remaining unhappy, 
Mr B referred his complaint about HSBC to this service. As we have been unable  to resolve 
the matter informally,  the case has been  passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr and Mrs B and HSBC my provisional  decision  on 28 May 2021 explaining why I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint and the compensation  I was intending to award.
Mr B responded to accept my provisional decision.
HSBC responded  to my provisional decision and said:
it requests that I revisit the comments it has previously  made,  as it says these have 
not all been included in my provisional decision;
it is not reasonable to expect banks to underwrite losses;  Mr B was told there was a 
possibility the negotiated cheque  could be returned and he made no attempt to verify 
the cheque proceeds  were secure  before making the payment back to the scammer;
although I have  said Mr B did not appreciate  what he was doing,  Mr B has an 
obligation to mitigate his position:  he didnt make  enquiries but made assumptions 
about the cheque that contributed  to his losses. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions and for materially  the same  
reasons as in my provisional decision. Ive therefore explained my reasons again  below with 
some further  comment where  appropriate to respond to HSBCs recent submissions.  
Ref: DRN04534112Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above concisely using my own words,  and 
that HSBC has said my provisional decision did not include all the comments it has made 
about the case. However, Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres  something  Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need  to comment on every individual argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
It is common ground that Mr B authorised  the scam  payment. He was duped by the 
scammer into instructing  HSBC to make the payment from his HSBC account  to return an 
overpayment. I accept  this was an authorised payment even though Mr B was the victim  of 
a scam. So, although he did not intend the money  to go to a scammer, under the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the account,  Mr B is presumed  liable 
for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulator rules  and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.
I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment  where the judge took a different view about  
the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And 
notwithstanding what the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have 
a duty to resolve complaints based  on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  taking into account  not just the law, but also regulator rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Ref: DRN04534113I am mindful  that my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced  the relevant rules,  codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions,  both to HSBC 
and published  on our website.
Bearing all of this in mind, I have  considered  whether  HSBC  acted fairly and reasonably  in 
its dealings with Mr B and whether or not it ought  to have prevented the scam.
HSBC has said that even if it had discussed the payment with Mr B before it was processed, 
it is unlikely this would have resulted in the payment not being made. I dont find this 
persuasive at all. Im persuaded that if HSBC had spoken to Mr B about the payment 
instruction before it processed it  and appropriately  asked him what the payment was for 
and about the basic surrounding context  Mr B would have been open  and honest.  In which 
case I think HSBC ought reasonably to have realised Mr B was at risk of falling victim to a 
well-known scam. I dont think Mr B would have proceeded with the payment if this had been  
made clear to him.
The material  question to decide here then  and the one the outcome of this complaint turns 
on  is whether HSBC  ought to have discussed the payment instruction with Mr B before it 
processed it.
HSBC cant be involved in every  transaction and there is a balance to be struck. Here, 
however, Mr B had paid a foreign cheque into his account, which  was unusual and 
uncharacteristic, and  whilst this cheque was still in clearing  set up a new payee  and 
instructed a payment to that new payee  for £3,007 which again was unusual  and 
uncharacteristic for the account (and for a similar  amount to the foreign cheque paid in but 
not yet fully cleared).
I am aware  that Mr and Mrs B had previously  instructed transfers  of £3,000  three times in 
the last year or so (in November 2017,  February 2018 and July 2018) but I understand these 
were to their own accounts at HSBC. So I dont think HSBC  ought reasonably to have 
thought this meant the circumstances of the payment  instruction  for £3,007  werent unusual  
or uncharacteristic.
So I think, on balance,  HSBC ought to have recognised the payment instruction  as unusual 
and uncharacteristic  and contacted Mr and Mrs B to discuss the payment before it was 
processed  in which case, for the reasons Ive already explained   Im satisfied Mr B would 
not have agreed  to proceed with the payment (since he would have understood then from 
HSBC that the cheque  had not fully cleared  and he was at risk of what,  to HSBC, ought to 
have been a well-known scam).
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether HSBC  
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the payment from the payee 
bank. But for the sake of completeness, Ive not seen anything that persuades me it missed 
an opportunity to recover the funds after it had processed the payment for Mr and Mrs B  
but rather, for the reasons Ive explained,  I think it ought to have prevented  the payment in 
the first place. I havent seen anything that persuades me HSBC  didnt deal with the cheque 
Mr and Mrs B received appropriately  so I think Mr and Mrs Bs loss here is the £3,007  
payment they made to the scammer theyve  not managed to recover.
I understand HSBC  wrote  to Mr and Mrs B on 28 August  2018  to confirm it had today 
negotiated a foreign cheque for the sum of EUR3,500 on [their] behalf; the letter  said 
£3,106.69 had been credit  to their account  (given  exchange rates) and that Please note that 
Ref: DRN04534114this negotiation is subject to the terms and conditions as shown on page 2. The terms and 
conditions I understand were contained  on page  two explained  that if the cheque was 
subsequently returned as unpaid, HSBC would deduct from the account  the amount  it has 
credited.
I have considered in light of this and generally whether Mr B should bear some responsibility  
by way of contributory negligence  (which  might justify a reduction in compensation). And I do 
note HSBC has highlighted  in its response  to my provisional decision that it believes  Mr B, 
because of this, was made aware of the possibility the negotiated cheque could be returned; 
that he made no attempt to verify  the cheque proceeds were  secure  before making the 
payment back to the scammer (but just assumed);  and that this, it contends,  contributed to 
his losses. However, I already considered  these  issues  before issuing my provisional  
decision. And I still dont  think  it would be fair for compensation to be reduced on the basis  of 
contributory negligence here. Im satisfied that up to and including  the time of authorising  the 
payment Mr B simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the consequences  of his 
actions. He thought he was simply  returning an overpayment he had received by cheque 
which he saw as available funds on his account and which he thought had cleared. 
In principle, I can accept that Mr B might have done  more to check  the cheque had cleared 
and could no longer be returned (albeit I can also see why, as a lay person, he assumed  the 
cheque had cleared).  But I dont think Mr B could see a risk of harm because, unlike HSBC, 
he had no knowledge  or experience of such scams  he saw the funds  were  available. 
This is a case about whether the scam  payment should have been prevented  by HSBC. And 
in my view it was the failure of HSBC that really caused the loss  but for its inaction in the 
face of unusual or uncharacteristic activity, the loss probably wouldnt have occurred. Any 
errors by Mr B were  effectively superseded by HSBCs errors, breaking the causal chain. So 
whilst there  may be cases where a proportionate  reduction in compensation is justified for a 
customers contributory negligence, I am satisfied this is not one of them. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse 
Mr and Mrs B for the loss they suffered without any reduction together  with interest to 
compensate them for being deprived of the money  they lost. Im not persuaded the money, if 
Mr and Mrs B had not lost it to the scam, would simply have sat in their current  account 
earning the prevailing interest rate of that account. So I think our normal interest  rate of 8% 
simple per year is appropriate. 
Ref: DRN04534115my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct HSBC UK
Bank Plc to:
pay Mr and Mrs B £3,007 within 28 days of receiving notification  of their acceptance 
of my final decision; plus
pay Mr and Mrs B interest on that sum at a rate of 8% simple per year1 from the date 
of loss to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
1 If HSBC is legally required to deduct tax from the interest then it should  send Mr and Mrs B a tax 
deduction certificate so they can claim  it back  from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0453411