K820x#14complaint
Mr P and his representative complain  that Barclays Bank Plc has closed his credit card 
account without  any prior notice or explanation. They want it reinstated and compensation.
background
Barclays said in its final response that Mr Ps account was closed immediately and that is 
why two months notice  wasnt given.  The reasons for the account  closure  are confidential  
and will not be disclosed.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said Barclays can choose who it 
does business  with and on what terms. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account  say 
Barclays can close the account at any time. Mr P was sent a letter  on 7 March  2018 
informing him the account was being  closed immediately.  Barclays doesnt have to tell him 
why it made  its commercial decision and it followed its procedures.  The account  closure  was 
in line with the accounts terms  and conditions.
Mr Ps representative remains unhappy saying Barclays response  is inadequate and has 
asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps credit card account say, amongst other things, that the 
agreement has no fixed term and continues  until Barclays  decides  to close it. They also say 
it can close the account by writing  to Mr P and unless it needs to close  the account 
immediately it will give him at least two months  written notice.
In this case Barclays determined to close the account immediately and it wrote to Mr P to tell 
him of this. That was in line with the accounts terms and conditions.
I recognise Mr Ps frustration at the account  being  closed and him not being  given  an 
explanation for that decision.  But Barclays is entitled  to decide who it does business with. 
And its decision to close the account  is a matter of it exercising its commercial judgement in 
which we would not normally interfere.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Barclays has done anything  wrong.  And I cannot 
fairly or reasonably require it to explain  its decision,  to reinstate the account or pay Mr P 
compensation as he and his representative would like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
Ref: DRN05041542ombudsman
Ref: DRN0504154