K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that when he made  a claim on his legal expenses  insurance policy,  LAMP  
Insurance Company Limited  wouldnt  pay all the costs and disbursements incurred relating 
to the legal claim. 
background 
Mr G took out an After the Event  insurance  policy to provide cover for his legal fees for a 
claim he wanted to bring. Court proceedings were issued but the case  was discontinued 
before going to court. This meant he was ordered  to pay the other parties  costs.  
Mr Gs solicitors asked  LAMP to pay the costs, together with disbursements relating to 
medical reports and the court fee. He then complained to LAMP and to this service about 
delays dealing with the claim. 
LAMP paid the other parties  costs. In reply  to Mr Gs complaint, it accepted  that some of the 
disbursements should have been paid,  and arranged for these to be paid. But LAMP didnt 
agree to pay for Mr Gs medical fees without a full breakdown  of these, and said it said never  
received a claim from the solicitors for the court fee.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for LAMP to request  a breakdown  of the costs 
relating to medical reports; it wasnt refusing to pay but just wanted  a breakdown and that 
was reasonable.  He said Mr Gs solicitors  had provided evidence  showing they had claimed 
for the court fee and so LAMP should  pay that.
LAMP disagreed  and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says although  the court 
fee might  be a disbursement that can be claimed under the policy  terms, it never received a 
claim for this and it wouldnt be right for this to be awarded when it had not had a chance to 
consider it first.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say LAMP will pay disbursements  that are reasonably  and properly 
incurred in pursuing  the claim.  It was reasonable to obtain medical evidence  Mr G needed 
it to pursue his legal case. And its reasonable to expect there will be some  fees for this. The 
issue is not whether  its reasonable  to pay for medical evidence,  but whether the amount 
being claimed is reasonable. It wouldnt be fair to expect an insurer  to pay whatever is 
charged, however much it is. LAMP is entitled  to check  how the fees have  been  incurred, to 
decide whether  the amount being  claimed is reasonable.
Although Mr Gs solicitors have provided  an invoice from an agency that arranged the 
medical report, there isnt a detailed breakdown. Mr Gs solicitors say theres no need  for a 
breakdown as the invoice is simply for the medical experts fees  there are no other  costs  
such as admin fees included.  But the invoice refers to a number of items, including  a 
consultation, tests,  a review of records and then the preparation of a report.  In those 
circumstances, I think  its reasonable for LAMP to request a breakdown.
Ref: DRN00029232The solicitors have  said the fees are comparable with other medical  agencies.  But I have to 
look at this particular  case. The amount of work needed may be different in each case. So 
whats charged in another case doesnt  necessarily  help decide what  was reasonable in this 
case. Where someone is asking their insurer to pay large sums of money for disbursements, 
I think its reasonable to provide evidence of how those disbursements  have  been  
calculated. 
In these circumstances I agree that it was reasonable for LAMP to request a breakdown  
before paying  the medical disbursements.
With regard to the court fee, as court proceedings were  issued,  a fee would have been  paid.  
LAMP says it never  received a claim for this. Mr Gs solicitors  have  provided  a copy  of a 
letter sent on 6 October  2017 which includes the court fee as one of the disbursements 
being claimed. And LAMP sent an email in reply on 20 November  2017  confirming receipt  of 
that letter. In any event, the court fee would have been reasonably and properly incurred in 
pursuing the claim. I cant see any reason for LAMP  not to pay the court  fee.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct LAMP  Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay £455 in respect of the court fee, together with interest on this amount at the 
simple rate of 8% per year from the date this was claimed (6 October 2017) to the date it 
makes the payment*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
* If LAMP Insurance Company Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr G a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN0002923