K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint  concerns their whole of life policy, which  is operated by Old 
Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited  (Old Mutual ). They are unhappy with the reviewable 
nature of the policy premiums, which are projected to become  completely unaffordable for 
them in the future. They  say they were not informed  about this; they wouldnt have  
considered taking out the policy if theyd have known the premiums could increase so 
dramatically. 
To resolve  their complaint, Mr and Mrs N want their policy to revert  to the previous premium.  
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a unit-linked whole of life policy  with Skandia in 1991.  Skandia has 
since been taken  over by Old Mutual.  Mr and Mrs N say they took out the policy  primarily to 
avoid an inheritance tax liability. It pays out a lump sum assured upon the death of the 
second joint policyholder. 
The policy originally had a sum assured of £250,000 and a premium  of £50 each month.  
This increased with inflation up to £300,000 but was reduced by Mr and Mrs N to £200,000 
in 2007, at which time they were paid a partial surrender value. They  reduced  the sum 
assured as inheritance tax rates had increased and they therefore required less qualifying  
life cover for estate planning. Thereafter their monthly premium has remained  at £40 each 
month. 
The advice to take out the whole of life policy was given by an IFA, Norman McNeil and 
Partners.
After taking over the policy, Old Mutual sent Mr and Mrs N annual policy documentation. In 
September 2008, it sent an annual review  explaining how the current premium  would meet  
the cost of life cover  for the next year, but after that, Mr and Mrs N would need  to consider 
their options.
In February 2019,  Mr and Mrs N emailed a complaint to Old Mutual.  In it, they said they were 
unhappy to discover  the policy premium could be reviewed; they had been advised the 
premium would remain the same at the outset. Firstly,  Old Mutual  (then Skandia) told them it 
could amend the sum assured in line with inflation.  It then proposed a large increase to Mr 
and Mrs Ns policy premium if they wanted  to maintain the sum assured.  
Old Mutual issued a final response to the complaint  on 15 March  2019. It said that the policy  
documentation made clear how additional  contributions to the policy premiums may be 
required to maintain the sum assured after the first ten years  of the policy.  This was inherent 
with such policies where the cost of life cover  increased with age.  
Mr and Mrs N remained unhappy with their policy and continued corresponding with Old 
Mutual. They said the policy was described  by Norman  McNeil and Partners as a whole of 
life policy  payable on the second death provided  the premium was continued to be paid. The 
premium was stated to be fixed. Mr and Mrs N said the adviser  explained it would not be 
appropriate if on reduced retirement income the premium could increase. They also 
maintained that they had never been told about  reviews once the policy  was more than ten 
years old.  
Ref: DRN09031042Old Mutual wasnt willing  to change its view on the complaint.  It wrote  to Mr and Mrs N again 
in May 2019.  It said Mr and Mrs Ns IFA ought  to have told them the policy  was reviewable, 
as this was clear from the documentation. It also noted Mr and Mrs N opted  to accept the 
annual inflation  increase  to their premium and sum assured in the first few years  of the 
policy. It felt this showed they were aware  of the nature  of the policy.  Finally, Old Mutual  
reiterated that it was not part of any advice to take out the policy;  its duty was to provide 
correct information  and act within the policy terms, and it has done so.   
Mr and Mrs N remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service.  They  said the 
premium will dramatically increase from the current £40 per month  to an expected £3119 per 
month should one of them live until age 91. It must be clear to Old Mutual that no 
policyholder could reasonably afford  to keep their cover in place with a premium that high. It 
must therefore be the case that policies of this nature lapse because theyre unaffordable 
which in turn renders  them inherently unfit for purpose.
They also said that if Old Mutual can make  a prediction now of what future premiums may be 
then it must have been able to do this at the outset. So, it should have specifically included 
that in the policy documentation and brought this to the attention  of any proposed 
purchasers. Mr and Mrs N feel that failure  to do this indicates Old Mutual (and Skandia 
before it) has a callous  disregard  for its policyholders.  
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  succeed. She said she couldnt  look at 
parts of their complaint  relating to what the IFA had told them in 1991,  such  as if they felt 
misled about how the policy worked in practice. What  she could look at was the policy  
documentation, and if Old Mutual  had acted fairly  since the commencement of the policy  in 
how it has undertaken reviews. 
Having done so, she felt the documentation  from the time of the sale was clear  regarding 
how reviews would take place. And while she appreciated Mr and Mrs Ns frustrations, she 
noted that this was the case where  investment  performance of the underlying fund had been  
worse than expected.  
Mr and Mrs N said they did not accept the investigators findings.  They  asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. They said:
they believe Skandia/Old Mutual deliberately sold their policy  on a misleading basis 
from the outset;
if it is capable of providing a premium  estimate  now, it should have been able to do 
so in 1991;
they were told of the right to increase their sum assured and premium through  
inflationary rises, but were never told that the cost of the maintaining  the sum 
assured would increase exponentially in later years.   
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome  reached by our investigator.  I realise my decision 
will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs N but I do not believe Old Mutual is being unfair in how it 
is operating the policy. 
Ref: DRN09031043A number  of the points Mr and Mrs N have made  relate  back  to what  their adviser told them. 
But I cant consider  those points here. That adviser was not an appointed  representative  of 
Skandia, nor was he acting for Skandia in any capacity. On that basis,  Old Mutual  is not 
responsible for the sale of the policy itself. That means my remit is restricted  to actions Old 
Mutual could be liable for; I can only look at whether it is acting reasonably in how it 
manages the policy it has taken over from Skandia. 
I know Mr and Mrs N feel very strongly that they didnt realise how reviews would be 
undertaken. And in the first ten years, the premium wasnt reviewed aside from the 
automatic inflation  option. But, as I have said above, Im not able to look at what Norman  
McNeil and Partners might have said in 1991 because the complaint before me is against  
Old Mutual.
The policy is a reviewable whole of life policy. This means the basis  of the cover is that the 
premiums are used to sustain the policys sum assured.  After  the first ten years, the policy is 
reviewed periodically  (looking ahead five years)  by the provider to establish if the premiums 
paid and the underlying  investment  have sufficient value to sustain the cost of life cover 
going forward. If this is not the case,  then Old Mutual can vary the terms of the policy, 
specifically by lowering  the sum assured. 
The policy terms issued to Mr and Mrs N at the time of the sale (P1) does explain what  can 
happen in future years:
Policy Review
If, in the opinion of the Actuary to the Company  at any Review, the performance  of 
units to which the policy is linked is insufficient to sustain the Sum Assured and other 
benefits the Company will reduce the Sum Assured and other benefits provided that 
Sum Assured after reduction shall not be less than 75% of the premiums payable  
under the policy  from commencement to age 75 of the Life Assured.
 
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
known facts such as their respective ages and health declarations  as well as assumptions 
about a number of different factors, including the future cost of life cover  and investment 
performance  and these  assumptions are based on predictions.  
I know Mr and Mrs N feel upset that Skandia ought to have  told them about what  could 
happen in the future.  However, policy illustrations can only give an indication of what  the 
cost of premiums are likely to be; they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of future  
premiums. Mr and Mrs N couldnt therefore have been told from the outset how their policy 
premium might change (if they wish to maintain the sum assured rather than have it reduced  
in line with the terms). 
When Mr and Mrs N pay a policy premium, it is split two ways.  The first part is used to pay 
for the cost of the life assurance. The remainder is invested into a fund. This investment has 
the aim of growing  sufficiently to cover  the shortfall when the policy  reaches the point that 
the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium  being paid. This is because life cover 
costs increase with age, as the likelihood of making  a claim increases as the life or lives 
assured get older. 
So, Old Mutual issues  annual reviews to Mr and Mrs N explaining the yearly fund value and 
future life cover costs.  These determine  whether  the premiums theyve paid could maintain 
Ref: DRN09031044the level of cover for the next five years, or whether  theyd need to increase it to pay for the 
increased cost of life cover. As Ive explained above,  policies are reviewed regularly to check  
how theyre performing  against the original  assumptions.
Old Mutual has explained  on the most  recent reviews (September 2018 and September  
2019) how an action would need to be taken before the September  2020 review.  In 
September 2019, it said:
Your current premium  is not expected to meet the cost of your cover  for one more 
year. This means that you need to increase your premium, reduce your cover, or 
both. If you do not increase your premium we will reduce your cover to last for a 
further five years. After that, you will need  to significantly increase your premium or 
your cover will be reduced.
To calculate the estimates in this document we need  to make an assumption about 
how your funds may perform  in future.
We have used a growth  rate of 1.0% before charges each  year based on your 
current fund choice. The growth rate is not guaranteed. You can find details of why 
we have used  this rate at [website link].
I believe the nature of the policy reviews was clear, and has been in place  from the outset. 
Old Mutual has given Mr and Mrs N seven different options, the majority of which includes 
some flexibility about  how to vary their cover going forward. Looking at the policy provision 
merely allowing a reduction of the sum assured, I do think Old Mutual  is acting reasonably in 
allowing Mr and Mrs N to consider how they can sustain a higher sum assured going forward 
if they are able to. 
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs N, given  how theyve explained that the 
possible future premium increases will be unaffordable. I also know that it is very 
disappointing that Mr and Mrs N are only now aware  how the premiums they have  paid are 
not sufficient to maintain the sum assured for their lives, but I dont consider Old Mutual to be 
at fault for that. And they still have options  to vary their cover  in order  to retain the policy.  Mr 
and Mrs N may want to consider seeking financial advice about their next steps.
Given my explanation of the cover above, Old Mutual has acted reasonably  in its running of 
the policy (and Skandia before it) and in explaining  Mr and Mrs Ns choices to them.  
my final decision
Im not able to uphold  this complaint or make  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2020.    
 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0903104