K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained that the refund  esure Insurance Limited gave her was too low 
following a claim being deemed as non-fault  on her motor policy.
background
Miss M was insured with esure. And she was involved  with an accident just before her policy  
was due to renew,  where a van reversed into her car. She received her renewal invitation 
with a quote for £264.69 based on five years no claims discount (NCD). This didnt take 
account of the recent accident.  
However, Miss M didnt  renew at that time and instead decided  to buy another policy a 
month later. She said she didnt want to buy another  policy  with esure,  but felt she had to 
because this claim was still ongoing and open.
Miss M said esure said she had to apply for a policy as if she had a fault claim and no NCD. 
She went on line and found the best quotes for esure. She then called  esure who said she 
hadnt lost all her NCD  as it had been  set back to two years  NCD. So Miss M then went  to 
look for a quote  on line using  that information.  When  she called esure again, it told her that 
she had lost all her NCD after all. Miss M said she found this very confusing so she asked 
that representative to simply put in the correct information and she paid the quote  he gave 
her which was £563.48.
The claim was closed  as a non-fault claim on Miss Ms record.  Miss M said esure  had told 
her when the claim was finalised  and non-fault, she would be entitled to a refund. Esure  paid 
Miss M a refund of £86.92. She thought  this was far too low and believed she was now being 
charged £211.87 for an accident that wasnt her fault, based  on the original renewal 
premium she was quoted  of £264.69 and the actual premium she paid of £563.58.
Miss M complained to esure  but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Miss M remained 
dissatisfied so she brought  her complaint to us. The adjudicator thought esure  had 
calculated the refund correctly, but that it had confused matters for Miss M needlessly. So 
she recommended  esure should pay Miss M £100  compensation for this. Esure  didnt  agree  
so Miss Ms complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Whilst esures refund calculation is correct as fully detailed by the adjudicators  view,  the 
issue here is the conflicting advice esure  gave  to Miss M when she finally decided to buy a 
new policy with esure, which caused Miss M trouble, upset  and confusion.
Miss M paid £563.58 in premium believing that was based on the fact that the claim was still 
open (so being treated  as a fault claim) and two years NCD. But that wasnt correct as esure 
provided this quote on a non-fault accident  and the two years  NCD. 
Prior to this esure  had told her the open  claim was being treated as a fault claim  and this had 
affected her premium amount, which wasnt the case. The rates had changed in the time 
Ref: DRN04517602between Miss Ms original renewal invitation and her eventual  application,  which was why 
her premium  was £563.58, instead of something  closer to her original renewal  quote  of 
£264.69. So this wrong information  led to Miss M believing her refund would be much  
greater, which in turn caused her to complain. I consider  that put Miss M to unnecessary 
trouble and upset.
Further esure appeared to be very confused about what NCD Miss M had. It first told her she 
had none, and then it told her she had two years. Then it told she had four years. Then  it 
went back to saying  she had two years. Then  it told her after the claim was completed she 
would only have four years NCD, whereas  once  the claim closed as non-fault Miss Ms NCD 
was five years as she originally thought. This caused further confusion,  which again put Miss 
M to unnecessary trouble  and upset in having  to do further on line quotes. And indeed then 
she eventually gave  up trying to assess the matter  coherently with anything  quoted  by other  
insurers and just went with the quote  of £563.58, still being led to believe her refund would 
be much  greater than it was.
So I think this lack of coherent  service by esure most especially the repeated incorrect NCD 
information did put Miss M to unnecessary trouble and upset for which esure  needs  to 
compensate her. I consider  the £100 suggested by the adjudicator to be fair. Its in line with 
what I would  have  awarded, had she not already suggested  it.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require esure  Insurance Limited  to pay Miss M the sum of £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0451760