K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about W.R. Berkley Europe  AG (WRB) decision to reject  a claim for damage 
to a flat and restaurant under a commercial property insurance policy.
Mr K represents the interests of two policyholders,  himself and another who has sadly  
passed away, and is represented by solicitors.  For ease Ill simply refer to Mr K in this 
decision.
background
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold  
this complaint. I set out the background  circumstances in that decision and dont intend to 
rehearse them again here.  But a summary is as follows:
The complaint centres  around a claim for theft and damage (malicious  and escape  of water) 
from August 2016. The affected property was let out as two concerns  a residential 
apartment and a restaurant. Enquiries by WRB concluded that the restaurant  and flat had 
been unoccupied and so fell outside  the scope of policy cover.  
Mr K says he had serious health issues that impacted his ability to look after the property. 
And the other  policyholder  suffered from dementia and Mr K had to care for him and other  
family matters. The solicitors take the view that these circumstances coupled with the 
unoccupancy of a short period should lead WRB to reconsider its approach to the claim.
Our investigation showed the tenant (of the flat) had stopped paying rent in March 2016  and 
moved out on or around  19 July 2016.  The period of unoccupancy was therefore more  than 
a calendar month at 35 days. The policy required immediate notification when part of a 
building was to become  occupied, and / or when it is to become unoccupied for a continuous 
period of 21 days or more. The investigator found that such changes  werent  notified  to WRB 
and so it hadnt acted unfairly in relying on this part of the policy.
For the restaurant, the investigator found it more likely that unoccupancy  started  in April 
2016 when the restaurant had ceased  trading. The policy  had a vacant premises  warranty 
which detailed several matters that needed  to be addressed, such  as how the property 
should be protected. And, additionally,  insurance cover was limited to certain events (Fire, 
Lightning, Explosion and Aircraft only perils).  The investigator found no evidence  of 
compliance with the warranty and said WRB  had acted fairly in rejecting  the claim given 
unoccupancy increased risk.
Mr Ks solicitors  accepted  the investigators opinion  on the flat but not for the restaurant 
saying;
-The policy didnt say the premises had to be used for a specific  purpose.
-WRBs stated position is limited to the cessation  of trading in April 2016 and the 
mistaken assumption that the property had been  unoccupied  since.
-The restaurant owner has stated he visited the premises three times per week and 
that would  be in line with the Financial Ombudsman  Services approach  to 
occupation.
-The investigators interpretation is the least favourable  to the Mr K.
Ref: DRN07452662my provisional findings
I set out my provisional  findings below, as detailed in my provisional  decision:
Mr Ks solicitors  have accepted that there is no policy coverage for the flat for the claim at 
the heart of this complaint.  So, the unresolved issue is that of the restaurant,  and this is the 
focus of my decision.
Ill start by saying that this service is about alternative dispute  resolution. Were not bound by 
and neither have  we the same powers as a court.  Were  not limited  to submissions made  by 
the parties and instead have an inquisitorial  function  that allows us to look beyond simply 
what the parties say. 
One of the points raised by the solicitors is that WRBs position  is limited to the cessation of 
trading in April 2016  and the mistaken assumption  that the property had been unoccupied 
since. The main area of contention is really whether the unoccupied buildings  warranty  
applies. This is described in the policy as follows;
1. Unoccupied Buildings Warranty
It is warranted that the Insured shall notify the Underwriters in writing immediately the 
Insured becomes aware  that
(a) an unoccupied  building or portion of an unoccupied building  has or is due to become 
tenanted giving the Underwriters full details of the purposes for which  it is to be used
(b)a building  or portion of a building  is or is to become unoccupied or is to be left without 
regular daily occupation for a continuous  period of 21 days  or more
The Insured  may be required  to pay an additional  premium
This is clearly of relevance as is a general condition  in the policy  which explains what 
happens where a warranty  isnt complied  with;
Every warranty shall from the time that the warranty attaches apply  and continue  to be in 
force during  the whole  currency of this policy Non-compliance with any such warranty insofar  
as it increases the risk shall be a bar to any claim. (my underlining)
As far as I can see from the policy unoccupied or variation thereof isnt specifically defined.  
That doesnt  mean WRB cant rely on it, but I think  a relevant approach is to consider how a 
court would approach it. The court seeks to ascertain what a reasonable person would have 
understood the parties to have meant  by the language used in the contract   here the 
insurance policy. The reasonable  person has all the background knowledge which  would 
reasonably have been available to both parties in the circumstances they were in at the time 
of the contract. The parties  subjective  intentions are irrelevant. 
Where there are rival interpretations of a contract, the court can take into account which 
interpretation is more  consistent with business common  sense.  And the contra proferentem 
rule will only apply if the contract is genuinely ambiguous  and the meaning cannot be 
resolved through the process set out above.
Mr Ks position is that it was sufficient for the premises to be classed as occupied based on 
the statement  of the restaurant owner and the claimed visitations three times weekly. I note 
from the vacant premises  warranty that in respect  of unoccupied premises various  
Ref: DRN07452663mitigating measures for the insured to take are detailed. Policy cover is reduced  to Fire 
and/or Lightning,  Explosion and Aircraft only, and importantly there is a requirement that the 
premises are to be visited on an at least a weekly basis by the Insured or his designated 
representative. And any defects found are to be remedied immediately and a record  of these 
visits is to be kept. 
The relevance of this is that reading  the contract in its entirety suggests occupancy  isnt met 
simply on the basis of visitation alone.  Visiting at least every week is a requirement for 
unoccupied portions of the premises, so Im not persuaded that visiting three times a week  
means or equates to the property being occupied  for the purposes of the contract of 
insurance. 
The policy gives further relevance to this issue in describing an exclusion for damage where 
the premises are unoccupied  under the material damage Insured Perils  and Specific 
Exclusions. Here theres no cover for damage  by bursting or overflowing or leakage  while  
the premises are vacant or unoccupied.  But the exclusion does not apply while  the premises  
are normally  closed outside business  hours or for holidays or weekends. In terms of 
business common sense,  I think this shows there  will be times the restaurant is unoccupied 
in ordinary business usage such as between closure and opening after trade and indeed any 
holiday periods  of closure such  as bank holidays or similar. And during those times the 
contractual position is that the premises wouldnt  be unoccupied.
And Im also mindful that the unoccupied  buildings warranty  states;
(a)a building  or portion of a building  is or is to become unoccupied or is to be left without 
regular daily occupation for a continuous  period of 21 days  or more
So, having  taken that all into account,  the warranties involved here in the interpretation of 
unoccupied must as a matter of logic and common sense mean something more  permanent 
like when the business ceases to trade, such as in this case.  The restaurant closed in April 
2016 because  it moved to a new venue and no longer  operated from the rented premises.  
And whats apparent  from the restaurant owner  is after that point there  were,  at its height, 
only ad hoc visits with no detail about  duration and very little persuasive detail (in my view) 
about why. 
What is also apparent from the restaurant  owners statement is that he was in dispute with 
Mr K from spring 2016 over a number of issues.  And in late July 2016 served a notice to 
quit which Mr K didnt  accept and involved solicitors. This of itself would trigger the change 
of tenancy or trade warranty, which wasnt complied with; 
It is warranted that the Insured shall notify the Underwriters in writing immediately the 
Insured becomes aware  that the tenancy  or trade of the building or any portion of the 
building changes or is due to change.
Mr Ks solicitors  have made  reference to our approach to unoccupied, but that reference is 
easily distinguishable from this case. First it concerned a home  residential policy and one 
where we accepted the evidence of regular visitation with overnight  stays. And of course, it 
wasnt in a commercial context like Mr Ks case. 
Ive carefully considered  the restaurant  owners  statement  but have some concerns. The 
solicitors have provided evidence of an agreement  between  Mr K and the other policyholder  
as claimants, against the restaurant  owner and another defendant.  Its apparent that the 
Ref: DRN07452664agreement concerns issues around the tenancy agreement  and part of the proceedings were 
stayed pending  the outcome of this complaint  about  the insurance  claim. The outcome of 
this complaint has financial consequences  for the defendants and claimants. For example, if 
the claim is paid it either reduces the amount the defendants pay Mr K or indeed, they may 
receive further money from Mr K depending on the outcome.
 
So, there is a potential motivation for the restaurant  owner to provide information  that assists  
a favourable outcome in this complaint. And because of that I am cautious about  the weight I 
attach to the restaurant owners statement. As I set out at the beginning of this decision, we 
dont have the same powers of a court, for example we cant take evidence on oath or cross 
examine witnesses to test the integrity and veracity of their evidence. What  we can do is 
make an assessment based on all the information.
To that end, even  if I accepted the restaurant  owner visited  the premise three  times  a week, I 
am not persuaded that equates  to the premises being occupied  in this case. Theres  no 
detail about the duration  of any visitation and certainly  there are no records  to support such  
a schedule. I accept  that the restaurants  cessation  of trade and moving  to another  location 
is persuasive evidence  that the premises were, for the purposes of the contract, unoccupied. 
Im not persuaded it has been  shown  there  was any other  business  or going concern being  
carried out at the premises. And, in being cautious  about the weight I attach to the 
statement, Im not persuaded there  was any regular visitation as claimed  the contents of 
the statement  may assist  the owners potential  liability in other proceedings and that 
motivation is why Im not attaching much weight to some  of the contents of the statement.
In summary,  Im not satisfied the premises were occupied and Im persuaded Mr K was 
aware of a change  given  the notice to quit that needed to be notified to WRB immediately. 
That wasnt  done  and breached the terms of the change of tenancy  or trade warranty. In 
any case, the premises were in my view unoccupied  so WRB was fairly entitled to rely on the 
relevant policy  terms that limited insurance coverage to Fire and/or  Lightning,  Explosion  and 
Aircraft only.  It is well-known that unoccupied premises increase the risk of damage or an 
insured event occurring.  Therefore, the claim for malicious damage,  escape of water and 
theft were fairly declined.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any replies from the parties to my provisional decision despite  a deadline of 
25 January 2021  being  set, expressed  in my provisional decision and in the covering email  
accompanying that decision. While the parties  are invited to reply  they dont have to.
Having considered everything  carefully  again,  Ive reached the same findings  as detailed in 
my provisional decision and italicised above. Im not satisfied  that Mr Ks premises insured 
under the policy  were  occupied. I find its more likely than not that he was aware given the 
notice to quit issued  by the tenant and so that needed to be notified to WRB immediately. 
That wasnt  done  and breached the terms of the change of tenancy  or trade warranty. 
In any case, WRB was fairly entitled  to rely on the relevant policy terms that limited  
insurance coverage to Fire and/or Lightning,  Explosion and Aircraft only because  the 
premises were  unoccupied. It is well known that unoccupied premises  increase  the risk of 
Ref: DRN07452665damage or an insured event occurring because  theres no occupant. Therefore, the claim for 
malicious damage, escape of water  and theft were fairly declined.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2021.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0745266