K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Shop  Direct  Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) hasnt issued a 
refund for an item she returned.
background
In November 2016 Ms P purchased a bike from Very on Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) terms. 
She says she returned the bike in December 2016/  January 2017 but that her account hasnt 
been credited.
Ms P only realised that her account  hadnt been credited in October  2017  when the BNPL  
period expired. She has since cleared the balance but wants  Very to refund her.
Very has said that the item cant be refunded without  a proof of return. It says it has asked  
Ms P to provide this but she hasnt done so.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that without a proof  of return or some  
other confirmation that the bike had been returned  to Very, she was unable to say that the 
business had acted incorrectly.
Ms P didnt agree. She said the bike had been  collected from her sons address by Verys  
carrier and that all of the paperwork was fixed to the bike. Ms P said that when she realised 
her account  hadnt  been credited, she asked the courier for a return  number but was told 
that because of the passage of time it want possible to locate a return number. Subsequently 
Ms P provided a return number to this service but the courier was unable  to match it on its 
systems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold  this complaint, I would need  to be satisfied that the bike was returned  to 
Very. Id expect to see evidence such a proof of return number or a receipt from the courier 
confirming that the item was collected.
Ms P has explained that she purchased the bike for her son and that he was in possession  
of it at his address when the courier collected  it. Ive looked at the process followed by the 
courier when items  are collected. The courier would  have provided a receipt  with a reference 
number as proof of return, so that the item can be traced back  to the returns centre. In this 
case, Ms P hasnt been  able to provide a returns number and the courier  hasnt been able to 
trace the item.
Very has explained  that without a proof  of return,  it is unable  to credit  Ms Ps account. I dont 
think Very has acted  unreasonably in adopting  this position.
I appreciate that this has been both an upsetting and frustrating experience for Ms P. But I 
havent seen any evidence to show that the bike was collected  by the courier, so Im unable  
to safely conclude that the bike was returned to Very. I cant  be certain  of what happened  to 
the bike but I dont  think  Very has acted  unreasonably so I wont be asking it to credit the 
account. 
Ref: DRN00301692my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0030169