K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that a motorbike supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) wasnt  of satisfactory quality.  
background
In July 2015 Mr R took out a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS  for a used motorbike. 
The motorbike was just over a year old and had covered 797 miles when it was supplied. 
The cash  price was £12,995.
Mr R contacted the dealership in July 2017  to report that the motorbike had areas  of 
corrosion. The motorbike  went in for repairs in October 2017. Mr R was asked to pay £945 
towards the cost of repairs.  BMWFS  issued  a response to his complaint and contributed 
£300 towards the corrosion repairs.
Following the corrosion repairs Mr R reported a number of issues,  including the motorbike 
going into limp mode, the clutch  and issues with the suspension. These faults  were  repaired. 
Mr R reported further issues with corrosion and surging.  He wanted to reject  the motorbike 
and complained to BMWFS.
BMWFS didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint; it said the motorbike was of satisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied.  It made a goodwill  offer of £1,000 credit  towards  another  motorbike 
with the dealership and agreed to refund  £169.39 (one monthly  repayment)  for the delay in 
dealing with his complaint.  
Mr R was unhappy with this response, so he brought  his complaint to our service.
Due to the ongoing issues with the motorbike Mr R part exchanged it and settled the 
agreement early. Mr R didnt  want the same make  of motorbike  so he didnt use the £1,000 
credit offered.
Our investigator looked into the case.  He didnt think that the motorbike was of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied because of all the things that had gone wrong. To put things 
right he said BMWFS should refund  Mr Rs deposit and the £645 he paid towards  corrosion 
repairs. He also said it should refund  the cost of the additional accessories Mr R had sold his 
motorbike with to achieve the settlement figure.   
BMWFS disagreed; it said that if the problems were present  or developing at the point of 
supply it would have  expected them to arise earlier. It asked for an ombudsman to make  a 
final decision.
I let both parties know that I didnt think the motorbike was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply, because  I didnt think it wasnt sufficiently durable given the level of corrosion 
experienced for the age, mileage and cost of the motorbike. I said that BMWFS should 
refund Mr Rs deposit and the cost of the extra accessories, along with interest. I said it 
should pay Mr R £350 compensation  to reflect the delay in dealing with his complaint and 
the inconvenience caused.  I also said BMWFS should remove any adverse information  it 
may have  recorded  about the agreement on Mr Rs credit file. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond  to me. Mr R confirmed  he agreed with me. 
BMWFS didnt respond. 
Ref: DRN09974042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint and 
Ill explain  why;
Ive looked at the job sheets and there is no dispute  that Mr R experienced a number of 
problems with the motorbike;
July 2017  Mr R reports that the motorbike has areas of corrosion.
November 2017 corrosion repairs completed on crank cases, cylinder heads,  front 
engine cover, swing arm and rear wheel.
November 2017 A day after corrosion  repairs were  completed Mr R reports  
problems with changing gears.  Clutch repaired.
November 2017 Mr R reports problems with the suspension.  The rear shock  
absorber was replaced.
January 2018  Mr R reports further  area of corrosion  to the gearbox, the gearbox 
housing was replaced.
February 2018  Mr R reports the motorbike going into limp mode. The throttle valve 
was recalibrated.
Mr R paid £645 towards the cost of the initial corrosion repairs, the other repairs  were 
carried out at no cost to him. 
Following the repairs  Mr R said he was still having  ongoing problems with surging and there 
was still corrosion on the frame of the motorbike. He complained to BMWFS about the 
quality of the motorbike and wanted to reject  it. 
BMWFS said there  wasnt any evidence to show that any of the faults were  present at the 
point of supply.  It noted  that Mr R didnt report any problems  until the motorbike was nearly 
three years old, hed had it for two years  and it had completed approximately  12,000  miles; it 
said the motorbike  was of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied to Mr R, so it didnt allow 
him to reject  the motorbike.
Mr R part exchanged the motorbike; he didnt use the £1,000  credit  offered by BMWFS.  
Under the relevant legislation (Supply of Goods Act 1973)   a term is implied that goods 
supplied should  be of satisfactory  quality.  As the finance provider BMWFS is responsible  for 
the quality of the motorbike provided under the agreement. 
For the motorbike  to be of satisfactory  quality it should meet  the standard that a reasonable 
person would expect,  taking  into account  the relevant circumstances such as age, mileage 
and price paid. In addition the following factors (amongst others) are to be taken into account 
in determining whether goods are of satisfactory  quality; durability,  fitness for purpose  and 
appearance and finish. 
Mr R says that the motorbike still had rust on the bolts and frame, under  the seating  area.  He 
also said the motorbike  was intermittently surging, losing power and that the engine 
management light was coming on intermittently. 
Ref: DRN09974043The motorbike has now been sold and unfortunately we dont have an engineers  report  to 
give an opinion on whether the problems  were likely to have  been  developing or present 
when Mr R got the motorbike. Where  evidence is missing like it is here, I make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely  to have happened, taking into consideration all the 
circumstances. 
I can see from the images that the motorbike had significant corrosion and the job sheets 
show that extensive repairs were carried out to repair the corrosion to the engine,  swing  arm, 
rear wheel and later to the gearbox. The cash price for the motorbike was £12,995,  the 
corrosion repair costs  totalled over £10,000.
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect such extensive corrosion to be present on a 
three year old motorbike, thats completed  approximately 12,000  miles.  Although  significant  
corrosion repairs were  completed, corrosion remained on the frame  of the motorbike. Given 
the extent of the previous  problems with corrosion and the outstanding rust on the frame,  I 
think its likely that the motorbike had an underlying corrosion/rust issue. And I have not seen 
anything to suggest that Mr R was in any way responsible for the corrosion.  I think  its more 
likely than not that motorbike had an inherent fault that was either developing or present, 
when the motorbike was supplied. Given the level of corrosion I dont think  the motorbike 
was sufficiently durable, so I dont  think the motorbike was of satisfactory  quality, when it 
was supplied to Mr R. 
It is not clear  what caused the other  faults or why Mr R continued to experience problems 
with surging and a loss of power. Its possible that these faults were linked to the extensive 
corrosion repairs, which required the motorbike to be stripped. However,  as Im already  
satisfied that the motorbike  wasnt  of satisfactory quality due to the ongoing  corrosion 
problem, I dont need to consider further whether  these faults were present at the point of 
sale.
Several attempts were  made to repair the motorbike, but the corrosion issue  remained.  So I 
think BMWFS  should  have let Mr R reject  the motorbike. Of course this is no longer possible, 
as Mr R part exchanged  the motorbike and settled his agreement. In the circumstances I 
think it would  be fair for BMWFS to put Mr R back in the position  he would have been in, if it 
had allowed him to reject the motorbike. So I think BMWFS should now refund Mr Rs 
deposit and refund him the £645  he paid towards  the corrosion repairs, along with interest.
Mr R got £9,000 when he part exchanged the motorbike. He used £8,493.90 to settle  his 
agreement and he put the remaining £506.10 towards his new motorbike. In order  to reach 
the settlement  figure Mr R sold his motorbike with £2,077 worth of additional  accessories.  If 
hed been allowed to reject the motorbike he wouldnt have had to sell these items. I can see 
that Mr R received an extra £506.10  from the part exchange; he wouldnt have got this if hed 
rejected the motorbike; so I think that BMWFS should refund him the £2,077 cost of 
accessories, less the extra £506.10  he received along with interest.
Mr R had to take the motorbike back  to the garage on several  occasions  to be repaired and 
he was only given a replacement on one of these  occasions. In addition  BMWFS  delayed  
responding to his complaint. I think this caused Mr R a lot of inconvenience; to reflect this I 
think BMWFS  should  pay him £350  compensation. I also think it would be fair for BMWFS to 
remove any adverse information  it may have recorded on his credit file in respect  of the 
agreement.
Ref: DRN09974044my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require BMW  Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited to;
refund  Mr R the £750 deposit he paid when he took out the agreement*
refund  the £645 Mr R paid towards  the corrosion repairs *
refund  Mr R the £1,570.90 cost of his accessories (£2,077  cost of accessories, less 
the extra £506.10 received on the part exchange)  *
pay Mr R £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused
remove any negative entries made  on Mr Rs credit file
*BMWFS should pay 8% per year simple interest  on these payments from the date that Mr R 
paid them until he gets them back (in respect of refunding the cost of the accessories, 
interest should be paid from the date Mr R part exchanged the motorbike until the date he 
gets the money back). If BMWFS thinks that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN0997404