K822xcomplaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold the following insurance policies by an appointed representative 
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited  (L&G):
Critical illness cover (CIC) also including decreasing  term assurance  (DTA)
Mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI)
For ease of reference, Ill only refer to L&G as the seller.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018  and it included  the following:
Mr B took out a mortgage in 2007  and also bought CIC/DTA and PPI. 
The CIC element  paid out a lump sum if Mr B was diagnosed  with a specified  critical  illness.  
The DTA element   included with the CIC at no extra charge  paid out a lump  sum if he 
died during the term of the cover. The PPI paid a monthly benefit if Mr B was unable to work  
due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr B disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with each  of the main complaint points, as I see them, in turn. Ive done  so bearing in 
mind the policies were  sold several  years ago. Which has meant,  understandably,  some of 
the information from the relevant times no longer available. 
PPI sale 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this part of the complaint. Ill explain why.
L&G recommended  the PPI to Mr B. As such,  among  other things, it should have checked 
that its recommendation was suitable  for him based on his circumstances. 
Mr B argues  he didnt  need PPI as he already held similar cover with his employer at the 
time. On initially reviewing the case I was satisfied, given who his employer was at the time, 
his length of service  and the seniority  of his role, that he was probably  entitled to generous 
benefits.
In any case, through one of our adjudicators I asked Mr B to contact his employer  for more 
specific information about his benefits.  His employer wrote to confirm  that by the time of the 
PPI sale he was covered,  among other things, by a group income protection  scheme. That 
meant if he was incapacitated  from working  hed have received 75% of his basic salary  plus 
Ref: DRN05486592his average income  from commission for the last three years,  less state  incapacity  benefit. 
So the benefits were considerable and likely could have been paid until he reached 
retirement. 
That being  the case, Im satisfied there was a significant overlap between his group scheme  
benefits and the accident and sickness element of the PPI L&G sold him. I consider that the 
overlap meant the PPI as a whole was unsuitable  for him and shouldnt have been  sold to 
him  at least,  not without  a clear explanation as to what the consequences of him holding 
both policies were  likely  to be. I cant see that such a discussion took place. 
L&G says it checked  with Mr B to see if he had any existing policies but that he didnt. Mr B 
says he told the adviser  about his employer benefits. Clearly, the parties  disagree  on this 
issue and I cant say for sure what happened. I can see that L&Gs  letter summarising  his 
demands and needs  stated You  have  not provided  details  of any existing policies. But 
taking into account  that the copy letter included spaces  for Mr B and the adviser to sign but 
appears to have gone unsigned by either, I cant be certain that I can safely rely on it to 
show thats what Mr B told L&G. 
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that Mr B was mis-sold the PPI and that L&G 
should put things right for him.
CIC/DTA sale 
Mr B says he had sufficient cover through  his employer  to protect him against loss of income  
and that he didnt need CIC either. Although I agree he was largely  protected against loss of 
regular income (see above), I dont think the same could be said for critical illness.  
I say that because, whereas the income  protection policy provided a monthly benefit if Mr B 
was incapacitated, the CIC provided  a lump  sum that, for example, could have paid been 
used towards paying off his mortgage if he was diagnosed with a critical illness.  Given that 
the policies covered different things,  I dont think the existence of the income protection 
cover meant CIC was inappropriate for him. 
Mr Bs employers  confirmed he was entitled to four times his basic  annual salary  under the 
group life scheme. Ive thought about  whether that meant he wouldnt have taken the 
CIC/DTA as a package.  But, as I understand it, the DTA element was provided  free of 
charge to Mr B (as, I gather, it was to all L&G customers  from 2003  onwards) as part and 
parcel of the CIC. So I see no reason why the CIC/DTA wasnt  suitable for him.
Ive thought carefully about some of the facts  surrounding  the sale of the CIC/DTA, such  as 
the sum assured being slightly more  than Mr B owed on his mortgage. I also note that the 
term of the policy  was shorter than the term of the mortgage by a year. But these differences  
arent significant enough to lead me to believe the cover was inappropriate for him. And, in 
the case of the mis-match between terms, its possible from L&Gs demands and need letter  
that it pointed  this out to Mr B although I cant be sure.
Overall, Im satisfied that L&G doesnt  need to refund the cost of the CIC/DTA to Mr B.
Ref: DRN05486593putting things right regarding the PPI
L&G should  put Mr B in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and L&G should:
Pay Mr B the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back.  The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, L&G can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires L&G to take off tax from this interest.  L&G must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive provisionally  decided  to uphold  this complaint in part. I intend to 
require Legal  & General Partnership  Services Limited to put things right for Mr B regarding  
the PPI as explained above.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond  with any further evidence or information they 
might have before I reconsidered the case.  
In the meantime, L&Gs put an offer to Mr B in line with my provisional decision and 
confirmed its agreement  with it. Mr B wasnt minded to agree  with my provisional decision or 
to accept L&Gs offer. He said Id found that L&G hadnt properly assessed  his demands and 
needs regarding  the PPI and that, as it couldnt provide evidence  hed agreed  to the 
recommendation that he take out CIC/DTA I should uphold that aspect of the complaint as 
well. He also said there was no side-by-side comparison between  the cover  L&G was 
recommending and the cover he already had, which meant he wasnt  given the opportunity 
to make an informed choice about  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PPI sale
Neither of the parties has suggested that they disagree with my provisional findings with 
regard to the sale of the PPI. As such, I see no need to depart  from my provisional  decision 
on this matter. 
Id only add that L&G should  now pay Mr B compensation for the PPI it sold if it hasnt 
already done so.
CIC/DTA sale 
Mr Bs questioned whether L&G can provide evidence  that he accepted  its recommendation 
that he take out this policy. As I say, I dont know for sure if he saw the letter  summarising 
Ref: DRN05486594his demands and needs. But, when  I issued my provisional decision, I was of the view that 
the evidence showed, on balance, that he chose to take out the policy knowing he didnt 
have to.
I say that because, for example, the insurer issued a letter to L&G in March  2007 which 
opened with the sentence Thank you for your clients  application  for [CIC/DTA]. That Mr B 
submitted a separate application  form for the policy suggests he opted to take out this policy.
Regarding L&G not providing a comparison of Mr Bs existing cover with the recommended  
cover, I dont consider that this would have made a difference to his decision to take out the 
policy. Thats because,  as I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont  believe he held 
sufficient existing cover to make the recommended cover unsuitable. 
For example, I cant see that Mr B already held cover that would have  protected him in the 
event of diagnosis  of a critical illness as the recommended policy  did. Im aware that Mr B 
was covered by a group life scheme  through his employer but, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that the DTA element of the recommended policy  which 
covered him in the event  of his death   was provided at no extra cost to Mr B. So I cant see 
how a comparison would  have stopped  Mr B from taking out the policy.
summary
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that L&G should refund the cost of the PPI to 
Mr B but not the cost of the CIC/DTA.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Legal & 
General Partnership  Services Limited  to put things right for Mr B regarding the PPI as 
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0548659