K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Grove Pension Solutions  Limited (GPS) mis-advised her to transfer  her 
deferred Occupational Pension  Scheme  (OPS) benefits into a personal  pension in order  to 
release funds.
background
GPS says it was approached by Mrs S several times  between  2014 and 2016, as she 
wanted to release the tax-free lump sum from a deferred OPS.  GPS say it advised  Mrs S not 
to transfer her pension  on several occasions.  But in 2016  GPS recommended the transfer of 
Mrs Ss OPS into a personal  pension.  They said Mrs Ss circumstances  had changed and 
she required  the maximum  tax-free lump sum from her pension. 
Mrs S says she cannot recall getting  advice from GPS until 2016.  And says it was GPS that 
called her and started the discussions about transferring her pension.  
Mrs S gave GPS authority to approach her OPS to get a transfer valuation quote.  The OPS  
provided a transfer  valuation  of Mrs Ss pension of £60,498 which was valid for three 
months. The OPS also provided  details  of the benefits of Mrs Ss pension. The following was 
based on a retirement  age of 65; 
£14,092 maximum tax-free cash lump sum and an annual pension  of £2,113 paid 
monthly and increased by three  percent every year, or;
£5,361 tax free cash lump sum and an annual pension of £2,737 paid monthly  and 
increased by three percent every  year.
Spouse's pension of 50% of the benefits  payable if she died after the first five years 
of taking her pension. If she died in the first five years her spouse  would  additionally 
have received the balance payable over the first five years.
The OPS  also gave  Mrs S the option of taking her benefits immediately at a lower value of;
£5,899.60  tax free cash lump sum and an annual pension of £1,999.32 paid monthly  
and increased  by three percent  every  year.
In August  2016  GPS produced a report recommending Mrs S transfer her OPS pension  into 
a personal pension. The pension report contained  information about Mrs Ss personal 
circumstances that GPS say she provided at the time of the advice. Amongst other things, it 
recorded;
She was 58 years  old and in good health.
She was single with two children who werent dependant on her. 
She was a self-employed food vendor  and wouldnt  receive  an income if she was ill. 
Her business had only been going  for three  months. And this had been over the 
summer period  when  she was likely to be busier but was hoping her income  would 
grow.
Her monthly income  was £1,235 which matched her monthly  expenditure.
She required a minimum income of £1,300  per month.
She had a debt consolidation arrangement for a £7,000 debt but wasnt paying 
interest or charges.
Her credit rating was terrible, and shed been declined  for a credit card. 
She had no other savings or assets.  
Ref: DRN05203532Her anticipated retirement  age was 68 and said she didnt necessarily anticipate  
retiring at state  retirement age. 
The report  also recorded Mrs Ss objectives for her pension and why she wanted to release 
funds, it said;
She needed the maximum tax-free cash available to her.
She needed funds  to pay £1,500  rent for her business pitch. And to furnish her flat, 
which she estimated at £3,000.
She needed a buffer fund due to the seasonal nature of her business. 
She wanted to clear  her debts. 
GPS also recorded  that it discussed Mrs Ss attitude to investment risk and investment 
experience. It said Mrs S had little investment experience but understood, the greater the 
risk the greater the potential for return however equally the more  she could lose out. It also 
recorded she had an attitude to risk of Cautious as this was her only pension and she 
generally wasnt a risk taker.
Ultimately GPS recommended  Mrs S transfer her pensions.  It said Having analysed your 
options and given the information you have provided  about your views and circumstances, 
along with what  you are trying to achieve, I recommend that you transfer your pension...
Mrs S accepted GPSs  recommendation to transfer her pension  and did so in late 2016.  
In 2018 Mrs S complained to GPS via a representative. She said she had recently been 
diagnosed with cancer in 2016 and so she needed  funds to meet  her living  costs and 
expenses whilst in recovery. Mrs S asked if there  had been a better way to raise the cash  
she needed. She said a retirement age of 68 had been used for the figures when she could 
have received her OPS  at 65. And Mrs S also questioned the fees paid to GPS as it 
amounted to £4,537 or 10% of her fund, which seemed excessive. 
In her complaint Mrs S also asked what shed been  getting for the 1% fee shed been paying 
GPS each year. And asked if it could be stopped. Lastly, Mrs S felt she was pressured into 
making a quick decision  on the transfer  as GPS said the figures  were  only guaranteed  for a 
limited period.
In response GPS said it had been  unaware of Mrs Ss illness and the need for funds  during  
recovery. In the fact find it had recorded  Mrs Ss health as good. And this hadnt  been 
questioned by Mrs S when she was sent the information. The policy had been set up with a 
retirement age of 68 as Mrs S had told them she didnt have any long-term retirement plans. 
And the personal  pension could be taken earlier than 68 without penalties.  
GPS said its fees were disclosed to Mrs S prior to the transfer and so she could have used 
another firm if she felt they were excessive. GPS said it charged a 1% fee for an annual  
review of the pension  and to deal with any enquiries Mrs S had. And could  be stopped at any 
time. Finally, GPS  said it didnt pressure  Mrs S into the transfer, it just pointed  out the 
timescale remaining  on the transfer valuation.
Mrs S was unhappy with GPSs response and so brought her complaint to us. GPS told us it 
felt its advice was suitable. And it had only recommended the transfer after several  years  of 
enquiries from Mrs S because her circumstances  had changed  making the transfer to be in 
her best interest.  
Ref: DRN05203533I sent Mrs S and GPS  my provisional decision on 19 January 2021. I explained that I thought  
GPSs recommendation  for Mrs S to transfer  her OPS benefits was suitable given the 
circumstances. And I invited any further  comments from either side.  Ive copied my 
provisional findings below.
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said;
The industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), issued guidance for transfers  
in circumstances  like this one. It said;
When advising a retail  client  who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits  whether to 
transfer, convert  or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or 
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a transfer, conversion  or opt-out  
to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, 
conversion  or opt-out is in the client's  best interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
So, my role in cases such as these, is to determine whether GPS have clearly  
demonstrated, on contemporary evidence the transfer of Mrs Ss OPS benefits was in her 
best interests. And Im minded to say, unless anything changes my mind,  GPSs advice was 
suitable. Ill explain why.
GPS said the critical yield  the average  annual returns Mrs Ss new pension would need to 
achieve in order  to match the benefits of her OPS  - was 6.7%. In its report it said Taking into 
account your attitude to investment risk the critical yield definitely  would  not be achievable. 
You should therefore be in no doubt that this transfer does not represent  good value and 
your overall pension provision will suffer as a result  of the transaction.   
I think this was a reasonable statement to make considering Mrs S had a cautious attitude  to 
risk. It was very unlikely  the average annual returns on a cautious investment at that time 
could have achieved  6.7%, let alone  exceeded  it. But GPS says its advice  wasnt  based on 
increasing or even  matching the financial benefit  of Mrs Ss previous pension. The rules 
allowed a firm to recommend a transfer  if it met their clients  other  needs  or objectives. But in 
order for me to say GPS advice was suitable,  it would have to provide good evidence that it 
was in Mrs Ss best interests. So, Ive considered what Mrs Ss needs and objectives were  at 
the time.   
Its recorded that Mrs Ss primary objective was to release funds from her pension. And Its 
clear Mrs S had a pressing need for essential funds. Which included  paying the rent for her 
food van pitch,  furnishing  her home  and creating a buffer fund. 
GPS also say it was important for Mrs S to have  funds  to repay her debt. Whilst I 
acknowledge Mrs S may have considered it a priority to repay her debt using her pension  
funds. I dont think GPS should have included  this figure in its calculation for essential 
funds. Thats  because, the debt was already consolidated into a debt management plan. And 
no interest or fees were being  added,  so the debt wouldnt  have increased  if Mrs S wasnt 
able to pay it off. Mrs S was making minimal repayments and it would have taken many 
years to pay off. However, Mrs S hoped her income  would increase  in the future  as her 
business grew. So, she may have  been able to afford larger  repayments  in the future. 
Ref: DRN05203534Therefore, I dont think she had an immediate need  to pay off this debt. So, it follows that it 
shouldnt have been included in the essential  funds Mrs S required.
But Mrs S had other immediate needs. She needed  £1,500 to pay her annual  pitch fees for 
her business. Without this Mrs S wouldnt have an income. She also estimated she required  
£3,000 to furnish her flat as she had limited furniture.
It was recorded  Mrs S also needed  a buffer  fund.  Mrs S says this is because  she had been 
diagnosed with cancer and needed funds to live off whilst she recovered.  GPS say it was 
because Mrs Ss business was seasonal to an extent and so it was likely her income would 
reduce in the coming winter  months. I havent seen sufficient evidence to show  GPS  knew  of 
Mrs Ss illness. But I think  her illness adds weight to the argument that it was essential  for 
Mrs S to have a buffer  fund. I say that because, for whatever the reason, it was likely Mrs Ss 
income would  reduce  in the near future. And Mrs S was self-employed,  so any time off due 
to her illness would mean  she wouldnt have any income or sick pay.  
GPS say it calculated  the buffer fund at three months income, so £3,600. And I think  thats 
reasonable. Therefore, I think Mrs S required a total of £8,100  in essential funds.
In her complaint Mrs S asked GPS if there had been  a better way to raise  these funds. 
But GPS  had already noted in its report Mrs Ss debt management  plan had affected  her 
credit rating. And shed been declined a credit card due to her poor credit rating. I havent 
seen sufficient evidence  to suggest Mrs S had any savings or any other  way of accessing 
other funds.  So, whilst Mrs Ss OPS was her only pension provision, I dont think  there  was a 
clear alternative source of funds at the time.  
GPS considered, however, whether it would be more beneficial for Mrs S to take early  
retirement with her OPS.  And I think its quite clear  in its report  GPS thought this would 
provide the greatest total pension income. It said;
We then talked in detail about  the two options  for accessing the pension now;  either  taking 
early retirement or transferring into a personal  pension for greater flexibility  and I stressed 
that the early  retirement option would  give you the certainty of an increasing lifetime  income  
together with a lump sum now which  would  be sufficient to do most of what  you want.
I also pointed out that in the long term, the early retirement option would give you the 
greatest total pension  payout - in fact in comparison to age 87 you would actually be 
approximately 22,500 better  off by taking early  retirement rather  than transferring the 
pension.
Whilst Mrs Ss representative says she was an unsophisticated investor  and didnt 
understand her options. I think GPS made it quite clear, using plain English and giving 
monetary examples, to show Mrs S would have been worse off in the future  if she 
transferred her pension.   
Although GPS thought taking early retirement  gave the greatest benefits overall, it still 
recommended Mrs S transfer her pension. GPS  say thats because  Mrs Ss short-term goals 
were more important to her than her long-term position. 
The early  retirement option would have  given Mrs S a lump sum of £5,988.60. But thats still 
approximately £2,100 short of her essential  needs. But in comparison, by transferring Mrs S 
was able to take the maximum tax-free lump  sum of £15,124.50. And with no other  clear  way 
Ref: DRN05203535of raising these funds,  I dont think GPSs advice to Mrs S to transfer her pension was 
unsuitable given  her specific circumstances and immediate need for funds.  
I also think GPS also set out, in plain English, some  of the general risks of transferring from 
an OPS pension. It said One of the main differences with an old company pension and 
transferring into a personal arrangement  is the old scheme was promising you a pension in 
retirement and they would have to provide this, whatever the cost - there is no investment 
risk borne by you whatsoever. By transferring, the money remaining invested would have the 
risk borne by you instead. This is a very valuable  benefit of a Defined Benefit  company 
pension scheme  and a significant  loss that MUST  be taken into account  when considering  
early pension release  via a transfer.  You have to be sure this loss is a risk you are prepared 
to accept.
So, I think Mrs S was given enough information about the risks of transferring in order the 
make an informed decision. 
Mrs S was unhappy that GPSs report showed the possible  returns  from her new pension 
with a retirement age of 68. When her OPS  had a retirement age of 65. That meant she was 
unable to make any direct  comparison between the two schemes.  GPS  noted Mrs S 
expected retirement  age as 68 on its report as it says Mrs S enjoyed her work  and didnt 
necessarily anticipate retirement at normal retirement age. Whilst I can see why GPS used 
figures at age 68, I agree with Mrs S and I think it would have been a clearer  comparison to 
use the same retirement date for both illustrations.  
But overall, I think Mrs S had a pressing need to release funds  and it had already been  
explained to her shed be worse  off financially in the long term by transferring. So, I dont 
think different illustrations would have  been  enough  to change Mrs Ss mind and make a 
material difference to the outcome of this complaint.   
Mrs S was also unhappy with the level of fees shed paid to GPS.  But GPS  set out its fees 
quite clearly in its report as both a percentage of the fund and as a monetary figure. The fees 
werent payable  until Mrs S agreed  to the transfer  and so she could have shopped around if 
she felt they were excessive. GPS  also say it sent Mrs S its client  agreement  which  
highlights its fees.  Both documents  also set out the ongoing advisor fee of 1%. The client  
agreement notes the ongoing service  can be cancelled  with one months notice.  As Mrs S 
has told us, she was an unsophisticated investor with limited  knowledge  of investments. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for GPS to provide a review service  as it was likely 
Mrs S would require their expertise to make  future  changes to her pension  investments if 
required. 
Mrs S said she didnt  recall receiving any annual reviews from GPS  until after our 
involvement. But GPS  have sent us copies of the annual  reviews it said it sent Mrs S in 2017  
and 2018. Mrs S pointed  out the letters had an additional county  recorded  in the address. 
However, the rest of the address was correct including the postcode  and correct  country.  
Whilst GPS didnt provide  any proof of postage, it was able to produce the dated reviews  
from Mrs Ss file, so I think its more likely than not GPS  sent the annual reviews  to Mrs S. 
Finally, Mrs S says she was put under pressure to make a quick  decision by the wording 
used by GPS to point  out the guaranteed  period  of her transfer valuation.  But I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for GPS to point  out the transfer quote was only guaranteed for a certain 
period. And following  this GPS invited Mrs S to contact them to ask any further question or 
clarify any points. It also went so far as to offer a meeting face to face as it acknowledged 
Ref: DRN05203536transferring a pension  was a complicated subject.  So, I dont think  GPS put pressure on 
Mrs S to rush her decision.  
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S. But for the reasons  Ive given, I dont 
think GPSs advice to transfer her OPS benefits was unsuitable. So, Im minded not to 
uphold this complaint.  
the responses to my provisional  findings
GPS accepted my decision and havent made any further comments or submissions for me 
to consider. 
Mrs S sent several further comments for me to consider. In summary, Mrs S said;
She believed  GPS had fabricated evidence  and maintains she hadnt previously 
contacted GPS for advice.
She doesnt believe she was advised not to transfer her pension.
She was advised  to invest in an unregulated offshore fund which was unsuitable for 
her, as it didnt match her attitude to risk. And the product was withdrawn shortly after 
Mr S invested in it as it received bad reviews.
Mrs S questioned the character of GPSs staff.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also reconsidered  my provisional  
findings.
I appreciate the time Mrs S has taken  to respond  to my provisional  decision. I want  to assure 
her Ive considered  all her submissions  before reaching my decision. But Ill only comment  
on those I think are materially relevant to this complaint. And whilst I understand the points 
Mrs S makes, they havent  caused  me to change my mind.  Ill explain why. 
I appreciate why Mrs S feels  that GPS may have fabricated evidence, as it only recently sent 
us what it says are contact notes from Mrs Ss account. But its not unusual for a business 
not to send us absolutely  everything they hold on their clients. And it was only after we 
specifically asked for the contact notes, that GPS sent them. 
I understand Mrs S may like me to make a finding  on who contacted  who first and who was 
driving the transfer. But I dont think thats relevant to this complaint. I say that because 
regardless of who initiated the conversation, GPS gave a recommendation to Mrs S to 
transfer her pension. So, my role in cases such as these is to decide if that advice was 
suitable. 
As I said in my provisional findings,  although GPS pointed out Mrs S would be worse off in 
the future,  it still gave Mrs S a recommendation to transfer her pension.  So, I agree with 
Mrs S that in connection with this complaint, she wasnt told not to transfer. Therefore, the 
crux of this complaint is whether the advice  to transfer was suitable. And for the reasons Ive 
given in my provision findings, I think it was.
But GPS  not only recommended for Mrs S to transfer her pension,  they also recommended  a 
specific fund for Mrs S to transfer into. Whilst this point wasnt  in Mrs Ss original complaint 
Ref: DRN05203537to GPS, its had an opportunity to comment on the subject and its also relevant to whether 
the advice was suitable. So, Ive considered  whether the fund Mrs S was recommended  to 
invest in was suitable for her. 
GPS recommended that Mrs S invest 100% in the Axa Life Invests 30/70 fund. GPS say 
The investment is not in a "very  risky off-shore investment" as claimed but a 'mirror fund' 
offered via one of Europe's largest and longest established life assurers, for a fund 
established under  the EU's UCITS safeguards, investing the majority of its monies in UK, US 
and European  government bonds.  It is very low-risk, whether in terms of low market-risks, 
low credit default risk and low governance risks.
Typically, the 30/70 refers  to the ratio of stocks to bonds. And so, a 30/70 fund would be 
seen as a conservative  investment, weighted towards bonds. So, whilst I acknowledge 
Mrs S concerns, I dont  think  this fund is unsuitable  for a cautious investor such  as Mrs S. 
Mrs S was also concerned that the fund was withdrawn shortly after she transferred in, and it 
had very high costs.  But the information Mrs S sent us doesnt relate to the fund GPS 
recommended. Axa Life Invests fund had an annual management charge of 0.8% which 
was disclosed to Mrs S in the suitability report and is broadly in line with what Id expect for a 
managed fund. So, overall  I dont think the fund that GPS recommended Mrs S invest her 
pension in was unsuitable for her.
Mrs S has questioned the general ethical conduct  of GPSs staff.  But my decision on this 
case has to be based on the specific circumstances and evidence related to it. And I dont 
agree that the concerns  shes raised should have a bearing on the decision Ive reached.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, and those in my provisional findings,  my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0520353