K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the way she was treated in branch  by Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) when she wanted  to transfer  some funds. 
background
On 9 March 2019 Mrs B visited  a Halifax branch to transfer £30,000 from her current  
account for an investment she wanted to make. Mrs B says Halifaxs branch staff were rude 
and unhelpful  and told her they wouldnt transfer the money  because  they hadnt heard of 
the business she was paying. 
After around forty minutes and following the involvement of a manager the transfer was 
arranged and approved. 
Mrs B complained as she felt the branch staff had treated her rudely. Mrs B also feels  its not 
right for Halifax to tell her what she can do with her own money. Halifax responded on 
17 April 2019 but didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Halifax said its branch  staff can ask questions when  a customer asks to transfer money, 
especially when the amounts involved are high. Halifax  said that Mrs B didnt have 
identification with her which could have caused a problem. Halifax also said it asked 
questions because it has a duty of care to its customers to try and ensure transfers are being 
made to genuine  businesses.  
Mrs B asked our service  to look at her complaint and it was passed  to an investigator. She 
thought branch staff were acting to ensure the transfer Mrs B wanted to make was genuine. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. In response, Mrs B asked  to appeal. She 
said she hadnt given  Halifax  the right to decide  what she does with her money, the branch  
staff were very rude and other members of staff became involved.  Mrs B didnt feel the 
investigators view was in her best interests. As Mrs B didnt accept, her complaints been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as the investigator,  for broadly the same reasons. 
Mrs B says she hasnt given Halifax permission to tell her what  she can do with her money  
and I agree thats the case. But banks are obliged to ask questions if they have any 
concerns about  transfer or unusual  account activity that may not be in a customers best 
interest. I think  that Halifax had some  genuine  and reasonable  concerns when it asked 
Mrs B questions about the transfer she wanted  to make. 
Ive seen Mrs Bs statements and the transfer  she made on 9 March 2019 isnt something 
she does very often. And she transferred £30,000  which is a lot of money. Halifax  has 
provided a statement from its branch staff. They say the account information Mrs B brought 
with her was hand written  on a piece of paper which seemed unusual  for a transaction  of 
that nature.  Taking all these points together, I think Halifax was right to ask Mrs B questions  
about the transfer she wanted to make. 
Ref: DRN01067432Asking questions about  a transfer isnt the same as telling a customer  what they can do with 
their money. Im not persuaded, from what Ive seen, that Halifax was trying to tell Mrs B how 
to spend her funds.  I think it had genuine concerns and asked reasonable questions before 
agreeing to proceed with the transfer. 
Mrs B says branch staff were rude to her and it took too long to complete the transfer.  While  
investigating the complaint, Halifax got a statement  from the branch staff. They say Mrs B 
became frustrated after it asked her questions about  the transfer. The branch statement  also 
says the person who first served her was concerned that they may not be able to transfer  the 
funds because Mrs B didnt have any identification with her. However, the transfer  was 
ultimately sent successfully. 
In this case, weve got two varying versions  of what was said during Mrs Bs visit to Halifax.  
Where evidence is contradictory or unclear  I make  my decision based  on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of all the available 
information and evidence. Ive considered everything Mrs B has said as well as the 
information provided by Halifax.  
Its clear things became  heated in branch when Halifax didnt initially  process the transfer  
and asked Mrs B questions. But I dont think the branch staff Mrs B spoke to were  trying to 
be rude or tell her how to use her money.  Im sorry to disappoint  Mrs B but I havent been  
persuaded that Halifax treated her unfairly  when  she visited on 9 March  2019.
Whilst I agree Halifax cant tell Mrs B how to use her funds, it does have a responsibility to 
protect its customers  as far as possible against  fraud. In this case, Im satisfied it had 
legitimate reasons to ask Mrs B questions about  the transfer she wanted  to make. I 
understand that the transfer was entirely  genuine but that doesnt mean  Halifax was wrong 
to make enquires with Mrs B. Halifax agreed to process the transfer  after Mrs B provided 
additional information and Im satisfied  thats  reasonable.  As I havent found that Halifax  
treated Mrs B unfairly Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0106743