K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Lloyds  Bank PLC, when trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc (C&G) mis-sold 
him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr D took out a mortgage PPI policy in May 1996.  This was at a meeting with C&G at 
the same  time as he was taking out his mortgage. The policy gave him protection  
against accident, sickness and unemployment  and he paid a monthly amount for it.
In May 2001, Mr D took out a further mortgage  advance at a meeting with C&G and 
extended his PPI to cover  this extra borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our general approach to 
complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain  why.
I cant  know  what  was discussed at the meetings Mr D had with G&G. Given how long ago 
this was, I cant reasonably expect Mr D to remember  everything  from the time of sale 
either. 
Mr D said he took out PPI because the terms and conditions werent clearly explained and 
hes since learnt that it wasnt suitable  for him, given his circumstances.
C&G no longer  has Mr Ds paperwork from his 1996  mortgage and PPI application. But, 
based on what Mr Ds said, I think he probably  did understand that PPI was an optional  
extra he didnt have  to take out. I think PPI was probably added  because Mr D said he 
wanted it at the time.
Ive seen Mr Ds 2001 PPI application   hes signed  to say he wanted PPI. This was a 
separate document from his mortgage  application.  So, I think  it wouldve been clear  PPI 
was an optional and separate  product and that he didnt need to have PPI to get the 
increased borrowing. 
C&G accepts it recommended the PPI to Mr D. So, it had to check  it was right for 
him. It also had to give him information about  the policy that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so that he could decide  for himself if he wanted to buy it. 
C&G no long has a copy of the policy document that applied at the time of the 2001 
sale. But looking at a later document I think the terms and conditions were likely  to 
have been similar,  so Ive used this document when considering Mr Ds situation. 
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Ds circumstances. They didnt change  much between 
1996 and 2001. Based on what Ive seen, I think  PPI was suitable for Mr D when 
Ref: DRN03096092he took out the cover and when he increased  the amount  of cover he had. I say 
this because:
   Mr D likely met the policy requirements and was eligible for the cover;
   he was employed  and said he wouldve got six months worth of full sick 
pay from his employer,  followed  by six months  worth  of pay at half pay. He 
also said he had a small amount  of savings. The PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of his work  benefits for up to 12 months  per successful  claim. Having 
the cover wouldve  allowed him to use his work benefits and savings to 
meet his other  household expenditure,  knowing his mortgage repayments  
were protected. He couldve  made  repeated claims on the policy,  providing 
him with long term protection. So, overall,  I think the PPI couldve been 
useful for Mr D if he was sick or lost his job;
Mr D mentioned having an income  protection policy. But, this was taken out 
after he took out the PPI and there were differences in the cover, so it didnt 
provide him with exactly the same  cover in any event.
   I cant see that Mr D was affected by the main limitations or exclusions in 
the policy. So, as he couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered, 
I dont  think  having better information  about the things the policy  didnt 
cover wouldve affected his decision to take out the policy.  I think the PPI 
provided him with valuable protection to safeguard his home; and
 Ive seen  nothing to suggest that at the time of the sale the PPI wasnt
affordable. It cost him around £18.50 per month for the 1996 policy.  And when  
he increased his cover  in 2001, this cost around an extra £9 per month. He 
couldve cancelled the monthly paid policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
Overall, I think  the PPI was suitable  for Mr D.
As Ive said, C&G also had to give Mr D information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  
so that he could  make an informed choice about  the PPI. Its possible C&G couldve  given  
him clearer information, particularly about the costs and benefits of the policy. But for much 
the same  reasons that I found the PPI was suitable, I dont think  
Mr D wouldve decided not to take out PPI if better  information had been  provided.
It follows I dont think hes lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0309609