K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Zopa Limited  wrongly  asked  him to repay  a loan that was taken out in 
his name  by a third party.  
background
In April 2017 an online application was made in Mr Hs name for a £2,220 loan from Zopa. It 
was approved the same day and £1,990 was paid into Mr Hs current  account, after Zopa  
had deducted  a borrower fee of £220 and a fast track payment fee of £10. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr H made a payment of £1,800 from his current  account to, he says,  his 
flat-mates account. He explained that his flat-mate had owed him £200. His flat mate told 
him hed made an over-payment, and so Mr H transferred money  back  to his account. Mr H 
says he didnt notice  that the payment to his account had come from Zopa, and didnt realise 
that his flat-mate  had applied for the loan in order to trick him into paying the £1,800.
For several months monthly loan payments were taken by direct debit from Mr Hs current 
account. He later had those payments  refunded through the direct debit guarantee scheme,  
but Zopa said he was liable  for the loan  including for those  payments. 
Mr H maintained that his flat-mate had applied for the loan in his name and that he had 
known nothing about it. He hadnt realised that the credit to his account had come from 
Zopa, rather than from his flat-mates account; nor had he noticed that monthly payments of 
just over £100 were  being paid to Zopa from the same  account. 
Mr H referred  his complaint to this service, and one of our adjudicators considered it. He 
didnt believe however that Zopa should  write  off the loan. He noted  that: Mr H had himself 
paid the money  from his own account;  he hadnt  raised the issue of the loan payments for 
several months; and something very similar had happened with a different lender  a few 
weeks earlier. 
Mr H didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked that they be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.        
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
I note first of all that the bulk of Mr Hs loss in this case has arisen not because Zopa made a 
loan available  to him, but because he paid money from his current account. So, even if I 
were to accept that he was the victim of a fraud, it wouldnt necessarily follow that I would 
require Zopa  to write off the loan completely. He had the benefit of the loan and how he used 
the money paid into his account wasnt anything to do with Zopa.  
Further, I have to question Mr Hs account of events here. The payment into his account was 
marked Faster payments  receipts  ref. Zopa  loan  Mr H says he didnt  check  the incoming 
credit and so didnt notice this. I also note that his flat-mate told him hed paid £2,000, 
whereas the credit was actually £1,990. Hes provided screen-shots  of text messages where 
they discuss this. He suggests  he didnt  check the amount of the credit or his balance either, 
but simply transferred  £1,800 to his flat-mate. I think thats unlikely.
Ref: DRN05087392I think it unlikely too that Mr H didnt notice the loan payments leaving his account.  He said 
that he was receiving significant commission payments  at the time,  so didnt spot them.  Hes 
provided no evidence  of that though,  and theres  nothing in his current account statements to 
suggest that was the case. 
I also note that something very similar had happened  just a few weeks  earlier. Again, a loan 
was taken out in Mr Hs name, and most  of it was paid by Mr H to his flat-mate. Mr H says 
that his flat-mate  told him grandmother had sent money  for rent. Rather than send it to the 
flat-mate, however,  shed  sent it to Mr H, so he could take the rent and send the balance to 
his flat-mate. Again,  Mr H had sent the money without checking its source and hadnt 
mentioned anything for several months.  
I note that there have  been several instances  of other  lending  in Mr Hs name, and that some  
lenders have written  loans  off. Im afraid though that I believe Mr H knew rather more about  
the Zopa loan than hes been prepared to acknowledge. I think  its unlikely that his flat-mate 
 or anyone else  would have arranged for the loan to be paid into Mr Hs account in the 
hope, or expectation, that Mr H would simply transfer a large  portion of it without checking its 
source. I cannot therefore safely say that Zopa should write off the loan. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Zopa Limited  to take any further steps  to resolve  Mr 
Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
H to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0508739