K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Union Reiseversicherung  AG have refused to pay their travel 
insurance claim when they abandoned  their journey due to bad weather. 
background
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs J were due to travel on holiday but were  unable to make  their 
flight due to bad weather  - despite starting  their journey earlier  to factor  in the bad weather. 
During their journey  they made numerous attempts to contact URV AG, the airline they were 
travelling with and also the broker they booked the flights with. They  say they werent given 
any clear advice on what they should do and they struggled to get in touch  with the airline.  
They abandoned their journey after several hours of travel disruption  and realising they were 
not going to make their flights in any event. They rebooked  their flights  five days later and 
travelled on holiday  on 11 March 2018.  When they claimed under their insurance policy,  
URV AG treated their claim  as a missed departure  rather  than abandonment  of the trip. The 
maximum claim per person under missed departure  is £500 per person whereas the 
maximum claim under abandonment is £2000 per person. As a result Mr and Mrs J are out 
of pocket and want their claim to be paid under  abandonment.
URV AG say the flight departed without Mr and Mrs J as they didnt make it to the airport  and 
they were marked as a no show. They say that Mr and Mrs J dont meet  the criteria for 
abandonment and agreed  to pay the claim under  missed departure.  
The investigator at this service didnt  think  the claim could be paid under abandonment  and 
that missed departure was the correct section of the policy  for URV AG to consider. She 
didnt think URV AG had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree so this has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy to decide whether ARV UG has settled 
Mr and Mrs Js claim  fairly.  The policy gives three scenarios where  cover  is provided for 
delay and missed  flights. The first two clearly relate to issues  with the airline  or flight itself 
being delayed  and these relate to the policy limits  for delay and abandonment.  
Although Mr and Mrs J suffered significant delays in their journey these were delays that 
happened before  reaching  the airport. This element of the policy is clear in that the delays 
must be at the airport. The delay and abandonment sections of the policy are for when the 
flight is delayed. The flight wasnt delayed, they just missed it. So they wouldnt have been 
covered whether they eventually made it to the airport or not. So Im satisfied that 
abandonment doesnt apply to their situation.
The missed  departure scenario relates to problems getting to the airport   which  is what  
happened to Mr and Mrs J. They never made  it to the airport  and missed  their flight  which 
departed on time. I am persuaded that this is the relevant  section that applies to their 
situation.
Ref: DRN09925092I have listened  to the call Mr and Mrs J made to ARV UG in March  2018 when they say they 
were advised they could  abandon their trip. The advice given to Mr and Mrs J was 
dependent on them making  it to the airport and whether the flight  was delayed or cancelled.  
The information they were given didnt  actually apply in the end because  they never  made it 
to the airport and the flight departed on time. By their own admission they were never going 
to make that flight.  So the phone call and what they were told doesnt really  matter here 
because it couldnt  have affected their ability to be covered under the policy or any steps  
they could have taken. The only relevant section of the policy  that could apply to their 
situation is actually  missed departure. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs J particularly as they suffered through  an extremely  difficult 
day of travelling in bad weather conditions and they have made every effort to contact the 
airline. Ultimately their policy covers various issues with their flight  but there werent any 
issues with the flight, about the problems they faced were during the earlier bit of their 
journey. As they didnt make  it to the airport and the flight departed on time, the only relevant  
section of the policy that applies  to their situation is missed departure.  Its unfortunate that 
their flights  cost a lot more than the amount they could  claim for missed departure. But they 
took out a policy that said theyd only get £500 each if they missed their flight, so it wouldnt 
be fair to make  the insurer  pay more than that. So I am persuaded that it was reasonable for 
ARV UG to decline the claim for abandonment.
I know it will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs J but for the reasons explained above I think  
ARV UGs settlement of their claim,  paying  the policy limit of £500 per person, less any 
excess, was fair.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0992509