K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1997. Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. Mrs B says the PPI 
was added without  her knowledge and consent. Ive seen a copy of the credit  application 
form Mrs B completed at the time of the sale. This had a separate  section for PPI and I 
can see that Mrs B chose to take PPI because the section to take PPI has been ticked. If 
it hadnt been ticked then I cant see that PPI would have been applied to the account. 
Mrs B also signed  the application form.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds got a high level of commission  and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Lloyds 
didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - including what she has said about her existing 
repayment provisions.  But these points  dont change my mind. The PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mrs Bs statutory sick pay (and for a much longer period of time)  and savings. It 
would also have paid out if Mrs B lost her job.
my final decision
Ref: DRN05823102The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0582310