K820x#14complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy over the phone in 1995.  He was employed  at the time as a factory 
worker and had been there a year. From  what he has told us, he was entitled to three  
months full pay for redundancy,  no more than statutory pay for sickness and didnt  have any 
other means  with which to pay his card if he couldnt  work. Mr H has told us of a health issue  
he suffered many years after the sale, but he hasnt  told us of having  suffered any health  
issues before the sale - apart from broken bones  15 years  before the sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it 
offered to pay 15% of Mr Hs card balance. It cost at the time no more  than £1 per £100 of 
the monthly outstanding balance. The premium still had to be paid during a successful claim 
and attracted interest. The life cover, subject to its terms,  would clear  the balance  on death.
The policy also provided purchase cover. Mr H hasnt complained about this element of the 
insurance policy so I will not consider it further  in this decision. 
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.  Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Hs 
representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Hs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mr H about  the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the impact  they would  
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN02264952The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr H disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN02264953The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Hs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN02264954-Whether AXA gave  Mr H sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mr H has said he had no interest in PPI and 
says it was just included as part of the package with his card.  Mr H and AXA agree the PPI 
was sold by phone in late 1995. From  what Ive seen, where PPI was sold by phone for an 
account like Mr Hs, the card account  was usually already active  and in this case  AXA says 
the card began in mid-1995, around  six months before the PPI sale.  Also,  Ive seen nothing 
persuasive to suggest Mr Hs account  didnt start when AXA says it started.
So, with all this in mind,  Im not persuaded the PPI was included  as part of the package with 
Mr Hs card, because I think it more likely his card started without PPI around six months 
before he bought the PPI. Also, given that I think his card had been running for a little while 
without PPI, this makes me think it likely  Mr H wouldve  known he didnt have to have PPI to 
have the card running and that the PPI was something  separate.
Also, looking  at all Mr H has said,  there isnt anything to make me think he was pressured 
into the PPI. So, taking everything  into account, I think  its more likely Mr H knew the PPI 
was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. But it would be understandable if 
he didnt recall all the details of the sale now, given how long ago the phone call took place.
did AXA provide advice?
AXA and Mr H agree  advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means AXA didnt have to 
check if the PPI was suitable for Mr H. Instead,  it had to give him sufficient, appropriate and 
timely information to enable Mr H to make an informed choice about whether to take the 
policy, including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Ive seen policy terms and conditions I accept - on a balance of probabilities - likely reflect 
those that applied to PPI like Mr Hs. But AXA hasnt been  able to provide any call script to 
show what information Mr H mightve  been given during the call before he agreed  to the PPI. 
So, based  on what I have,  Im not persuaded AXA gave Mr H the information he fairly and 
reasonably needed to make an informed decision about whether or not to take the PPI.
This sale took place  by phone. I dont  know exactly what AXA told Mr H about  the PPI, but I 
think it unlikely he wouldve agreed to take it without  having at least a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think 
its unlikely Mr H would have thought it was free.
Ref: DRN02264955But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Hs attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr H, including the need to maintain premiums  during a 
claim or that payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew  
to his attention  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Hs representative  considers  to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr H about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr H has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr H? To what extent did Mr H suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr H would have 
still taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. Mr H says he wouldnt have taken it and 
believes I should presume  this to be the case given the significant  failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr H had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As Ive found above,  he chose to take the PPI - so I consider it 
Ref: DRN02264956reasonable to conclude  he had some interest in the benefits offered by insurance of this sort. 
But Mr H made  his decision  based  on incomplete  information. So what  he thought he was 
getting isnt exactly  what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration 
when determining if Mr H has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr H ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But I 
accept AXA didnt make  clear the on-going  cost information. So, while Mr H didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
the policy on and found acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mr H knew  or ought to have 
known about or which he had asked  about  or received advice or treatment for from any 
medical practitioner during the 12 months before the policy  start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr H wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr H be stopped from doing his 
own or any similar job, and also be stopped from doing any paid work his experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr H pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. He couldnt have claimed for time off work  related to the broken 
bones hed had around 15 years  earlier. But, taking into account all Mr H has told us about 
them, Im not persuaded he wouldve thought  himself at much risk of missing  work in future 
due to those past injuries - so I dont  think he wouldve placed much weight on that in his 
decision or been put off the cover  had he known about that exclusion.
Ive nothing to suggest Mr H had any other health  issues at the time or wouldve been  caught 
by any of the other significant exclusions  he was in permanent employment for example.  
So, with all Ive said above in mind, I think Mr H still had good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr H 
from taking the policy,  Mr H, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
Ref: DRN02264957If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he were stopped from doing his own or 
any similar job, and also stopped from doing any paid work his experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into his thinking about what to 
do. And I accept it may have given him pause  for thought  but, given his circumstances, on 
balance I think Mr H wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr H wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently  close  to what  he thought  he was 
getting, and I think  it couldve provided a useful  benefit at a difficult time - notwithstanding his 
work redundancy benefits and entitlement to statutory sick pay. And, in those circumstances, 
I consider it more likely  than not Mr H wouldve taken the PPI in any event.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr H would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr H would not have taken the policy, I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken  the 
PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information  about the policy  he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude that AXA should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN02264958Im also aware that Mr H thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of AXAs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mr H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr H and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0226495