K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (trading as Pet Plan) turned down her claim 
under her pet insurance policy for the death of her bulldog.
background
Mrs M had pet insurance with Allianz  which started  in January 2014 for her bulldog. In 
October 2017 her bulldog  sadly died. Afterwards she made a claim on the insurance for the 
cost of the dog. 
Allianz refused  the claim on the basis  that in 2014  the dog was examined by a vet and 
Allianz says the clinical  notes  of that examination lead it to believe that its exclusion in its 
policy about conditions  causing death  being present for more  than twelve months should be 
applied. This is because when the bulldog died the vet said in their notes that it was 
consistent  with overlong soft palate  and BAS (often referred to as BOAS-brachycephalic 
obstructive airway syndrome) .
Mrs M says that there was no proper diagnosis made in 2014, nor treatment suggested. She 
feels that Allianzs position is unfair.  So she complained here.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She said she wasnt persuaded that the condition the 
bulldog died of was diagnosed in 2014. She said the notes from the time says they 
discussed the strong possibility the cause  of collapse  was a long soft palate getting stuck  
with the epiglottis. They also discussed  the respiratory problems that a bulldog  can have, but 
they also discussed how the cause  of the collapse could have been an epileptic fit or heart  
problems.
The adjudicator also noted that during  the intervening years the dog was examined  at the 
vets repeatedly and none of these visits were  for BOAS. And at that time there was no 
recommendation for treatment and the evidence of the external vet which  noted the first 
direct visualisation of any physical BOAS deformities was in January 2017  (less than 
twelve months before the dog died. So the adjudicator decided it was unfair for Allianz to use 
the collapse of 2014 to not pay the claim  on death.
Allianz has asked  for an Ombudsmans decision so the complaint comes  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Allianz and Mrs M dont agree to some  of the key issues  here.  So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short  I must  decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Having done  so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Bulldogs, by the characteristics of their breed (and similar breeds) are more likely to suffer  
BOAS than longer headed  dogs.  So Id expect a vet to raise the potential  presence of this 
condition as a possible factor during  any examination for any short  headed breed of dog that 
collapses as this dog did in 2014. However  for Allianz to fairly apply this common  exclusion it 
needs to show  that this bulldog showed clinical signs of BOAS more than twelve months  
before it died. And I dont think it has done this.
Ref: DRN07521002I say so because  I dont consider the external vets comment about BOAS being confirmed 
in 2014 to be persuasive. The notes  say the cause  of the collapse in 2014 could have been 
due to the long soft palate getting stuck  with the epiglottis. The notes also show that the 
common issues that bulldogs suffer were also discussed but they also considered  the cause 
of the collapse  could have been an epileptic  fit or from heart problems. Or possibly having 
eaten something it shouldnt. So Im not persuaded that a diagnosis was made here on this 
dog in 2014 of BOAS. I think this was more like some  consideration about  what could have 
happened to cause a collapse in what otherwise appeared a healthy  bulldog at that time. As 
the notes say about the dog seems fine now.
Allianz has said there is no other reason for the dog to collapse after coughing other than 
the BOAS.  But I dont agree because the notes from the time suggest the collapse could  
have been epileptic  fit or heart problems. And I would  find the treating vets thoughts from the 
time of treatment more  persuasive than what Allianz says now.
Furthermore no treatment or corrective actions  were recommended in 2014 for BOAS going 
forward. The treating  vet also confirmed that a GA would have to be performed  to confirm 
BOAS and wasnt.  Nor when the dog was presented at the vets repeatedly for the following 
years up to October 2016 was BOAS diagnosed or treated.  Just because a breed has a 
predisposition to BOAS  doesnt mean  all such dogs suffer clinical signs  of the condition  or 
that this particular bulldog had clinical signs of BOAS in 2014.
And as the adjudicator pointed out the first direct  visualisation  of any physical  BOAS 
deformities was on 09/01/17 which is less than 12 months prior to Pips death and therefore  
would be covered under the policy. So I dont agree with Allianzs  assertion  that BOAS was 
already clearly present in 2014 as it is a condition that is present due to the dogs anatomy,
not an acquired disease. As Ive said this breed does have a predisposition to this condition 
- but not all such dogs  show  clinical signs of this condition.  And Im not persuaded this dog 
showed clinical signs of this condition outside of the twelve month exclusion.
So in conclusion Im not persuaded that it is fair for Allianz to say that there were clinical 
signs of this condition  in 2014  and as such I dont consider it fair to refuse  the claim. So its 
my decision  this complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date we tell it Mrs M 
has accepted  my final decision I order Allianz Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mrs Ms claim regarding the death  of this dog, subject to any policy  limit and excess. 
Allianz must  add interest at the simple rate of 8% from the date the dog died to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
*If Allianz Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ref: DRN07521003Mrs M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0752100