K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy because AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited has declined a claim he made on his 
employers group private medical insurance  scheme. 
background
Mr B is a member of a group private medical  insurance scheme, via his employer. He 
fractured his thumb and had an operation.  Following  the operation he was referred for 
outpatient physiotherapy. AXA has paid the claim but it wont cover the cost of the 
physiotherapy. They say this isnt covered under  the policy.  
Mr B made a complaint. He says he thought  it was covered and he didnt receive  the policy 
documents. AXA referred to a separate conversation  about  Mr Bs knee,  in which  hed been 
told that physiotherapy wasnt  covered.  This conversation took place before he started 
physiotherapy on his thumb. So AXA didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He was satisfied AXA had sent Mr B 
information about how to access the policy documents  by email because  AXA had provided 
a screen shot to support  this and a copy of the email sent. He also noted  the claims 
documentation also mentioned how this information  could  be accessed. He was satisfied the 
policy excluded outpatient physiotherapy and Mr B had been  made  aware of this before he 
started the physiotherapy treatment for his thumb.  So he didnt  think  AXA had treated Mr B 
unfairly. 
Mr B didnt agree. He provided information  which showed he, and other colleagues, had 
experienced difficulty in accessing information  about  the policy. However, this didnt change 
our investigators thoughts. He noted that Mr Bs colleague had received the email, which 
suggested the emails  were sent to members  of the scheme. And, in any event, he said that 
AXA had provided  information about accessing  the policy documents  as part of the claims 
process. 
So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant industry rules and guidelines AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint because I dont think its unreasonable for AXA to reject  the claim for 
physiotherapy on his thumb. I say that because:  
Mr B says he called  AXA about  issues with accessing the policy documents.  He did 
speak to AXA when  he first made the claim and mentioned hed not had much  
information about the policy yet. There was also an error in Mr Bs email  address 
which was corrected.  But theres no record of a further call from Mr B to discuss  
issues with accessing the policy documents. In any event, I dont  think  thats central  
to the outcome of this complaint because, as part of the claims process,  AXA did 
explain how Mr B could access  the policy documents.  So Im satisfied Mr B had a 
reasonable opportunity to access that information.  
Ref: DRN08603552Mr Bs policy doesnt include outpatient  physiotherapy.  It only covers in-patient 
physiotherapy. There is an option  to add cover for outpatient physiotherapy but this 
hadnt been purchased by the policyholder,  Mr Bs employer.  That means AXA 
doesnt have to cover the cost of outpatient physiotherapy and its not unreasonable 
for them to decline  the claim on that basis. 
During the call where the surgery was authorised there  was no mention of further  
planned treatment,  such as physiotherapy. And I think  AXA were  clear they were 
covering the procedure  which  was scheduled for the next day. I appreciate Mr B feels 
physiotherapy is standard procedure following surgery. But its a separate and 
distinct treatment from the surgery. Mr B didnt make  a separate  claim for 
physiotherapy on his thumb so they werent  in a position to let him know it wasnt 
covered under the policy.  
Mr B also had treatment on his knee via the NHS and he spoke  to AXA about  this on 
9 August 2018. During the call Mr B stated that his physiotherapy was covered  
following the private surgery on this thumb.  He didnt mention whether it was in or out 
patient treatment.  Mr B was looking to authorise outpatient physiotherapy for his 
knee. During the call AXA explained Mr Bs policy didnt include the therapy benefit 
so physiotherapy  wasnt covered under the policy. Mr B had his initial physiotherapy 
assessment for his thumb booked  for the following  day, 10 August 2018. Mr B has 
explained he thought the situation with his knee was different, because hed had 
NHS treatment. But I think he had a reasonable opportunity  to query this during the 
call in August, as he was told the policy didnt cover him for physiotherapy.  
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision before 15 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0860355