K821x#15Complaint
Mr G, represented by Miss L, complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(trading as Audi Finance)  (VWFS) didnt tell him that he would be liable for an outstanding 
balance after he returned the car he had acquired  under  a hire purchase agreement  (HPA). 
Miss L says that Mr G hasnt been treated fairly,  particularly given he is a vulnerable 
consumer.
Background
Mr G entered into a HPA with VWFS in August 2015 to acquire a used car. Miss L says that 
around two years into the HPA Mr Gs financial situation changed and he was struggling to 
maintain his monthly payments.  At this time Mr G was suffering from mental health issues 
and his financial situation was adding stress to this situation. 
Miss L contacted VWFS to explain the situation and she agreed  to continue with the monthly  
payments for a period  to enable Mr G to keep using  the car. However, this went on for longer  
than expected and Miss L says she kept VWFS informed at all times.  She says VWFS  asked 
for evidence  of Mr Gs condition which she sent but she says it is now claimed this wasnt 
received although it wasnt  asked for again.
As the situation  continued Miss L says she contacted VWFS  to ask about returning  the car. 
This was agreed but she says she wasnt told there would  be an outstanding balance after 
returning the car of over £6,000. She says that had she known this they would have  looked  
at different  options.  She says that it took a lot of calls to get the car collected  and that after 
this there  was no contact  from VWFS  until Mr G received a letter from a company working 
on behalf of VWFS chasing him for a debt of over £6,000. Miss L says she contacted it about 
this and hasnt  received  the service she should have. She said that Mr G was a vulnerable 
consumer and hasnt  been treated as he should have been.
VWFS says that it didnt  receive medical evidence from Mr G as had been  requested.  It says 
that the HPA set out what would happen in the event of a termination and that Mr G was 
provided with the information he needed to know what  was happening with his account. It 
says arrears letters were sent as were default  notices. It says it acted  in line with the terms 
of the HPA and that it worked with Mr G and Miss L to give Mr G opportunities to address the 
issues on his account.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that VWFS was aware  of Mr Gs financial  
situation and his personal health issues. She said that there wasnt  evidence to show that he 
had been informed of his right to voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement and instead a 
voluntary surrender (VS) was arranged which resulted in an increased  liability  for Mr G. She 
thought that if VT had been offered and explained it was reasonable to accept Mr G would 
have taken this option. Because of this she recommended that Mr Gs outstanding balance  
be reduced to the amount required to meet 50% of the total amount payable  under the 
agreement and his credit file be changed  to show a VT. She also thought he should  be paid 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  he had been caused.
VWFS responded to our adjudicators view. It said it was in regular contact  with Miss L 
regarding the arrears on Mr Gs account and discussed suitable arrangements to continue  
with the HPA and bring it up to date. It said that Mr G was seeking employment  at the time 
and that its support was asked to maintain the HPA. It said that Mr Gs income and 
expenditure form was passed to a specialist  team  as there was concern that accepting his 
Ref: DRN02229982payment towards  the HPA and arrears  could place him in further financial difficulty. It said 
contact was attempted but wasnt successful and a default notice was issue on 12 March  
2018. It said that had contact been  successful at this time VT would have been discussed  
and that a VT quote had been  prepared in readiness. However as there was no contact the 
HPA was terminated on 11 April 2018.
VWFS said that the HPA was terminated in line with the terms and conditions. It said that 
had a VT taken  place then charges would have been applied for excess  mileage. It offered 
an alternative resolution of Mr G paying the accrued arrears of £3878.60, excess mileage 
charge of £906.42 + VAT and the repossession costs of £252.
Mr G said that he wasnt  aware  of the mileage allowance or the potential for an excess  
mileage charge.
Our adjudicator agreed that Mr G should  be liable for the arrears of £3,878.60 and said that 
a suitable repayment plan should be agreed if necessary. She said that the excess  mileage 
charge and repossession cost should be waived and that Mr Gs credit file should be 
updated to show  VT once the arrears  had been settled.
VWFS agreed to waive the repossession  cost and following further  discussions,  it also 
agreed, as a gesture  of goodwill, to waive the excess mileage charge in full. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G entered into a HPA with VWFS to acquire a used car. The monthly payments under the 
HPA were around £350 and then there was a final payment amount. Mr G was able to 
maintain the payments until end 2016  after which he started to experience issues.  Miss L 
was in regular  contact during 2017 explaining  Mr Gs employment  situation and discussing 
making payments  on his behalf. The conversations at this time suggested that Mr G was 
trying to return to work. In November 2018,  following receipt of a default notice, Miss L 
contacted VWFS to explain Mr Gs situation  further  specifically mentioning his mental health 
issues. From  this point I think VWFS should have treated Mr G as a vulnerable consumer 
and ensured that its actions reflected  this.
In 2018, Mr G was sent an income  and expenditure form and the outcome of this raised 
concerns. I can see that contact was attempted and discussions took place regarding 
medical documents being sent. While  Miss L said these were provided, VWFS said they 
werent received.
However, given the circumstances in this case and that VWFS was aware of both Mr Gs 
financial and medical issues, I think it should have taken steps  to ensure that the termination  
of the agreement took place in a way of least detriment to him. Mr G had the right to VT 
under his agreement  and I think  that this should  have  been made  clear  to him at the time 
given his situation.
Because of this I agree that the fair resolution to this complaint is to treat the HPA as being  
subject to a VT. It is fair that Mr G remains liable for the outstanding  arrears that would have  
arisen under this action, which VWFS has noted as £3,878.60.
Ref: DRN02229983VWFS initially mentioned the cost of repossessing the car but this charge was waived. There  
were also discussions regarding the excess mileage charge  however as this has now been  
waived as a gesture of goodwill, I do not find I need to consider  this further.
Overall, I agree  that the fair resolution  to this complaint is for Mr G to remain  liable for the 
arrears calculated as £3,878.60.  Given his financial and medical situation, Mr G should be 
treated positively and sympathetically in regard to discussions about the repayment of this 
amount and a suitable repayment plan should be set up if necessary.
Mr Gs credit file should be amended once the arrears have been cleared to reflect a VT. I 
also agree  that this situation has caused  Mr G undue distress and inconvenience and agree 
with our adjudicators  recommendation  of £200 compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should, as it has 
agreed, waive the excess mileage and repossession costs resulting in Mr Gs liability  being 
the arrears (noted by VWFS as £3,878.60). Given Mr Gs situation, a suitable  repayment 
plan should be put in place if needed.
Mr Gs credit file should be amended to record a voluntary termination once the arrears on 
the account is settled.
Mr G should be paid £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the issue  with the 
termination of his HPA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 August 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0222998