K822xcomplaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt give him a full breakdown or 
explanation about compensation theyd paid him.
background 
In October  2018 Barclays wrote to Mr T, they said theyd identified  an error made in
September 2009. They said the minimum monthly payment figure they had provided for two 
of his credit  cards had been too low. This meant theyd charged  Mr T more interest than they 
should have done so they offered compensation.
After receiving their letter Mr T contacted Barclays. He asked them  to provide a breakdown 
or explanation as to why the error  occurred and why it had been  revisited.  Barclays were 
unable to provide  any further detail to Mr T so he brought his complaint  to this service.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019.  In my provisional decision I said:
deduction of tax
Mr T has queried  why income  tax has been  deducted from the payments he received  from
Barclays. I can see that no tax has deducted  from the refund of overcharged  interest. The 
tax has been deducted from the 8% simple interest paid on the refund of overcharged  
interest.
Businesses are required to deduct income tax from compensation  interest at the basic  rate.
If Mr T doesnt  pay income tax at the basic rate then he can ask Barclays  to provide a tax 
deduction certificate. Mr T can then contact  HMRC to discuss  the matter further if necessary.
explanation of compensation
Barclays have now provided further detail behind  the compensation provided to Mr T.
Theyve said the error occurred because the minimum payment figure they provided to Mr T 
in September  2009 for two of his credit  cards didnt cover the interest charges.
Mr T paid the minimum payment figure  as per his statements. However, as these figures 
were incorrect he incurred  extra interest  on the difference between  the correct  minimum 
payments and the figures he was given.
Barclays have calculated  how much  extra interest Mr T has paid because of their error.
Theyve assumed  Mr T wouldve made the correct minimum payment if he had been given 
the correct figure.
For Mr Ts credit card ending *001 theyve said the minimum  payment due was £5 but the 
interest charge  was £108.09. It follows that Barclays think theyve incorrectly  charged 
interest on £103.09.
For Mr Ts credit card ending *007, theyve said the minimum payment due was £8.01 but 
the interest charge was £92.60. So Barclays think theyve incorrectly charged interest  on 
£84.59.
Ref: DRN06670862Barclays have calculated  the amount of interest  Mr T has paid because of these errors and 
refunded it to him. The interest has been calculated from the date of the error until the 
balances were cleared  on both of the cards. Im satisfied  the approach theyve taken is fair 
and reasonable.
did the error occur on any of his other accounts
Mr T has queried  if this error occurred on any of his other cards.
At the time of the error Mr T held two other  credit  cards with Barclays.  For the credit card 
ending *002 Mr T received a full refund of the interest charged in September  2009 in his 
October 2009 statement. This cleared  the balance of the card so Mr T didnt unnecessarily
pay interest he wasnt supposed to.
For the credit card ending  *008 there was no interest charged in September  2009, therefore  
no error occurred.
impact to Mr T
I think it would have  been helpful if Barclays had provided this information to Mr T when he 
asked for it. I wouldnt expect Barclays to provide a full explanation to all consumers affected 
by the error. But where a consumer has requested further detail and Barclays  is able to 
provide more detail,  then they should give as much of an explanation  as they can.
Barclays have subsequently  provided this service with an explanation.  I appreciate  this may 
not give Mr T all the detail he requires. But Im satisfied the explanation theyve now 
provided gives a reasonable amount of detail.
Ive also considered the impact to Mr T. He was in correspondence with Barclays between
October 2018 and December  2018. And he was told that Barclays were  unable to provide  
any further detail.  Mr T had to then take his complaint to this service.
But weve since seen that Barclays  were able to provide  a breakdown.  And I think  not 
providing an explanation or breakdown to Mr T would have caused  him frustration. To 
address this I require  Barclays to pay Mr T £50 in compensation for the poor service hes 
received.
Ref: DRN06670863Barclays responded and accepted my findings. Mr T did not accept my findings.  In summary, 
he said:
Minimum monthly payments have  no bearing  on the interest  calculation  per se.
The minimum payments were only paid because the 9 September lump  sum 
payments on all four accounts were supposed  to have cleared the balances in full on 
each of the four accounts quoted ending 001, 007, 002 and 008.
The amounts  hed been refunded were  incorrect and this could be evidenced by 
previous correspondence hed had with this service.  So, he had to return the 
payments.
He thought the compensation  Id provisionally  suggested was probably  the minimum 
that would  be appropriate. And it should be substantially increased because of what 
hed revealed,  coupled with his honesty  and the amount of time hed spent on the 
matter. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion I set out in my provisional decision. However, I think  it might  be helpful  to provide 
some further  clarity on some of the points Mr T has made.
Under the Lending Code  that applied at the material time, minimum monthly payments 
needed to cover more  than the interest charged  for that month. The principle  behind  this is 
that the interest-bearing balance does not increase simply because the customer is making 
only the monthly minimum payment.
If the monthly payment is less than the amount of interest charged, then this will have a 
bearing on the interest calculation for the following month. Because the balance  is higher 
than it would have  been if the minimum monthly  payment  was calculated correctly,  the 
customer incurs  more  interest than they would have done.
Ive considered the previous correspondence with this service that Mr T has provided. It 
relates to a previous refund of credit card interest  he received from Barclays  in 2011. Ive 
queried this with Barclays and theyve said Mr T can keep the refunds of £16.47  and £22.84, 
irrespective of any amounts previously  refunded  in 2011. It may be that this leaves Mr T in a 
slightly better position than he would be if everything  had been  done correctly. But Barclays 
are willing to accept  this position, and I dont require any further action in this respect.
Ive also considered what Mr T has said about  the compensation  I provisionally  suggested.  I 
note the points hes made, but Im satisfied  that £50 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, I wont be directing Barclays to pay any more  than what  Ive previously  
suggested.
Ref: DRN06670864my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Mr T £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0667086