K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Paysafe Financial Services Limited closed  his Neteller account without 
notice and without  telling  him why. 
background
Mr A held a Neteller  account, which is run by Paysafe.  In October  2018  Paysafe blocked the 
account following  a review. It also asked Mr A to provide a bank statement so it could return  
the money in the account to him. That money  was returned and the account closed. 
Mr A complained about Paysafes actions. He was unhappy his account had been blocked 
and then closed  immediately, and that Paysafe  hadnt  told him why it had acted as it did. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service, and one of our investigators  considered  it. He 
thought however that Paysafe had acted in line with regulatory requirements and hadnt 
treated Mr A unfairly. He said too that Paysafe was under  no obligation to give reasons for 
acting as it had. He didnt recommend that Paysafe  reinstate  Mr As account or compensate  
him. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review  his 
case  as the final stage in our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
As the investigator  explained, financial businesses such as Paysafe may choose from time 
to time to review their customers accounts  and the activities on them. In some instances,  
regulations may require  that they do so. 
Paysafe explained  to Mr A in response  to his complaint  that its account terms allowed it in 
certain circumstances  to suspend or limit access to his account or to close it without notice. 
Im satisfied that it was entitled to act as it did. I note as well that it returned the money  held 
in the account to Mr A  through the bank account he nominated   within  a day of blocking  
his funds. Mr A was not left without his money  for any significant period  of time. 
For these reasons, I dont  believe that Paysafe has treated Mr A unfairly.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Paysafe Financial Services Limited to do anything 
further to resolve  Mr As complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision before 13 July 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0415396