K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) offered him 
loans which  he couldnt afford to repay. He asks that interest and charges are refunded, 
with compensation.  
background
Mr S took out loans  with Sunny in late 2017 and early 2018. He says while the loans might have 
looked affordable,  Sunny  should have seen signs of financial difficulty  and declined  to lend.
Mr S took out five loans with Sunny as follows:
Loan  
NoDate of 
loanDate repaidAmount of 
loanNumber of 
instalmentsHighest 
repayment*
1 19/12/2017 16/01/2018 £1,600 9 267
2 23/12/2017 05/01/2018 £100 8 283
3 04/01/2018 16/01/2018 £700 9 426
4 23/01/2018 outstanding balance £2,000 8 411
5 10/03/2018 16/07/2018 £100 8 432
*including repayments for previous loans still outstanding
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt wrong  
for Sunny to offer loans 1 to 3 to Mr S. But it shouldnt have offered him loans 4 and 5. He 
said by the time Mr S took out loan 4 there were signs he was struggling to repay the loans. 
While he repaid loans  1 to 3 early he took out loan 4 soon after. There was a risk he wouldnt 
be able to repay the loans sustainably. 
Sunny didnt agree so the complaint  was passed to me. I sent provisional decisions to the 
parties. In summary, I said,  given Mr Ss borrowing pattern, his other short  term loans and 
the amount of the loan,  Sunny should have asked for more information  before offering loan 
4. When I issued my first provisional decision, I said I didnt have enough evidence about  
Mr Ss circumstances to uphold his complaint. Mr S then provided bank statements and his 
credit report.  Having reviewed the new evidence, I issued a second provisional decision 
upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 4 and 5. 
Sunny didnt agree. In summary,  it said its checks were proportionate and it wasnt 
reasonable to say it should have seen signs of financial  difficulty.  Mr S asked that I look 
again at whether Sunny should have offered him loans 1 to 3. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ss 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, 
I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN02138472But certain factors might  suggest  that Sunny should  have done  more to establish  that any 
lending was sustainable for a customer. Such factors include the customers  income  
particularly a lower  income   the amount of the loan repayments and the time over which  the 
loan is to be repaid,  and the number and frequency  of loans and the time over which the 
customer has been given  loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the borrowing has 
become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come  a point where the lending  
history and pattern  of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny says it cant provide information  about  Mr Ss income and outgoings when he applied  
for loan 1. When Mr S applied for loans  2 to 4 he told Sunny his monthly income  was £3,125.  
I think its reasonable to assume he gave Sunny similar information when he applied  for 
loan 1. When Mr S applied for loan 5 he said his monthly income  was £4,225.  
Mr S asked that I re-consider whether Sunny should  have offered him loans 1 to 3. 
I appreciate that Mr Ss actual circumstances might  have been quite different from the 
information he gave  Sunny at that time. But I have to take into account the information 
Sunny had when  it made its decision to lend. Based on the information it had, Sunny 
calculated that, after meeting his living costs and credit commitments, Mr S would have  
income of at least £1,600 to meet the loan repayments. I think  Sunnys checks  were  
proportionate for loans  1 to 3, given  this was the start of the lending relationship between 
Sunny and Mr S. I dont  think Sunny had any reason at this point to think  the loan 
repayments for loans  1 to 3 werent affordable.
But when Mr S asked  for loan 4 I think Sunny should  have asked for more  information. 
This was Mr Ss fourth loan in about  a month and the amount increased  to £2,000. Mr S 
asked for loan 4 soon  after repaying loans 1 to 3. This could suggest a problem such  as 
financial hardship, problems managing  his money or that Mr S needed  loan 4 to fund the gap 
in his finances left by repaying loans 1 to 3. Sunny says this cant be the case as Mr S 
borrowed £2,000  and hed recently repaid  nearly £2,600. But I dont think  it matters that the 
two amounts dont  match  perfectly:  what Mr Ss request for loan 4 could indicate  is that 
repaying his previous loans left him short of funds to meet his expenditure. 
Loan 4 was repayable in eight monthly  instalments  which made  monthly repayments lower  
than if it had been repayable over a shorter period. But Mr S had to maintain these  payments  
over a longer  period.  And Sunny was required to establish whether Mr S could  sustainably  
repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.
In response to my provisional decision,  Sunny said its customers  can ask for up to four loans 
at a time.  So the fact that this was Mr Ss fourth loan wouldnt alert it to the possibility he was 
having problems  managing his money. It says there  were no other  factors  to suggest  this. 
But Sunny was aware from its credit check that Mr S also borrowed from other  short term 
and instalment lenders. The results show about  £1,400 of short  term loans were taken out in 
the three months  up to mid December 2017.
So when Mr S asked  for his fourth  loan within a short period and for a larger amount, his 
credit history  and pattern of borrowing should  have  prompted Sunny  to ask Mr S for more  
information about his short term commitments. I think it should  have asked for evidence to 
support what Mr S said if this wasnt consistent with the information it had from its credit  
check or otherwise  lacked  credibility.
Ref: DRN02138473From Mr Ss credit report and bank  statements,  I can see:
Mr S took out short term and instalment loans during 2017, which is consistent 
with the information  Sunny received from its credit check. 
Short term credit commitments were  outstanding  when Mr S started to borrow 
from Sunny (which is again consistent  with Sunnys credit check).  
During December 2017 Mr S paid £800  to short term and instalment lenders 
(other than Sunny).  
Mr S paid £2,500  to other  short term and instalment lenders in January 2018. 
Mr S took out two loans totalling £5,000  from other short  term and instalment 
lenders in the first half of January  2018.  
I think Mr Ss use of short term and instalment loans suggests he had a problem managing  
his money. It doesnt seem to me reasonable to suggest that Mr S was at this point using 
short term credit  to deal with a one off emergency.  I dont think  his continued use of short  
term loans was sustainable and Sunny would have known this if it had asked for more 
information about Mr Ss short term credit  commitments.  
By the time Mr S asked  for loan 5, I think Sunny  needed to look more  carefully at his 
finances and ask for evidence to verify what he said  for instance by asking for his bank 
statements. If it had, it would have  seen a significant number of payments  to gambling 
businesses. I think this would also have shown further lending  to Mr S wasnt  sustainable. 
Sunny provided  extracts from its contact  notes where Mr S asked to move  the date of 
repayments for loan 4 and contacted it about  missed payments for loans 4 and 5. Mr S said 
he didnt want an arrangement to pay. But I dont think this is evidence  that this borrowing 
was sustainable.  
what happens now?
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr S after, and including, the loan that he 
took on 23 January  2018 (loan 4). So for each of those loans Sunny should: 
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr S on the loans.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from 
the date they were  paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in relation to 
loan 4 and loan 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr S still owes Sunny  some  of the principal  balance he borrowed on loan 4, Sunny may 
deduct this from the compensation  that is due to him. But, to be clear, any outstanding 
balance should  be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking  account  of 
any repayments Mr S has made  as though  they were applied against  the principal sums 
borrowed.
Ref: DRN02138474my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Elevate Credit International Limited to take 
the steps and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0213847