K820x#14complaint
Ms F and Mr T complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) misinformed them  about  how 
to claim on their travel insurance  and caused them substantial inconvenience and expense.
background
Ms F and Mr T had travel  insurance policies connected to credit  card accounts. All three  
policies were with IPA. All three  credit  card accounts were with the same  provider.
When Ms Fs and Mr Ts outbound flights were cancelled, they also missed their connecting 
flights and incurred costs  in reaching  their final destination.
Several months later,  Ms F and Mr T claimed on their travel insurance policies. During 
telephone contact with IPAs claims  administrator,  they were told that they could claim for 
their losses  on all three travel insurance policies.  Ms F and Mr T made  their claims but were  
then told by IPA that the terms of their cover  meant  that only the insurance  policy associated 
with the credit card account used for the payment of the expenses being  claimed  could be 
claimed against. 
Ms F and Mr T complained to IPA that they had been misled about their claiming options and 
were left with expenses they couldnt  recover as theyd expected to be able to do. They  
wanted IPA to accept  claims on all three policies, as they were  told they could claim on 
them.
IPAs final response letter  said its agent  had made an error in saying all three policies could 
be claimed on. But it said the policies  terms were clear. It also said the expenses Ms F and 
Mr T had incurred  in completing their journey had already been incurred when their agent 
gave misleading  advice. It didnt feel it had caused  Ms F and Mr T a financial loss because  
of this. It did acknowledge its agents  advice was wrong, and paid Ms F and Mr T £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused  them.
Ms F and Mr T didnt  agree with IPAs  response and complained  to us.
An investigator could  see the frustration Ms F and Mr T had been caused by IPAs incorrect  
advice about how to claim for their disrupted  journey. But she did say IPA had admitted that 
mistake. IPA paid Ms F and Mr T £100 compensation and the investigator thought  that was a 
fair amount in the circumstances.  The investigator thought that IPA was acting fairly when it 
refused to accept claims that were outside  of the policies terms and conditions.  And the 
investigator said that by claiming on all three  policies, Ms F and Mr T could potentially 
benefit financially  by more than their loss. And that wasnt the purpose  of the policies.
Ms F and Mr T didnt  agree with the investigator and their complaint  has come to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In handling Ms Fs and Mr Ts claims,  IPA is relying  on the policy  terms and conditions of 
each of the policies being claimed on by them. On the subject of travel inconvenience such 
Ref: DRN01256852that Ms F and Mr T have experienced, the policies are all clear that only expenses  initially  
paid for by the credit card connected to the travel insurance policy can be considered  for 
reimbursement.
The two policies that IPA is not admitting claims on say, in the section called  Travel  
Inconvenience, Key Exclusions & Limitations,  excluded  claims are Purchases which are 
not made on the Card account . 
This is a clear condition  of the policies and I cant say IPA has been unfair or unreasonable  
in applying that exception to Ms Fs and Mr Ts claims on those two policies.
Ive seen Ms Fs comments  that she and Mr T were claiming on three  policies to recover  
expenses that exceeded each policys financial limits in each  category  of expense they were 
claiming for- such as flights,  transfers, accommodation and refreshments. Contrary to the 
investigators view on this matter, I have seen no evidence at all that it was Ms Fs and       
Mr Ts intention to make duplicate claims on their three  policies with the intention  of being  
paid more than once for the same expense.
I then considered whether I felt Ms F and Mr T had been compensated fairly for the distress 
and inconvenience  IPA had caused  them  with its initial claim advice. Ive seen that Ms F 
says she was involved in telephone calls with IPA that totalled  several  hours. I have listened 
to a number of calls that happened after IPA had told Ms F and Mr T what they wouldnt pay 
for because  of policy exclusions. I cant fairly  say that IPA is responsible for the 
inconvenience Ms F and Mr T suffered,  and cost of phone calls that they chose to make, 
after theyd been  told by IPA what it would and wouldnt pay for. I dont think  IPA has been 
unreasonable when it compensated Ms F and Mr T with a payment of £100.
It is clear to me that Ms F feels  very strongly  about the distressing effect  IPAs  wrong  advice 
has had. And I can understand she feels that way. She feels she could have claimed sooner 
on another insurance policy  she had if shed known sooner that IPA wasnt  accepting all 
three of her claims. And she feels she has incurred  expenses  that have left her out of 
pocket. But I am mindful that when Ms F and Mr T incurred the expenses  they have claimed  
for, they hadnt  at that time been  given any claim advice by IPA. And Ive not seen any 
indication that Ms F and Mr T would have changed  the way they completed  their outbound 
journey (with the associated costs) if theyd known about the limitations of their insurance 
policies. 
I understand that Ms F has said the other  claiming  option she had with another  travel 
insurance policy is no longer available to her. I dont know if thats correct and if so why that 
option isnt open to her, but Im mindful that her claim to IPA was started around a year after 
her travel disruption, and the completed  claim forms with the supporting  evidence  of 
expenses paid was provided to IPA several  months after the claim began. Whilst I 
understand Ms Fs frustration about  having two claims declined  by IPA, I cant fairly say IPA 
is responsible for her other  claiming  option not being available to her.
Overall, I do think  IPA has fairly  compensated Ms F and Mr T for the misleading advice it 
gave them with the payment of £100  it has already paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN01256853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2020.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0125685