K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc applied  a default to his credit file when they 
shouldnt have. He would  like the default  removed from his credit file. 
background
Mr M had a credit card with the bank. He had a direct debit set up on his current account  to 
pay off the credit card balance every month.  
In 2016, Mr M travelled  to Australia for two years. He says that he told the bank about this 
move. He returned  home on a number  of occasions.  In August 2017, when he was home,  he 
made a purchase  using  his credit card of around £100. As he had set up the direct  debit  and 
he had funds in his account,  he thought nothing more about it when he returned to Australia. 
He assumed that his credit card balance would be paid. 
However, the bank  had decided to cancel this direct  debit in July 2017. They say that this 
was because it had been dormant for over 12 months. 
Because the direct debit was cancelled,  the credit card balance wasnt  paid.  The bank wrote 
to Mr M at his home address in the UK on a number of occasions from August 2017 saying 
that the direct debit  had been cancelled and that he should set up a new one. They also told 
him that the credit balance was outstanding and they applied late payment  fees to his 
account. The bank  say that they sent Mr M SMS  text messages and emailed once, as well, 
asking him to contact  the bank. 
As the bank had heard nothing from Mr M, they cancelled his credit card and applied a 
default to his credit file. 
Mr M says that he didnt see any of these  messages  or the letters whilst he was in Australia. 
Mr M returned home from Australia in June 2018. He says that it was then that he saw all the 
letters from the bank.  He had credit card statements that told him there  was still an 
outstanding balance but they didnt mention that the direct debit had been cancelled. There  
was a letter dated 20 October 2017 that told him the direct  debit  had been  cancelled. 
When Mr M became aware  that the balance was still outstanding on the credit  card,  he paid 
it off immediately. 
He complained to the bank about the way he had been treated. He didnt think that a default 
shouldve been  applied to his credit  file because he had money to pay off the balance. This 
wouldve gone through if the bank hadnt  cancelled his direct  debit. 
The bank didnt  uphold  Mr Ms complaint  as they thought they had truthfully  reported  that 
Mr M had defaulted his account.  But they did refund him the late payment fees that they had 
applied to his account. They suggested  that he register a notice of correction on his credit 
file. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this decision so he came  to us. 
Ref: DRN07501732Our investigator decided  that either  party  hadnt done anything  wrong.  But in order to reach 
and fair and reasonable outcome, he recommended that the bank  remove  the adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ms credit file relating  to the August 2017  transaction. 
The bank didnt  accept  this decision so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in these circumstances, for the bank to remove  
the adverse information on Mr Ms credit file relating  to the credit card purchase made in 
August 2017.  I will explain  why. 
I dont think that Mr M wouldve been aware  that his direct debit had been cancelled at the 
time that he made  his purchase  using the credit  card. But, I dont see why the bank couldnt 
have told him that it had been cancelled when it was done. Instead,  the letter was sent out 
on 20 October 2017. Had Mr M been sent the letter when the decision was made to cancel 
the direct  debit, he wouldve seen it when he was back home  from Australia. I have no doubt 
that he would then have made arrangements to set up another direct debit. I think  the bank 
unnecessarily delayed telling Mr M that his direct debit had been cancelled. 
I do think that the bank  did try to contact Mr M when  the credit card payment was missed. I 
take their point that it is for Mr M to monitor his own account. I agree. But, the bank was 
aware that Mr M had gone to Australia. He told them when he left. The bank were also made  
aware of this when  they called his home phone number and the woman who answered told 
them he was still in Australia. 
The bank did send  SMS text messages and an email to Mr M as well as the letters. So, I 
dont think that there  is anything else that they couldve done.
The bank were  fair and reasonable in refunding  the late payment fees to Mr M. 
All in all, I dont think either party is really at fault here. But, I do think that the actions of the 
bank have had an adverse effect on Mr Ms ability to get credit.  
I think that this is unfair, especially considering the following:
the balance  outstanding was around £100;
as soon as Mr M found  that he owed the balance,  he paid it immediately;
Mr M always had sufficient funds to pay this balance so I dont think  that not paying  it 
was intentional;
Mr M had no idea that his direct  debit had been cancelled.  
So, I think that the bank should  remove the adverse information on Mr Ms credit  file relating 
to the transaction in August 2017. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think that it is fair and reasonable for Mr Ms credit file to be 
amended. So, I require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to remove the adverse information on 
Mr Ms credit file relating  to the purchase  on his credit card in August  2017.
Ref: DRN07501733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0750173