K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr S says Coventry Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think CBS made it clear that Mr S didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it 
out. I say this as the information in the mortgage application and associated paperwork 
set out the options  Mr S had regarding  the PPI, which included that it didnt have to be 
taken.
CBS didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
So whilst I accept Mr S had good  sick pay and substantial savings, it was up to him to 
decide whether  this meant the policy met his needs  or not. However, CBS still had to 
make sure he got the information he needed to make this decision for himself.
Its possible  the information CBS gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means CBS doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But CBS has said it will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  CBS didnt  tell Mr S, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, CBS offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he said about the savings he 
had with the business. However, as Ive explained  above, CBS didnt give Mr S advice about  
the PPI, meaning  it was for him to decide  whether  his existing savings meant he didnt need 
the insurance. So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN01913392But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It will do this, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0191339