K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Pello Capital Limited (Cornhill) gave unsuitable investment advice and 
executed trades without  his authority, which resulted  in a loss.
background
Mr L took out an individual trading account with Cornhill in December 2009 on an execution  
only basis. Mr L selected his objective as growth and ticked the following when self-
assessing his attitude to risk, I accept some risk and possible losses but I expect my 
portfolio to be in quality  investments which will grow in value over time. 
Mr L says that he was risk averse  and by 2013 his focus was on capital preservation only as 
hed sustained some  significant losses. From  this point he did not invest  additional funds  
with Cornhill. 
Mr L says Cornhill gave him advice and the recommendations  they made were unsuitable 
and were not made in his best interests. Hes identified trades concerning with different 
firms, in which he says there was a significant conflict of interest as Cornhill advisers were  
directly connected to the firms.
Mr L also maintains that he did not give consent to purchase of £31,668 shares  in a 
particular business.  He believes this transaction took place whilst he was abroad.
Cornhill say advice wasnt given and Mr L made his own investment decisions based on 
information they provided. Cornhill rely upon  the review  documents  and Mr Ls pattern of 
trading to show that he was aware  of the type of investments made  by Cornhill,  namely, that 
they were speculative and higher risk. All trades were  made with Mr Ls consent. Cornhill say 
Mr L hasnt presented a fair picture  as did make gains as well as losses.
Cornhill say they acted  as brokers for some  businesses  and acknowledge they received 
shares and warrants as part of their remuneration  whilst  acting in that capacity for these  
firms. But they maintain that this conflict of interest  was explained in their terms of business 
and set out in the placing  letters,  so Mr L was aware of it. Cornhill say Mr L wanted to be 
given information  about these shares as they were released at a discount  and so there was 
potential for good  profit  to be made. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  On balance,  she thought Cornhill  had provided  
Mr L with advice. Looking  at the documents  from the time, our investigator  thought  that Mr L 
knew Cornhill only dealt  with high risk and speculative investments. She thought  Mr L had 
therefore accepted the associated risks and he had told Cornhill  he had a sizeable capacity 
for loss. Overall, our investigator thought the investments recommended  to Mr L were not 
unsuitable. She took into account that over time Mr L credited the account with £78, 560 and 
had withdrawn £134,457.89.  So, whilst  there was evidence to show that he sustained some  
losses, some investments met the original  objective of growth.
Our investigator thought it was more likely than not that Mr L had consented to the trades 
that were made. The balance of evidence suggested  that Mr L had an active role in his 
investments.
It was common ground that there was a conflict of interest in respect of some  of the trades  
recommended to Mr L. But our investigator was satisfied that Cornhill had implemented a 
conflict of interest policy and had informed Mr L where  there was a potential conflict of 
interest. Overall, she decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN02538562Mr L disagrees with the outcome. He says Cornhill purchased  around  £30,000  in shares 
without his consent. Other losses were incurred when Cornhill  advised  Mr L to invest  
£50,000 into another business at a time when he wanted to leave Cornhill. Mr L says he was 
led to believe that this investment was the safest investment [he] could  possibly make   
safer than houses. He also questions a placement  that was made,  as a result of which  he 
sustained a loss. Mr L believes that Cornhill  didnt act in his best interests as they benefitted 
from the trades that were placed. Further, he had a lower attitude  to risk and lost a 
substantial sum due to inappropriate advice  from Cornhill. 
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given the passage of time, many call 
recordings are no longer available and theres limited documentation.  So, Ive made  my 
decision based upon the balance of probabilities, in other words, on what  I think is more 
likely than not to have happened.
attitude to risk
Mr L says that he was a cautious investor  and hes pointed to the change  in his objectives  
over time. 
Its evident from the application form that Mr L had investment  experience when he opened 
his trading account. Whilst  Mr L was recorded  as a retail client, as at 2009 he already  had 
five years experience  in trading options, spread betting and had ten years experience 
trading shares  on execution only accounts.  Mr L said he had no investment restrictions.  The 
balance of evidence  shows  that Cornhill only dealt within high risk and speculative 
investments. Further, the introduction letter set out a series of risk warnings about  different 
types of investments. Given  his experience, Im satisfied that Mr L would have understood 
the nature  of the products promoted and recommended by Cornhill.
The 2010  review referred  expressly to Cornhill  investing in speculative  investments and 
Mr Ls objective with Cornhill was speculation.  By 2012, Mr Ls objective was capital growth.  
At review in March 2013, whilst it was recorded  that Mr Ls overall investment objective was 
to preserve capital  and provide income, his responses specific  to risk attitude and objectives  
with Cornhill were different. Mr L signed the form and ticked yes to the following (as he had 
done in 2012):
Do you understand  that Cornhill  Capital  deals only in high risk or speculative investments 
and that these are only suitable for investors  who are seeking  to speculate?
Do you understand  that these high risk or speculative investments are not generally 
suitable for investors who are seeking  to preserve capital or earn income through 
investment?
Do you understand  that these high risk or speculative investments carry a substantial 
amount of risk to capital and are only suitable  for investors who have the financial capacity  to 
bare that risk?
Ref: DRN02538563If you are seeking to speculate with Cornhill Capital, would you say that you have an 
aggressive attitude to risk in your investments with Cornhill Capital rather than a 
conservative or moderate one?
He could afford to lose 20-40% of his portfolio as at 2012 and 40-50% of his portfolio without 
having an impact on his everyday lifestyle as at 2013.
Ive seen that in 2013  Mr L said no that in placing funds with Cornhill  Capital for the 
purpose of speculation and in the knowledge that there can be no guarantee that investment 
objectives such as preservation of capital, income  or capital growth  will be achieved. But I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to consider this response in isolation, given the rest of the 
information on the review  form.
In my view, Mr L had a level of investment  knowledge and experience that meant  he was 
capable of making investment decisions and assessing the risks connected with them. 
Further, the subsequent pattern of investment and size of trades  placed  was consistent with 
Mr L having an appetite for higher risk and an understanding  of the risks he was taking. 
advice
Cornhill say Mr L held an execution only account  and they didnt advise Mr L to make  the 
trades. In contrast, Mr L, says all the trades  were  advised.  As our investigator has explained, 
for advice  to have been given, Cornhill would need  to have given Mr L their opinion on the 
merits of buying  or selling a particular investment.
The terms of business say that Cornhill will not act as an investment manager, but, may 
provide you with advice,  recommendations and research  on an unsolicited basis  . . If you 
decide to transact  business on the basis of communications received from us, you accept 
that we have no obligation to advise you on a continuing basis with respect  to investments 
purchased on the basis  of our recommendations. . . Although we will endeavour to provide 
advice when you request it, you acknowledge that we are not obliged to do so.  
Ive seen that Cornhill obtained information about Mr Ls investment experience, his financial 
situation and his objectives. So, they were in a position to consider his risk tolerance and 
capacity for loss.
Its common ground that Cornhill promoted  the sale of some particular shares and Ive seen 
that Cornhill acted  as broker for some  firms  Mr L has raised concerns about trading with. 
The marketing material for some of these  investments promoted by Cornhill, explained that 
the term sheets, did not constitute advice or a recommendation  to invest  in any party. 
Investors were urged to take independent advice before considering  an investment.
Ive balanced  this written  information against  Mr Ls recollection that the recommendations 
were made by phone. Given the passage  of time, the majority of calls are no longer  
available. But I have  listened to a call from 2016. Upon telling Mr L that he would be 
compensated for lost opportunity in selling some  stock, Cornhill recommended  further 
investment into it. At the beginning of the call the adviser stated he could not give advice due 
to a conflict of interest. Details were  given about  the opportunity. Mr L asked to speak again 
later. In the second call, Mr L specifically  asked what would be advised given his risk profile. 
The adviser went on to say, theres a good price  and theres a trade in this. Listening  to 
the totality of these  calls, Im satisfied that the adviser made a recommendation and it was 
clear, from the questions Mr L asked, that he would be relying upon the responses given.
Ref: DRN02538564Ive also seen a series of emails from Mr L from 2012-2013 about  some of the trades he had 
made. Within these emails Mr L refers  to advice he was given by Cornhill to add to certain 
shareholdings. I think  these contemporaneous emails  support Mr Ls assertion that advice 
was given about which trades  he should  make. Thats not inconsistent  with Cornhills terms 
of business. And Cornhill havent  provided  any notes from the time to show that Mr L was 
mistaken in his recollection  of advice being given in the calls.
Ive seen some of the placing  documents say that acceptance of the placing participation 
was, purely on an execution-only non-advisory basis, but I dont think  that helps  me as the 
recommendations had already been given by the time the placing documents were signed.
I appreciate there can be a fine line between giving information and making a 
recommendation. But on balance, I prefer Mr Ls account and I think it is more likely than not 
that Cornhill did provide advice to Mr L about  the trades he placed.
suitability
Ive looked at the totality of information provided.  In addition to Mr Ls experience, set out 
above, at the time of application  for the account he had investments and/or savings of 
£400,000, placing  £100,000 with Cornhill  and he had an annual  salary of £150,000.  By 
2010, his income  was £200,000 a year,  he had investments of £500,000 and was willing to 
investment £100,000 in speculative investments. Mr Ls capacity for loss was recorded as 
25% of his overall portfolio.  By 2012  the figures increased. Mr Ls salary  was £180,000 but 
he had £700,000 for investment, a portfolio of £270,000 and could bear losses  of 20-40% of 
that portfolio.  It was recorded that Mr L was prepared to invest  up to £150,000 in speculative  
investments. By 2013 Mr Ls annual income  had dropped to £100,000,  he had £200,000 for 
investments, with a portfolio of £160,000.  He was recorded as being at maximum limit of risk 
with Cornhill and only wished to invest current funds  along with a sum for a specific  
investment. His capacity for loss was recorded as 40-50% of his overall  portfolio.
Ive set out the focus on high risk and speculative investments that Cornhill held themselves 
out as having. And Ive taken into account Mr Ls capacity for loss, along with the evidence 
of his understanding of the risks.  Its clear from the calls and nature of the emails  Ive seen 
that he was very involved in the trading process.
I cant see that Mr L was given any guarantees about the trades he placed. The investments  
were in emerging companies and Mr L was aware they were on AIM. In my view they 
matched the level of risk that he wished  to take and he appears to have had the capacity for 
loss that could potentially arise from that risk. I understand he feels  that Cornhill misled him, 
but in terms of suitability the balance of evidence shows that the investments were  risky 
ventures that he wanted and had the capacity to take on.
Ive seen that over the years, returns were made as well as losses; I cant fairly ignore these. 
The parties dont  agree the exact  figures  but Ive noted that Cornhill say £78,560  credited to 
the account and Mr L withdrew £134,457.89. Mr L says profits  of £72,153 were achieved. 
And the loss figures presented by Mr L, havent  factored in a compensation payment made  
by Cornhill. I appreciate  it was greatly disappointing when Mr L went on to sustain losses on 
some trades and I dont  doubt this was a worrying time. Its clear from the emails that Mr L 
was upset when  he lost out. But it isnt fair and reasonable  for me to assess this matter  with 
the benefit of hindsight  and the fact that the risk of loss did materialise, doesnt mean the 
recommendations were  unsuitable. The losses were a foreseeable consequence of the 
nature of the investments  Mr L made.
Ref: DRN02538565Mr L also says hed wanted to close his account  in 2013 but was persuaded by a director  to 
stay when another unsuitable trade was recommended to him. I havent seen anything to 
show that undue pressure was applied to Mr L or that he made a request to close the 
account at this time. I think  its more likely than not that he made an informed choice to stay 
and Ive noted Cornhill have said that Mr L was still receiving dividends at this time. By this 
point Mr L had been investing  with Cornhill  for a number of years  and was aware of the risks 
of losing capital.  This is supported by the review documents from 2013. Whilst Mr Ls overall 
objective across all investments was capital preservation,  he specifically agreed to higher 
risk with Cornhill (as set out in the quotations above) and I think thats  supported by his 
decision not add additional funds to these investments, he was content for funds to be 
reinvested if sold. Hed actively chosen to limit his exposure with Cornhill and again that 
suggests he was aware  of what he was doing. So, it cant fairly be said that he didnt 
understand the risks that came with the type of investments he continued to make.  
Unfortunately, the profit  he had hoped  to achieve  did not materialise.
Mr L has said that reassurance was given that an investment of £50,000 was as safe as 
houses. I havent seen  anything to support that such  a guarantee was given. I think  its inherently  
unlikely that such  a reassurance would have  been made given the nature of the investment  and 
the risk warnings that Cornhill only traded in speculative and higher risk investments.
Likewise, theres nothing to support Mr Ls assertion that over £30,000  of shares  were  
purchased without his consent. Cornhill dispute this and rely upon the contract  note sent to 
Mr L at the time. Had such  a sizeable purchase happened without Mr Ls authority, I would 
have expected the relationship between the parties  to have broken down. Instead, Mr L 
continued to place trades with Cornhill and purchased more  shares  in this particular business. 
On the balance of probabilities, Mr L hasnt established that something went wrong  here.
Taking everything into account,  I cant fairly  say that the recommendations made were 
unsuitable for Mr L. And in any event, Im satisfied that Cornhill had given Mr L enough 
information for him to understand the risks at the time and I consider that he was aware of 
what he was doing. 
conflict of interest and best interests
Mr L and his representatives say Cornhill were placing the interests of the business above  
those of Mr L, when  recommending investments  in businesses  with which employees had 
connections.
From what  Ive seen, Cornhill  were  open about the potential for conflict. It was addressed  in 
the terms of business  as follows:
20.1 When we give you investment advice or arrange transactions on your behalf,  we, any 
associated company or some other person  connected with us, may have an interest, 
relationship or arrangement that IS material in relation to the investment, transaction or 
service concerned. You agree that we may effect  transactions on your behalf and provide 
services to you notwithstanding such interests  and notwithstanding such interests may 
involve a conflict or potential conflict with our duties to you. Under  FSA rules  we are required  
to formulate a conflicts  of interest policy and shall ensure that transactions  are effected on 
terms which are not materially less favourable to you than if the conflict or potential  conflict  
had not existed. Any conflicts which we believe we are not able to manage will be disclosed 
to you.
Ref: DRN02538566Further Cornhill had a policy for managing  conflict situations and Mr L appears to have been 
aware of the connections between Cornhill  and the businesses hes identified.  Thats  
supported further  by the placing documents signed at the time, which stated that Cornhill  
advisers were directors and/or shareholders  who stood to gain from the shares being sold. 
So, Im satisfied that there was transparency here.
Cornhill have  explained  that because of the nature of these relationships Mr L was able to 
buy some  shares at a discount when they were released to the market. And theyve provided 
an example where  Mr L profited from buying  shares  on early release after hearing similar 
information about a different business. Whilst I dont have call recordings from earlier trades,  
the calls made in 2016 support the fact that Mr L was open  to hearing about  this type of 
opportunity and agreed to discuss the potential  to invest  once  shares were  on the open 
market. Ive considered  that by this point,  Mr L had sustained a series  of losses, so was 
again fully aware  that the potential to make a gain wasnt guaranteed. And where  things 
went wrong on one particular trade, Cornhill entered an agreement with Mr L to pay 
compensation, so I wont be considering that particular  matter any further.
 
Ive thought carefully about this and as Ive said, theres limited  information about what  was 
actually said at the time in respect of the two other  businesses, but on balance there isnt 
enough for me to find that Cornhill  werent acting in Mr Ls best interests. Mr L agreed to 
hear these  recommendations and Cornhill were open about the potential conflicts and risks.  
The balance of evidence  shows  that Mr L was involved in the decision-making process and 
knew the risks.
Taking everything into account,  I wont be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr L, but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0253856