K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  (BOS)  didnt do enough to 
prevent her from becoming  the victim  of a scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  In 2018  Mrs B and her husband  were  the victims of an 
investment scam. Theyd been contacted  by a scammer who was impersonating  a genuine 
investment company A. On 15 November 2018  Mrs B instructed a payment from her BOS 
account of £6,000 to the account details the scammer had provided.  This was done through  
her online banking. 
BOS identified that this payment was unusual  in relation to Mrs Bs normal  account activity.  
So, they blocked the payment and asked Mrs B to attend a branch. Mrs B attended a branch 
the following  day and explained that she wished to make the payment. Whilst in branch she 
spoke to someone from BOS fraud team who explained to Mrs B why the payment had 
been stopped and provided her with further  information. 
At the end of the call it was agreed  that Mrs B would do further  research about A, but that 
the block on the payment had been  lifted and if she decided to instruct it again, it should go 
through. After  having returned  home, Mrs B then went on to instruct two payments to A, 
these were for £6,000 and £19,000.  
Around a month later Mrs B made two further  large transactions as a result of the scam, 
these were for around  £25,000  and £15,000. Shortly after these payments the bank that 
received them (which was a different  bank  to the original two payments) contacted BOS as 
they had concerns they might have  been made as a result of a scam.  At this point the scam 
was discovered and BOS  made efforts to recover the initial  two payments, but unfortunately 
by this time,  no funds  remained. 
Mrs B complained to BOS. She was unhappy that they hadnt  done more to prevent her 
making the payments. She says she felt reassured  by BOS that the investment was genuine. 
BOS sympathised,  but felt theyd done enough to highlight  the risk of fraud  or scams,  and 
said ultimately it was Mrs B who instructed the payments. So, they declined  to offer a refund. 
The matter  was referred to our service and one of our investigators  didnt think  it should be 
upheld. In summary he agreed  BOS had given Mrs B sufficient warnings  about  fraud  and 
scams. Mrs B still disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman  to review her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator  and for largely  the same reasons. I understand 
this will be disappointing and so Ill explain why. Id like to start by making clear that I accept 
that Mrs B has been the victim of a cruel scam and a victim of crime. But what I must 
consider is whether BOS can fairly be held liable for her loss. Mrs Bs outstanding loss stems 
from the initial two payments,  so Ill focus on those  as the third and fourth  payments have 
fortunately been recovered in full. 
Ref: DRN06497472It isnt in dispute that Mrs B herself authorised  the payments in question. BOS (correctly in 
my opinion) identified the first payment for £6,000  as unusual  and asked  Mrs B to attend a 
branch which  took place  the next day. In branch Mrs B spoke via phone to a member of the 
fraud team and Ive listened carefully  to that call. 
Extracts of what BOS agent said to Mrs B are recorded below:
Weve had people contacting customers pretending they are from investment companies. 
And asking  them to pay in but really its going to a fraudsters account.  So we have  to just 
check that you know exactly where  you are sending the money to and that no-ones trying  to 
con you or scam you.
The agent  asked  Mrs B if the investment  company contacted her first or if she contacted  
them. Mrs B confirmed we contacted them. 
As long as youre 100% happy  that this is all a genuine company, happy that no-one has 
contacted you unexpectedly and asked you to move any money,  and its not for anything  
else, other than what youve said then I can send this for you. Its just that if we send this 
money and it does result in fraud  or a scam, it can be really difficult to get the money back. 
So thats why we need to make sure that youre 100% happy to send this today. Are you 
happy that youve done enough research on the company? Youre happy that you know  
theyre genuine
As a result of this Mrs B said that she would go away and make some  extra  checks and it 
was explained  that should she instruct the payment online again, it would go through.  
Also during  the call the agent  asked  lots of questions about  how the investment opportunity 
had come about and details  of the dealings between  Mrs B, her husband and the company 
involved. There was also a period where a staff member in branch looked  at an email  Mrs B 
was showing them and didnt  think it was obviously a scam. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that BOS  did enough to alert Mrs B to the 
risk of fraud  and scams in relation to the payment she was instructing.  I also think  that Mrs B 
understood this at the time, as she declined the offer for the payment to go through there 
and then and went away to conduct  more  checks.  And given this interaction,  I dont think  its 
unreasonable that BOS allowed both the £6,000 and £19,000 payments to go through later 
the same  day. By that point they were  expecting them as Mrs B had told them she would be 
making two payments. 
BOS, in certain circumstances, would  have the ability  to refuse  to make a payment,  but I 
dont think they reasonably could have done so here. I dont think  the threshold to take that 
serious step was met or that they were wrong  to follow Mrs Bs instructions to make the 
payments. 
I can also see that once  BOS became aware  there was an issue,  they promptly reported this 
to the bank that had received the first two payments. So, I dont think  they are responsible  
for unreasonable delays which impacted on the amount that could be recovered. It seems to 
be a feature of these  scams that funds are very quickly moved on by the scammers,  likely in 
an effort to frustrate  such recovery attempts. 
Ref: DRN06497473Mrs B says she thinks that BOS had contacted  A and confirmed that they were  genuine.  
BOS say that no such contact was made  and that it was for Mrs B to do research for the 
payments she was instructing. BOS have checked  their records  and say no call was made  to 
the genuine A (or the scammers). And whilst  Id expect  a bank to provide reasonable 
assistance to their customers,  this isnt a step Id expect them  to take.  I dont doubt  Mrs Bs 
integrity, but I think if BOS  had made  such a call, there would be a record of it (as there  is for 
her call to the fraud team). 
It was for Mrs B to research prior to giving instructions for the payments. And I remain 
satisfied that BOS did enough  in this case to highlight the risks. Im not persuaded that BOS 
provided Mrs B with reassurance that this wasnt a scam. So whilst they did confirm that A 
had a website  that appeared to be genuine,  they also highlighted that scammers  pretend  to 
be investment companies and recommended  that Mrs B make further checks. 
Im of course  very sorry to hear that Mrs B has lost a significant amount as a result of the 
scam. But, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold BOS liable in these circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0649747