K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1998 in connection with their joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P complained to this Service. They applied for a joint mortgage in 1998. They 
said they didnt  know PPI had been added to their account until they cancelled the PPI in 
2011. Mr and Mrs P were not sure who sold the PPI to them but they complained to 
Nationwide. Our adjudicator thought  the complaint should be upheld  because Mrs P was not 
eligible to buy the PPI.
Nationwide accepted liability for the PPI sale on a non-advised  basis. Nationwide disagreed 
with our adjudicator  who upheld  the PPI mis-sale complaint and asked for that matter  to be 
looked at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  where I explained why I thought 
Nationwide was responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint for Mr and Mrs P. I 
also explained why I thought the whole mis-sale complaint should be upheld for Mr and Mrs 
P. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties. Mr and Mrs P had nothing  
further to add. 
Nationwide said they accepted the PPI policy had been mis-sold to Mrs P because  she was 
not eligible  for cover. So Nationwide offered to pay back Mrs Ps PPI premiums plus interest 
in line with our approach.  
However, Nationwide also said Mr Ps part of the PPI policy was not mis-sold because he 
could still have made a successful  claim  on the policy for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment cover. 
I reconsidered Nationwides arguments  very carefully and issued my provisional decision in 
March 2019 where  I agreed with Nationwide that it had mis-sold the policy  to Mrs P, but Mr 
Ps part of the policy had not been  mis-sold.  We sent a copy of my provisional decision to 
both parties. Neither  party had anything further to add, so I see no reason  to change the 
conclusions I made  in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case.
I upheld this complaint  against Nationwide but Nationwide did not completely agree with me. 
It agreed to uphold the complaint about Mrs Ps part of the PPI contract because Nationwide 
accepted she was not eligible to buy the policy. So instead of paying all the PPI premium to 
Mr and Mrs P, Nationwide has offered  to pay back all of Mrs Ps premiums with interest   
which is in line with our approach.  
Nationwide said it would  not uphold Mr Ps half of the PPI complaint. I am going to say this is 
a fair offer to Mr and Mrs P. I know  this will disappoint them, so I will explain why.
Ref: DRN06860122I am going to say Mr Ps part of the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Nationwide made it clear by having  a separate  PPI application form  which  I 
have seen - that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he may not be able to remember  this.
 Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr P got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
 Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But I think  he clearly chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - 
so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
 Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because : 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back to Mr P the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P said - including what theyve said about  having 
savings to pay for their mortgage and not knowing the PPI had been added  to their mortgage 
account. But Ive considered these  points and they do not change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr P any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of Mr Ps PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr P any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr P the extra he paid each  month because  the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should also pay 
Mr P 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Mr Ps part of the PPI policy
Mr Ps part of the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Ref: DRN06860123But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Mrs Ps part of the PPI policy
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mrs P in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt  
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Nationwide Building  Society should:
Pay Mrs P the amount  she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Nationwide  Building Society can 
take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.  
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0686012