K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1999, to cover  a mortgage. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. This is because Santander  recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs P, but I dont 
think it was suitable  for them. I say this because Mr P (the person covered) had been 
diagnosed with a long-term  illness several years  earlier.  It is an illness that can lead to 
serious complications. It is not clear that Santander  drew to Mr and Mrs Ps attention  clearly 
enough that they would face difficulties claiming,  if a claim related to the illness.  
I dont think theyd have  taken the PPI if theyd understood the limitations  in the policy.  
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Santander UK Plc should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8 % a year. 
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander UK Plc can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must  give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Ref: DRN02904012I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs P compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0290401