K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Ms Y complain  about the handling of their claim for damage to their home by their 
insurer The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) and its agents.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my provisional decision and copied  here.  
Mr H and Ms Ys home was damaged by an escape  of water in June 2018  and they claimed 
to NFU.  It took a month for the leak to be repaired  and in September their contents  were 
removed stored within  sealed  containers  and stripping out work  began.  NFU replaced the 
loss adjuster when  relations broke down with Mr H and Ms Y and agreed to pay for a 
surveyor to represent  Mr H and Ms Y with the claim. Between October and December 2018 
Mr H and Ms Ys home was dried  out. In December they complained about slow progress of 
the claim.  In January 2019 repairs started and settlement was agreed for their contents.
Mr H and Ms Y decided to stay next to their home  for the first few months of the claim. 
Following a meeting  that Mr H arranged in January 2019, NFU agreed to Mr H and Ms Y 
moving into rented accommodation. NFU offered reimbursement of hotel costs  for any time 
when they wouldnt  be able to stay in rental  accommodation. NFU said Mr H and Ms Y 
added alterations  and improvements to the repairs and the work finished in June 2019.
Mr H and Ms Y said NFU and its suppliers took too long to identify the source of the leak and 
took seven months  to start the repairs and were unhappy with the conduct of NFUs loss 
adjusters. They said the appointment of a surveyor by the loss adjuster was a potential  
conflict of interest because of the relationship between the firms  of loss adjusters.
Mr H and Ms Y said they received photos of their possessions which showed containers had 
been opened without their consent  and therefore  illegally. Mr H said Ms Ys health  condition 
wasnt taken into consideration by NFU or its agents  as required as a protected 
characteristic under the Equalities Act 2010.  They requested compensation  for the poor 
service theyd received  and having  a prolonged stay in a caravan due to NFUs delays. 
NFU said the initial trace  and access work  shouldnt  have taken a month to complete. It said 
it appointed new loss adjusters as Mr H and Ms Y were unhappy with the service.  It said one 
of these left his employment, but it thought the loss adjusters had met their obligations on 
the claim.  NFU said it appointed experts as permitted under the policy, with the best of 
intentions in order to progress matters, and said there was no conflict  of interest.
NFU said Mr H and Ms Y were unable to use rented accommodation as they needed to 
remain on site. NFU said it told them  it thought the claim would take a further four months, 
but this might change. NFU said a caravan was the option favoured by Mr H and he provided 
a link for trailers. It said there  was some disagreement over the costs, but that an offer of a 
hotel or rental accommodation was always made available.  
NFU apologised that its agents  didnt ask for Mr H and Ms Ys permission before accessing 
their contents but said the request came from Mr H and Ms Ys own surveyor  in order  to 
prevent possible  mould contamination. NFU acknowledged avoidable delays with the claim 
and poor communications and sent payment of £600 compensation.
Ref: DRN00217472Mr H and Ms Y didnt accept the payment as it didnt reflect the distress,  loss and time taken. 
Mr H said NFU hadnt addressed Ms Ys protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010 
and had failed  to avoid discrimination and risk to Ms Y. He said thered been unlawful access 
to their possessions and requested the names and addresses of the people  involved so they 
could take advice from the police.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said thered been delays 
early in the claim that were outside of NFUs control.  She said NFU acted quickly  to appoint  
another contractor  to carry  out the leak detection.  She said alternative accommodation was 
arranged at Mr H and Ms Ys request and NFU later agreed to rental accommodation.  
The investigator said that NFU appointed three loss adjusters because  of Mr H and Ms Ys 
concerns. She said NFU can choose which experts it appoints  to carry out its work. She said 
NFU admitted that when Mr H and Ms Ys possessions were  accessed the correct process 
wasn't followed. She recognised the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr H and Ms Y 
but said NFU had put things right by apologising  and paying compensation of £600.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings saying they contained inaccuracies  and 
misleading conclusions.  He said hed worked hard for months to get NFU to meet industry  
standards and its no quibble pledge. He said they wanted their home  reinstated  as quickly 
as possible because of Ms Ys ill health . But NFUs conduct demonstrated a behavioural 
choice, not unfortunate errors.  Mr H set out the issues of their complaint  as follows.
Discrimination  Mr H gave us permission to refer the issue  of protected  characteristics and 
discrimination to the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman.
Appointment of professionals  Mr H said page  18 of the policy document states we pay 
will include  any costs  professional fees. But doesnt state that NFU can choose or require 
the appointment of a surveyor from a firm related to the loss adjusters.  
Loss adjusters urgency  and flexibility  Mr H said it was untrue for the investigator to say 
NFU changed loss adjusters to be flexible with them. He said the first loss adjuster was 
dismissed because  of his behaviour, but call recordings  were  unavailable. He said the 
second loss adjuster resigned and the third loss adjuster  never visited  them  but sent emails. 
Mr H said his request that the loss adjusters be removed from the process  was denied.  
Accommodation  Mr H said the loss adjuster  told them  a similar property  wouldnt be made 
available and suggested they stay put with a kitchen pod. Mr H thought this dangerous and 
said the policy allowed  up to £75,000  over two years. Mr H said they agreed to a trailer as 
they were told theyd be back at home by Christmas. Mr H said hed promised his wife and 
told NFU that she wouldnt succumb  to her illness while living in a trailer.  He said It was only 
at a meeting in January  2019 the surveyor agreed to allowing them rented accommodation.
Delays  Mr H said the delays were within NFUs control as it relied upon its trusted supplier 
network and is responsible for their actions. He said hed contacted NFU many times about  
lack of progress.  He said there was a 35-day delay in detecting the leak as NFUs  supplier 
misdiagnosed and didnt  follow up investigations.  And this caused extensive further damage 
and prolonged loss of their home. He said the investigators use of the term inconvenient 
was inadequate  as it was in excess of 100 days until removal  of the furniture and drying. 
Access to securely  stored home contents   Mr H said his surveyor  told the loss adjuster that 
storage of damp  soft furnishings  was futile. He said the loss adjuster instructed entry to their 
Ref: DRN00217473items without their consent  and non evidence-based testing was then used. He said it was 
NFUs intention to limit costs regardless of risks or dangers of infection to his wife.
£600 payment  and event analysis  Mr H said he saved NFU over £600 by getting the water 
company not to charge  for all the leaked  water. And negotiating a holiday let, bringing their 
house keeper  with them. He said £600  didnt reflect the pain and suffering NFU inflicted on 
them through its delaying tactics to force them to accept whatever  it wanted. Or the time and 
organisational skills hed used to get NFU to engage. He said NFU had shown  no willingness 
to learn from the events  and hadnt given  an honest  account of what took place. Mr H said 
an NFU board member  should have taken ownership of the issues as he had proposed.
Moving forward  Mr H said he wanted  a full review  and referral  to an ombudsman for a 
detailed and forensic analysis of their complaint, taken  as a whole not as constituent parts.
Mr H added that Ms Y had since lost her employment, and that we should consider this as a 
significant additional consequence  of NFUs handling of the claim.  
my provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I found that aspects of Mr H and Ms Ys claim were  very poorly 
handled by NFU and its agents. Mr H has confirmed there are no unresolved  issues with the 
claim. I thought that compensation of £1,000 was fair and NFU agreed to this, but Mr H said 
they dont feel this adequately reflects the pain and suffering NFUs handling  of the claim 
caused them  or the number of hours spent encouraging NFU and its contractors to perform 
to an acceptable  standard. Mr H said the Background I set out (see above) lacked details. 
Mr H said there was resistance from NFU to start repairs when the drying finished. He said 
NFUs loss adjuster  intended to appoint a surveyor but didnt when Mr H said this was a 
conflict of interest and NFU appointed a surveyor for Mr H and Ms Y to use at their request. 
Im grateful  for this clarification.
I had said that part of the delay was due to the tendering process  for repairs. Mr H said NFU 
had agreed that the firm stripping out their home would repair  it - the delay was due to NFU 
and its contractors not getting on with it. I said Mr H and Ms Y wanted their home reinstated  
as quickly as possible because of Ms Ys ill health,  but their alterations  extended  the work. 
Mr H said this was only a few days extra work  and was a poor excuse for the delays.  NFU 
said Mr H and Ms Y planned enhancements, including structural alterations and said the 
latter were  estimated at about £20,000,  which would indicate that this would take some time. 
I said the main cause of the delays was NFUs  poor start to the claim and under-estimation 
of the extent of the repairs. Neither  party disagrees with this.
Mr H didnt think NFU could  provide  equivalent  accommodation, and hotels wouldnt accept 
their pets.  He said NFUs loss adjusters made  no attempt to find alternative accommodation 
at the start. NFU said Mr H and Ms Y agreed  to a caravan as the best solution.
In my provisional decision I said communications between the parties  had been strained. Mr 
H said its inappropriate to proportion  this to himself and Ms Y for holding  NFU to account for 
their behaviour. He said call recordings werent  made available  from the first loss adjuster 
and I hadnt taken his 30+ hours of time into consideration. 
Ref: DRN00217474Mr H said the instruction to open  their personal possessions  came from NFUs loss adjuster, 
rather than their surveyor and was a breach of their privacy. NFU agree, but say that the 
suggestion that this should happen came from the surveyor appointed for Mr H and Ms Y.
Mr H said he hadnt stated his wife lost her job as a consequence of the NFU. He copied an 
email hed sent previously  about this, which concluded, This is a significant  additional  
consequence of the NFU Mutuals handling  of our insurance claim and we would request 
you consider the above events when reviewing our complaint.
I said that given  Ms Ys health  condition NFU should have made  every  effort  to expedite 
matters and communicate effectively. I said it hadnt done so as Mr H made  many  calls to 
pursue the claim  and received unclear and misleading information. I said the claim suffered  
from NFUs  lack of overall management. Neither party  disagreed with this.
Mr H said they didnt  present NFUs  cheque for £600 compensation to the bank.  NFU 
confirmed that the cheque  wasnt cashed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  again to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld and for 
the reasons I gave  in my provisional decision.
Ms Y has received treatment for a serious  illness  against  the backdrop of being out of her 
home during the prolonged passage of their claim.  Although  this isnt directly related  to the 
claim, I think  this should have been  in the forefront of NFUs considerations when dealing 
with it. I dont think the Equality Act applies  in these circumstances, but it is open to Mr H 
and Ms Y to complain to the Parliamentary Ombudsman  if they wish.  
Delays
In my provisional decision I said the damage to Mr H and Ms Ys home was far more 
extensive than first anticipated  by NFU. I said drying out started nearly  four months after the 
damage occurred  and it was a further  three months before repairs started. I thought this 
might be partly due to the tendering process,  but Mr H made the point that contractors were 
already arranged. I remain of the view that the evidence of the damage should  have been 
assessed earlier to create  a more realistic timeline  for reinstatement.  
Mr H said there was passive resistance from NFU to starting repairs  when drying completed 
on 3 December 2018. Given that they began at the end of January 2019 and Christmas 
intervened I dont think this was an unreasonable  delay.  Ive reviewed communications  
between the parties,  but I havent found evidence of resistance from NFU to starting repairs.  
Delayed claims cost insurers more money and so its not in their interests  to hold things up.
Mr H said the alterations  they arranged to their home while  it was being reinstated  only took 
a few days and is a poor excuse for the delays. NFU said it was contacted  by Mr H and Ms 
Ys surveyor in December 2018  as they wanted  to do various property enhancements, 
including structural alterations. NFU has said it received an outline structural  plan, the work 
for which was estimated  at around  £20,000.  This indicates work that would take more than a 
few days and would add to the delay in Mr H and Ms Y returning  home.  
Ref: DRN00217475Having said this, I am still of the view that the main cause of the delays was NFUs poor start 
to the claim and under-estimation of the extent of the repairs.  
Appointment of professionals
Unfortunately, three loss adjusters  were involved in the claim and continuity suffered. The 
communications between  the parties  show disagreements about aspects of the claim, 
particularly where  the loss adjusters  have  tried to manage costs. This is part of their role and 
I havent seen  any evidence that they acted unprofessionally.
NFU apologised for the breakdown of communication between the first loss adjuster and Mr
H. NFU brought in a new loss adjuster and allowed Mr H and Ms Y to appoint a surveyor.  I
think that was the right thing to do and showed  flexibility in NFUs  handling of the claim.
Clearly there were disagreements about  alternative  accommodation, Mr H and Ms Ys 
possessions and other parts of the claim and the time taken. Mr Hs relationship with the first 
loss adjuster broke down and thee loss adjuster  was replaced. I dont have call recordings, 
but I have seen email  communications  between  the parties which illustrate  Mr Hs frustration 
in his dealings  with NFU and its agents.  Mr H said he wasnt responsible  for this and I dont 
think theres any benefit in reviewing  this issue further.
Alternative accommodation
Mr H said NFUs loss adjusters made no attempt to find equivalent accommodation which 
would allow them to operate at another location. He said he didnt think NFU could  offer of 
usable alternative accommodation  from the start of the claim. Mr H and Ms Ys requirements 
were quite specific and so he may be correct about this. 
Mr H said that leaving  their home  was a last resort and Ive seen emails at the start of the 
claim that show that after initial difficulties, agreement was reached between the parties 
about Mr H and Ms Ys living arrangements. I think the alternative accommodation only 
became a problem  when  the claim was prolonged into the winter and Mr H and Ms Y were  
concerned about  the impact of this on Ms Ys medical condition. At this point 
accommodation away from their home  was arranged.  
I remain of the view that NFU treated Mr H and Ms Y fairly in the provision of alternative  
accommodation.
Personal possessions
I understood that access to Mr H and Ms Ys personal possessions  was made at the request 
of their surveyor in order to prevent damage. Mr H said he didnt think  this was correct. Its 
not entirely clear  to me now who initiated  this action, but I am clear that it was carried out 
with the intention of determining potential  damage to Mr H and Ms Ys possessions and so 
was in the spirit of proper claims management.  Following  the checks for damage, Mr H and 
Ms Ys claim for the replacement  of damaged  possessions  was met by NFU.
NFU has apologised  to Mr H and Ms Y for its failure to seek their approval before  accessing 
their possessions and I have included this breach in my overall  award of compensation. 
Compensation
Ref: DRN00217476Mr H said he hadnt stated to us previously that Ms Y lost her job as a consequence of the 
NFU, and so I havent considered this further.
Mr H said I hadnt taken  his 30+ hours of time trying  to encourage NFU to meet  an 
acceptable standard for claim handling into consideration.  We dont generally award 
compensation for the time it takes a policyholder  to pursue their claim as this is an inevitable 
consequence of dealing with a claim, particularly one as complex as Mr H and Ms Ys. 
However, I have considered Mr Hs time in dealing with issues that ought  to have been 
resolved more speedily in my overall  assessment of the compensation.
I still think that NFUs poor start to the claim and the subsequent delays due to the under-
estimation of the extent of the repairs were the main cause of the delayed completion.  Given 
Ms Ys health condition  NFU should have  made  every effort  to expedite matters and 
communicate effectively.  I dont think it did so as shown by the many calls Mr H made to 
pursue the claim  and, on occasions, the unclear  and misleading information  he received. I 
remain of the view that the claim suffered  from NFUs lack of overall management.  
Having reconsidered  all of the information available to me, and Mr H and NFUs  responses  
to my provisional decision,  I remain of the view that Mr H and Ms Y received very poor 
service from NFU during  their claim.  I also remain of the view that the award of £1,000  
compensation I suggested  is a fair and reasonable reflection of the impact  of NFUs poor 
service on Mr H and Ms Y. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given here it is my final decision  that the complaint is upheld.  I 
require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited to pay Mr H and Ms 
Y compensation of £1,000  in total for the distress and inconvenience  its poor service  has 
caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0021747