K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) duplicated  pending 
transactions after unauthorised transactions were raised on his account.  Hes said this 
happened a few days in a row and that, as a result, he was left with no money.  Mr P wants 
further compensation for the trouble and upset he experienced.
background
Mr Ps complaint relates  to transactions being  incorrectly duplicated on his account and to 
being given incorrect  information about this issue, and his correct  balance, several times 
over a four day period.  Ive set out a basic timeline of the calls between  Mr P and Halifax 
below:
19 March 2019  Mr P calls Halifax about  disputed transaction. It spots a second 
one, arranges  for both to be refunded and cancels his card.  It provides his balance 
as £73.87.
21 March 2019  Mr P calls Halifax to ask why his balance  is £0. It advised some 
pending transactions from 19 March 2019  have duplicated. Funds were released and 
Halifax paid Mr P £50 compensation and £8 towards phone  calls.
22 March 2019  Mr P calls Halifax to ask why his balance  is £0 again   he says it 
had £108 available that morning and hed only spent  £7. Advised a number  of 
pending transactions on account. Call ended by Mr P when agent going through 
transactions. The duration of this call was approximately 7 minutes 47 seconds.  
22 March 2019  Mr P calls back. Is advised  the issue with duplicated pending 
transactions happened again. Agent advised  will release funds and balance will go 
up to £113.86  in a few minutes.  During this call, Mr P was put through to a 
complaints manager for his complaint from the previous day to be re-opened and 
looked into further. The duration  of this call was approximately 55 minutes and 53 
seconds. 
22 March 2019  Mr P calls again as account  showing  as minus £54. Mr P unhappy 
as account shouldnt be able to go overdrawn.  Frustrated because  of experiencing 
the same  issue again. Duty manager  came on the line but in the end Mr P ends the 
call. The duration  of this call was approximately 22 minutes  and 30 seconds.  
Halifax, following its review of Mr Ps complaint, accepts there was an error where the 
pending transactions on Mr Ps account on 19 March 2019 were  duplicated - which became 
known on 21 March  2019. For this, they paid Mr P £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused and £8 for the call he made.  
Halifax says when Mr P was told again on 22 March  2019 that the transactions had 
duplicated for a second time this was incorrect. They say the transactions  showing were  due 
to Mr Ps spending on the account and different to those pending  the day before. Because  of 
this, the pending transactions were  removed in error. For being given the incorrect 
information during  this call, Halifax paid Mr P a further £25, bringing  the total amount of 
compensation paid to £75 and £8 for calls. 
Ref: DRN09551502Mr P in his communication with Halifax and this service has let us know  about  his medical 
conditions. Because  of this situation hes told us this caused him further anxiety and stress 
and impacted his health. 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  In his assessment our investigator recommended  
Halifax pay a further £175 (£250 in total) in compensation to reflect the trouble  and upset 
caused to Mr P. Our investigator felt the error and differing information given to him 
throughout his contact  with Halifax about  the account balance  made  it difficult  for Mr P to 
manage his account  as he normally  would  and contributed to the trouble and upset caused. 
However, our investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Halifax  to compensate  Mr P for 
the additional amounts hed spent on the account or that they needed  to do anything  further  
in relation to the account entering an unarranged overdraft  as no charges  had been  applied 
because of this. 
Halifax disagreed  with our investigators findings.  They say Mr P regularly checked his 
balance by the telephone  banking balance enquiry system and at cash  machines. So they 
think Mr P would have been  aware he had an actual and available balance  and that he may 
have been presented with different information  around his actual and available balance  if he 
was only asking for his balance  in contact with Halifax. They  accepted an error meant  Mr P 
didnt have funds  available when he should have  but say this was rectified  quickly. 
Mr P also disagreed with our investigators recommendation and said he was looking for 
£400 compensation to resolve  the matter. 
Because no agreement has been reached  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, I have to base  my decision on what I thinks more likely  to have happened in light 
of the evidence.
Its not in dispute  that a mistake happened when the pending transactions on 19 March 2019  
were duplicated  on Mr Ps account.  So the issue I need to decide in this decision is what 
should be done by Halifax to put things right taking  into account all of the circumstances.  
I recognise a lot happened  in a short space of time in this particular case  - with there being 
numerous telephone conversations between Mr P and Halifax.  From  what  Ive heard in the 
calls that Ive been able to listen to, I think there  was some  confusion on both sides. This 
was shown when  Mr P was informed  in the telephone call of 22 March 2019 that the 
transactions had again duplicated  in error. When in fact the transactions  pending were  new 
spending Mr P had made on the account.  
Due to the information Mr P received  during the calls, I can understand how he may have 
got confused as to how much money  he had available. This is because,  while the agent in 
the very first call correctly  told Mr P how much he had available  to spend  in other  calls he 
seems to have been told the account  balance not taking into account what  was pending and 
due to come  out. 
Halifax has provided this service with information  that shows  Mr P was regularly checking his 
balance via the telephone  banking system  and at cash machines. Because  of this, Halifax 
Ref: DRN09551503feels Mr P must have been  aware  of his available balance. However, Im persuaded from the 
differing information  Mr P would have been receiving about his balance, that its not 
unreasonable that he found it difficult to keep a track  of how much  money  was in his 
account. I also think the fact Mr P was asking the same question  many times shows that he 
was particularly anxious to make sure he knew what the correct balance  was. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Ive seen and been  told, and while I also think Mr P 
has to take some responsibility for some  of the confusion that occurred  in not allowing 
some of the agents  he spoke with to provide him with information,  I do recognise, given his 
health conditions,  where his frustrations  and anxiety arose from.  
Having reviewed Mr Ps account statements from before the error happened and afterwards, 
it appears this was an unsettling time for him  with the timing of the pending transactions  
being duplicated coinciding with a time when Mr P was having  to manage his money  
carefully and why his balance  was particularly important to him at this time. 
I think its clear  that the account balance was important to Mr P from the frequency  of the 
calls and, the fact that during one of these call he told the agent about his medical condition 
and him being  anxious. Which again  is highlighted  from the information Halifax has given to 
us showing Mr P frequently  checked his balance.  I also think  the error  with the duplicated 
pending transactions may have had a completely different effect  on another  person. But 
given it appears Mr P circumstances had recently  changed, and keeping in mind his medical  
conditions, I consider the error to have  had a bigger impact on him.  
I am pleased  to see Halifax considered the impact  the error  had on Mr P at the time, but Im 
in agreement with our investigator  that an increase in the award offered is fair and 
reasonable in this particular case for the reasons Ive explained  above.  
Im also aware Mr Ps account entered into an unauthorised overdraft due to the events  that 
occurred. But having reviewed Mr Ps statements, I can see he didnt actually incur any 
charges in relation to this. And for the same  reasons  as our investigator explained, I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask Halifax to compensate  Mr P for the additional amounts hed spent 
on the account, which were genuine spending and not duplicated  transactions. I can also 
see from the account statements that around  three weeks later a payment was received into 
the account taking it back  into credit. 
Mr Ps told us due to the error he was left without any money,  which resulted in his card 
being rejected  while  shopping.  Hes also said he was unable to pay for gas and electricity for 
a period of time and that he had to use a food bank. I can appreciate  this must  have been a 
difficult time for Mr P and I can also understand that due to his medical conditions he may 
have experienced further anxiety and distress. 
Mr P has said he wants £400 compensation to resolve this matter. Hes told us he is looking 
for nothing  less than £100 per month for what hes lost out. During the call with our 
investigator where Mr P spoke specifically about this, he referred  to the matter  having been 
going on since March  and that at the time of this call; it was nearly four and a half months. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  But I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect 
the actual loss, trouble and upset caused to the consumer by something  a financial business 
did wrong. We are not here to punish  financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation 
as a means of punishing a business for a consumer  bringing their complaint to this service.  
Ref: DRN09551504I accept Mr P was without money  for a period  of time when he shouldnt  have been. But this 
was put right on 21 March  2019 when the duplicated  pending  transactions were released. 
And whilst the further contact clearly caused some  confusion, I cant  see that Mr P lost out 
financially because of this. As Ive mentioned  above,  I dont  think  it right to ask Halifax to 
compensate Mr P for the additional genuine transactions he made on his account.  That said, 
the situation did cause inconvenience  and was stressful for him. So whilst  it isnt possible to 
give someone back their time or take away upset caused, I consider an award of £250 in 
total  so a further award of £175, to fairly reflect the trouble and upset Mr P has 
experienced in these  particular circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc should  pay Mr P a further £175 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019. 
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0955150