K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc refused to pay for a stolen car 
under their agricultural vehicle insurance  policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs B had a car, a trailer  and a quad bike stolen from their home.  AXA paid 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the trailer  and quad  bike but said the car wasnt covered. Thats  
because Mr B said hed kept a key in the lining of the drivers seat and left the rear door 
unlocked. AXA said the policy  has an exclusion which  means it doesnt cover  thefts  where 
the car is unattended and a key has been left in the car.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  think this term should  apply to them. They said the car was parked in a 
barn where  the roll door was chained and bolted and couldnt be opened from the outside. 
They said access to the barn was only possible through a side door in the adjacent  barn that 
was usually locked.  They said Mr B had parked large farm vehicles in front of the car as 
additional security. They  also said there was a heavy dog cage between the rear and front 
seats and didnt think it was likely the thieves  would have found the key hidden  in the seat. 
AXA asked an investigator to look into the circumstances  of the theft. The investigator said 
there wasnt any evidence  to say the thieves found the key and the circumstances would 
suggest this was a planned burglary. She said it would be relatively easy  to break  into the 
car and the farm vehicles  placed around it could have been easily hot-wired. She said the 
roll door to the barn was kept chained and bolted.
AXA maintained that it had acted  reasonably  by turning down Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said 
Mr and Mrs B couldnt definitely say the side door to the barn had been locked. And as 
theyd left the key in the car while it was unattended the exclusion applied. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt think that was fair and brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the exclusion it had 
because she didnt  think it was most  likely the car had been stolen with the key. She 
recommended that AXA pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim for their car, adding  8% simple interest. 
AXA didnt agree. It said Mr and Mrs Bs car was left unattended with a key in it. AXA said 
its the role of our service to take account  of relevant law and regulation and that where we 
dont apply legal principles were required to explain our reasons. It said the term was clear  
and unambiguous and it was fully entitled to turn down the claim under  the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
AXA said it didnt agree that the car would have been stolen even if the key wasnt  left in the 
car. It said in any event that wasnt the appropriate test to apply. AXA said this term wasnt  
unreasonable or over-onerous  and is commonly seen  within  insurance policies. It asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Ref: DRN09552382The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Bs policy say AXA wont pay a claim where the car 
is unattended and the ignition keys are left in or on it. Theres  no dispute  that Mr and Mrs B 
had left a key in the lining of the car seat, so I accept AXAs point that under  the strictly 
applied terms of the policy the exclusion applies and their claim isnt covered.  I also accept 
that this is a term included in most policies we see and it isnt ambiguous or over-onerous. 
However, my role is to also consider  whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. And 
Ive set out my reasoning for what I think a fair and reasonable outcome  to this individual  
complaint is below. 
Industry guidelines (ICOBS) say insurers shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. They  say it 
would be unreasonable to reject  a claim for a breach of condition or warranty  unless the 
circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. While the term in the policy is an 
exclusion, rather than a warranty or condition I think its fair and reasonable to consider how 
its applied in the same way. Thats  because  I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable for an 
insurer to reject a claim where  someone  left a key in a vehicle, but this had no bearing on 
the loss. 
I think the point  of this exclusion is to make  sure AXA doesnt  pay claims where the key 
being left in the car made the theft possible or easier. If it made no difference,  then theres  
no connection with the loss and I think its fair to apply  the same  principle as with the breach 
of a condition  or warranty. And in this case, Im not persuaded  its most likely that the key 
being in the car made any difference  at all. And Ive set out my reasons for thinking this 
below. 
Mr and Mrs B locked  their car in a barn with a roll door that could only be opened from the 
inside. While I accept Mr and Mrs B cant confirm the side door to the barn was definitely  
locked I can see from photos that it would be possible  to climb over the roll door at the front. 
So Im not persuaded that whether the side door was locked or not made any material  
difference. Mr and Mrs B said they parked heavy agricultural vehicles around the car and 
there was a heavy  dog guard between  the front and rear seats. 
AXAs investigator said there wasnt any evidence of the thieves  having  used the key. She 
also said it appeared to be a planned theft and the car would  have been  easy to steal. Ive 
seen a photo of where Mr and Mrs B kept the key. It was in a slit in the side of the seat and 
Mr B had to remove the seat to show where  it was kept. 
AXA said thieves were  likely to have  had tools to get through the dog guard. And it also said 
the thieves would have been  able to use any key to move the heavy agricultural vehicles 
around it. That makes me think its most likely the thieves went prepared  with equipment and 
didnt need the key to steal the car. Its likely the thieves would also have needed equipment 
to unchain the roll door to remove the car. Also, the fact that a quad bike - which needed to 
be started by a key - was also stolen without the key supports my view that the thieves didnt 
need the vehicles keys to take them. 
As Im not persuaded its most likely the car was stolen with the key, I dont think it would 
produce a fair and reasonable  outcome to this complaint if I allowed AXA to apply the 
exclusion about the key being  left in the car. AXA hasnt raised  any other exclusion it intends 
to rely on to turn down the claim.  So, I think a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint 
is for AXA to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim for their car in line with any limits or excesses on the 
policy. Due to the time theyve been  without the money AXA should  add interest  at 8% 
simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it makes  payment.  
Ref: DRN09552383my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay   
Mr and Mrs Bs claim for their car, subject to any limits  or excesses adding interest at 8% 
simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it makes  payment.1
AXA should  do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr and Mrs B have accepted my final 
decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0955238