K820x#14complaint
Ms E has complained about  AXA Insurance UK PLCs decision to cancel her car insurance 
policy as if it didnt exist and reject a claim she made  for repairs  to her car.
background
Ms E is a driving instructor. She bought a car insurance policy  through an online comparison  
website in August  2018. In September 2018  a student was involved in an incident with 
another vehicle  while  driving  Ms Es car. Ms E made a claim to her insurer, AXA. 
Ms E asked for a dual controlled courtesy car. This was when AXA discovered  that Ms Es 
car was a dual controlled car and had therefore  been modified. It said if it had known this, 
AXA wouldnt have offered Ms E a policy. Ms E was the only person listed  as insured to 
drive her car under  the Certificate of Insurance. So AXA said it didnt provide cover for 
another person to drive  and the incident therefore  wasnt covered. AXA said Ms E didnt 
select the option of business use when she applied for the policy through  the comparison 
website. If she had, AXAs personal car insurance  policy wouldnt have come up. It said 
Ms E should have  applied for a commercial insurance policy. So AXA didnt deal with her 
claim for repairs.  It cancelled Ms Es policy as if it didnt exist for misrepresentation. 
Ms E complained to AXA, but it said its decision  was correct.  However,  it said it took too long 
to tell Ms E of its decision. For the delay it caused, it paid Ms E £50 compensation.
Ms E asked us to look at her complaint. She believes  she spoke to AXA before she bought  
the policy and said she was a driving  instructor.  
Our investigator initially thought AXA had fairly declined  the claim.  Ms E wasnt  able to 
provide any proof of calls between her and AXA. AXA didnt  have a record of a call with 
Ms E at the time. But the investigator didnt  think AXA had shown it had fairly  voided Ms Es 
policy. 
In June 2019 AXA provided  underwriting  evidence to show  it correctly voided  Ms Es policy  
because her car had modifications which she didnt tell it about.  It said it didnt void her 
policy because of her occupation  as a driving instructor. When  it voided Ms Es policy it said 
this was due to the vehicle being  used for driving  instruction.
Our investigator issued  a second view. As AXA had shown its decision to void 
Ms Es policy was fair; the investigator didnt recommend any of Ms Es complaint should be 
upheld.
Ms E didnt agree. She strongly believes she spoke to AXA and told it she was a driving 
instructor when she bought the policy. She said she had specifically searched  for specialist 
car insurance at the time.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN04966392Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy  was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately,  recklessly or carelessly. AXA said that Ms E 
carelessly misrepresented the facts in order to buy his policy.  AXA has placed reliance on 
the terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 and I have 
taken account  of the Act.
AXAs notes  show that when Ms E queried the courtesy car shed receive while her car was 
being repaired, AXA discovered  Ms Es car was a dual controlled car. It said that if it had 
known this, it wouldnt have offered  Ms E a policy as her car had been modified. So it wasnt  
Ms Es occupation that led to the voidance. 
AXA has provided underwriting  proof  that it wouldnt have offered Ms E a policy if it knew  her 
car had modifications.  The policy schedule highlights that Ms E said there were no 
modifications to her car. AXA provided a further description underneath  which  said:
Any modification which  changes the makers standard specification including 
cosmetic changes or manufacturer s options.
The schedule also highlighted that only Ms E was insured to drive  her car. So I think AXAs 
decision to reject her claim because somebody  else was driving  was a reasonable one to 
make.
Ms E said she spoke to AXA on the day she bought her car insurance policy and told it her 
occupation and what she used the car for. She said this is what she searched  for when 
looking for quotes. But AXA says it has no record of speaking with Ms E when she bought 
the policy. 
Our investigator explained to Ms E that its possible she spoke to a third party  around  the 
time she bought  the policy  as she applied for it through an online comparison website. But 
as theres nothing to show she spoke to AXA, I cant conclude  that AXA did anything  wrong.  
It relied on the information Ms E submitted  online when she answered the questions and 
provided insurance on that basis. AXA did not provide advice as to the suitability of the 
policy. And it sent Ms E her policy documents  for her to check. So if anything  wasnt  correct,  
Ms E had a further opportunity to contact AXA to clarify or change anything  then. 
I understand Ms E feels AXA has been unfair to her. She said that because  of the voidance 
recorded against her, its been  very difficult to buy insurance elsewhere. 
But I cant say that AXA has treated  Ms E unfairly. I think its applied  the terms of the policy  
correctly as it would for any other customer in the same circumstances. I realise Ms E will be 
disappointed. But I think AXAs decision to void her policy and reject the claim for repairs  
was reasonable  and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN04966393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0496639