K821x#15complaint
Ms F says Santander UK plc (Santander)  mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2009.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Fs case. Ive decided  to uphold Ms Fs complaint for the reasons below.
Ms F applied for PPI over the internet and Santander have sent us example internet  screen  
shots that it says are reflective of what Ms F would  have seen and completed when applying 
for the PPI.
Santander had to give Ms F clear enough  information about the policy  so she could decide if 
she wanted to take it out. As it seems  Ms F completed this application without anyone from
Santander present,  the information contained  in the internet screen shots  is likely to have 
been the only information she wouldve had.
Having considered the screen shots,  I dont think Ms F was given good enough information 
about the cost of this policy.
Santander has said that the cost of the PPI couldnt  be provided when Ms F chose  to take 
PPI, as it was only calculated once the loan had been approved  and the interest rate 
decided. Ive thought about  what Santander has said about Ms F being able to access an 
online calculator,  which it says would have given  an estimate of what the loan repayment  
with and without  PPI would have been.  However  it has also said that Ms F would not have 
had to use this calculator  as it wasnt a mandatory  part of the process. Santander has said 
the figures provided by the calculator would only be estimates of what  her repayments would 
be and not an exact figure. So I cant safely say that Ms F wouldve been  aware  of how 
much shed be paying for the PPI when  she chose to take it out.
Santander has also said that Ms F would have been  sent a welcome pack which included a 
letter giving more  details  of the PPI, including information on the cost. It hasnt sent us a 
copy of the actual letter sent to Ms F, but its provided an example of what it says it wouldve 
looked like. But even if Ms F did receive and read a letter  like this, she wouldnt  have seen it 
until after shed agreed to take out the PPI.
I dont think, based on what Ive seen,  and been  told, that Ms F was given clear information 
about the cost of the policy before she agreed to take it out. And she shouldve been. 
If Ms F had been given  good enough  information about the cost of the policy,  I dont think  
shed have taken  it out. I say this because the cost of Ms Fs PPI was £25.23 per month for 
Ref: DRN00744122£113.81 of cover. When Ive considered this alongside what  Ms F has told us about her 
circumstances, I dont  think  shed  have thought this policy was good value for money for her 
 if shed been aware of the cost before  she agreed  to take it out.
Therefore, I think Ms F has lost out because  of what Santander did wrong. Ive taken into 
account Santanders comments, including  its response to our adjudicators assessment, but I 
still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
Santander should put Ms F in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Ms F the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
If Santander has already repaid any commission amount  to Ms F that related to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by Santander  from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Fs complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0074412