K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about ICF financial Services Limiteds advice to transfer his occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  into a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). Mr L considers 
that the advice  was unsuitable and the ongoing fees he faced werent explained.
background
In early 2017, Mr L sought advice from ICF about his pension. At that time, he was an active 
member of his workplaces OPS. Hed been member for 39 years out of a maximum of 
40 years.  
During Mr Ls first meeting with ICF, they recorded details about his circumstances in a fact 
find questionnaire. The questionnaire confirmed  that;
Mr L was 58 years old.
He was married with two adult  children.
He had an annual  income of around  £63,000  and £30,000 in savings.
He had a very small mortgage on his £160,000 home.
Hed owned stocks  and shares in the past but wasnt knowledgeable about 
investments.
His OPS benefits were estimated to provide an annual pension  of around £21,000 
and a tax-free lump  sum of around £60,000. 
Mr L also completed an investment selection  tool with ICF which was designed to identify the 
level of investment risk he was comfortable with. This recorded  that Mr L had an average 
level of understanding of investments, a moderate  capacity for loss and a balanced attitude 
to investment risk.
Mr L signed a client agreement document during the meeting which  recorded  ICFs fee as a 
fixed fee of £15,000 and an ongoing  advice fee of 0.5% per year.  
Following the initial  meeting,  ICF produced a financial planning report. The report  recorded 
Mr Ls objectives for his pension and ICFs recommendation. In conclusion  ICF said;
I am recommending the above for the following  reasons:
 You will be able to take a variable  income  from your pension
 On your death any unused pension  funds can be passed to [your wife] and your two 
children who will then be able to take an income or a lump  sum from it
 You will be able to have control  over your pension and how it is invested
 You would be entitled to take 25% of your fund value tax free which is greater  
amount than that available under the scheme  benefits
Mr L came  out of his OPS  to become a deferred member  following ICFs  recommendation. 
He was provided with a transfer valuation of £868,374.66 which  was guaranteed for three 
months. ICF then produced a second  financial planning report in June 2017 which focused 
on which SIPP provider Mr L should transfer  his pension to and the underlying funds his 
pension should  be invested into. 
Mr L says, acting on ICFs recommendation, he transferred his OPS  benefits into the SIPP 
and ICFs recommended funds.
Ref: DRN07745922In early 2019 Mr L complained to ICF via a professional representative as he said he wasnt 
given sufficient information about  the ongoing costs  of the SIPP and their effects on the 
investment growth.  He also said he should have been advised to remain a member of the 
OPS on the basis  that he remained  employed  by the same firm.  
In their response, ICF said the initial and ongoing  charges  had been  discussed with Mr L 
during the initial  meeting and were  included in the financial planning report. However, ICF 
noted that there was some confusion over the initial advice charge. When  Mr L transferred 
his funds, he paid 2% of the transfer value  (£17,367.49) to ICF. But ICF had originally 
quoted a fixed fee of £15,000.  So, ICF offered  to repay the difference  in fees plus 8% 
interest. ICF also said they had reviewed the advice  they had given Mr L to transfer  his 
pension and thought their advice was suitable.
Mr L wasnt happy with ICFs response and so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
said the critical yield (the average annual returns his new pension  would need to achieve  in 
order to match the benefits of his OPS)  required to match the benefits of the OPS  was too 
high and so it was unlikely Mr L could replicate the benefits he was giving up. He also said 
Mr L didnt require a large tax-free  lump sum and highlighted the guaranteed death benefits  
Mr L had given up by transferring.  Overall, our investigator didnt think  ICFs advice to 
transfer Mr Ls benefits was suitable.  So, he thought  ICF should put Mr L back into the 
position he would have been in had he remained in his OPS.
ICF disagreed with our investigator. They said our investigator had focused too much on the 
critical yield. They said the critical yield had little relevance in this case as Mr L didnt want to 
replicate his OPS  benefits. ICF set out, in detail,  how their advice met Mr Ls objectives and 
was therefore  suitable. ICF also supplied a video recording of Mr Ls initial meeting with 
them. 
Our investigator responded to ICFs further  points  but their opinion  that the advice was 
unsuitable didnt  change.  And as ICF still disagree,  the complaint has been passed onto me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What were ICFs responsibilities?
The industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), issued guidance for transfers  
in circumstances  like this one in the Conduct of business sourcebook  (COBS) found  in the 
FCA handbook.  It said;
When advising a retail  client  who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme  or other  scheme with safeguarded 
benefits  whether  to transfer, convert  or opt-out, a firm should  start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion  or opt-out  will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer, conversion  or opt-out  to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, conversion  or opt-out is in the client's  best 
interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
Ref: DRN07745923COBS went on to say that ICF had to consider Mr Ls attitude to risk, where relevant, 
in relation to the rate of investment growth  that would have to be achieved to replicate  the 
benefits given  up. ICF also had to clearly inform  Mr L of the benefits  he was giving up. 
And show;
The extent to which benefits may fall short of replicating those in the OPS.
The uncertainty of the level of benefit that can be obtained from the purchase of a 
future annuity and the prior investment  risk to which  Mr L would be exposed to until 
the annuity was purchased. 
The potential lack of availability of annuity  types to replicate  the benefits  given  up. 
(COBS 19.1.7)  
COBS also gave guidance that ICFs  suitability report should include a summary of the 
advantages and disadvantages  of its recommendation  as well as an analysis of the financial 
implications. When doing so, ICF couldnt regard a rate of return that could replicate the 
OPS benefits being  given  up as sufficient in itself. 
At the time of his first meeting with ICF, Mr L was still an active  member  of his OPS.  
And whilst ICF produced  several suitability reports for Mr L, it was the first report  dated 
17 January 2017  in which ICF first made a recommendation  for him to come out of his OPS 
and transfer his benefits. So, Ive focused  on that suitability  report when considering if ICF 
have given suitable advice when making  a recommendation to transfer OPS benefits.  
Was ICFs advice  suitable?
There can be several reasons why transferring  deferred OPS benefits  into a SIPP  can be 
suitable. But it was for ICF start form a position of the transfer being unsuitable and then 
demonstrate using evidence of Mr Ls circumstances at the time, to show  that the transfer 
met his objectives and was in his best interests.  
ICFs initial report  recommended  the transfer was suitable based on several objectives they 
say Mr L had. So, Ive considered each  of the objectives noted in the suitability report to see 
if ICF evidenced that they made  the transfer suitable. 
You would be entitled  to take 25% of your fund value  tax free which  is greater amount than 
that available under the scheme  benefits.
In his initial meeting  with ICF, Mr L didnt appear  to have any plans to spend his tax-free 
cash on any specific purchases. But Mr L said that he didnt know what  the future may hold, 
and he didnt know when  some emergency  cash may be required. 
ICF didnt probe Mr L as to the level of emergency  fund he felt he needed.  So, whilst Mr L 
would have access to a larger lump sum by transferring, ICF didnt demonstrate whether this 
objective could  be met by the OPS. Mr L had around  £30,000 in savings  and the OPS would 
have provided  a further £60,000 tax free cash which Mr L had no plans for. So, I think  Mr L 
would have had cash reserves  to draw upon  in case of an emergency  without the need  to 
transfer his guaranteed benefits.  ICF didnt explore whether this figure was sufficient or 
evidence that it was in Mr Ls best interest  to have a larger  emergency  fund than the OPS  
provided. 
You will be able to have  control over your pension and how it is invested
Ref: DRN07745924ICF pointed out in Mr Ls initial meeting that in the OPS, the trustees chose  where the funds 
were invested. But ICF also said that where  the trustees decided to invest the funds was 
unlikely to affect Mr L, as he had a guaranteed income from his OPS regardless of how the 
investments performed. Mr L had also recorded in the investment selection tool that he didnt 
have any religious or ethical considerations that would affect how he chose his investments. 
So, I dont think Mr L was concerned about how the trustees of his OPS had invested the 
funds.
Mr L said he had some previous experience in investing in stocks and shares. However, I 
havent seen any evidence that leads  me to believe  Mr L had an interested in how his funds 
were invested. Mr L wasnt a sophisticated  investor and I think its unlikely he was going to 
actively manage his funds himself. He would have to rely on ICF to do that  and pay them  
an ongoing charge for doing so. Therefore,  whilst ICF recorded one of Mr Ls objectives as 
being able to have control over his investments, I havent seen sufficient evidence that it was 
in fact a key objective for him. So, I dont think ICF could say its advice was suitable  based 
on this objective.  
You will be able to take a variable income from your pension
In the initial  meeting Mr L was unsure what his income requirements would be in retirement.  
He thought he might require  an income of between  £2,000 and £2,500 a month. But he also 
said he and Mrs L needed to have a discussion before  they could give an accurate figure. 
Mrs L thought they could  live off a lower income. The TVAS report  indicated Mr L was likely  
to receive an annual pension of about £21,500 if he retired at age 60. He was also entitled to 
a lump sum of around £60,000  which  Mr L had no plans for in the short term. So, he could 
have supplemented his fixed income  from the OPS  with his tax free cash to achieve  an 
income of £24,000  if needed until he received  his state pension.  
Mr L was in good health and so he was expected to require an income from his pension for 
many years to come. By transferring Mr L could  have  reduced his income once he was in 
receipt of his state pension and paid less income  tax. But I dont think the lower  tax 
payments would have  been more attractive than receiving a higher income in the future.  
So, whilst transferring  his benefits to the SIPP would allow  Mr L to achieve this objective   
as he could draw down whatever income he liked. I dont think ICF have demonstrated how,  
using contemporary  evidence, this objective would be in Mr Ls best interest.  Mr L seemed 
content with a steady income which his OPS would have  provided. ICF also failed to analyse  
the impact of drawing  down a larger income to start with would have  on the overall  value of 
the fund over time and therefore  the income  available for Mr L in later life. It was key that 
Mr L was aware how taking a varied  income  would  affect the longevity of his fund. But ICF 
didnt produce  any models to show, for example, how long the funds would  last if Mr L drew 
down an income  of £2,500 a month to start with. 
On your death any unused pension funds  can be passed to [your  wife] and your two children 
who will then be able to take an income or a lump sum from it
During the initial meeting Mr L spoke about his pension needing to provide for both himself  
and his wife, as she didnt have a private  pension of her own.  So, I can appreciate why it 
was important for Mr L to ensure his wife was looked after financially in the event of his 
death. But the OPS already had its own valuable benefits for Mrs L. It would provide her with 
a guaranteed income for the rest of her life. ICF didnt explore with Mrs L what her income  
Ref: DRN07745925requirement would be if Mr L passed, and whether the spouses pension of the OPS  was 
enough to cover her needs. 
Mr L also had children  that he wished to provide for. However, Mr Ls children were adults 
and not financially dependent on him. So, whilst it may have been nice to leave any unused  
funds for them, I dont consider that more  important than providing  and income  for 
Mr and Mrs L in retirement.  It was part of ICFs  role to consider whether  Mr Ls objectives 
were realistic, achievable and in his best interests.  
Mr L was in good health and ICF conducted  research  into his life expectancy. This recorded 
that Mr L had a 50% chance of surviving beyond the age of 93 and a 25% chance hed live 
to 99. So, although the death benefits  may have been greater on day one of the transfer, 
ICFs research showed it was likely that Mr L would drawdown income for many  years to 
come. ICF appeared  to put a disproportionate amount of emphasis on Mrs L receiving a 
large lump sum of money if Mr L was to pass soon after the transfer.  When  in reality,  it was 
likely Mr L would have drawn  down a significant proportion  of the funds before any death 
benefits would be paid. 
Mr L was in good health and so, there may have been other  options  available to him to 
provide for his family  in the event of his death, for example through  a life assurance policy 
which may not have  been prohibitively expensive. But ICF didnt explain  this to Mr L or 
explore exactly what level of funds Mr L felt his children needed and how that could be 
achieved. 
ICF say that Mr L wasnt looking to match the financial benefits of his OPS. But I think its 
reasonable to regard  the level of income  the pension could provide as being a key objective 
for Mr L. I say that because Mr L had no other assets or investments that could have 
provided him with an income in retirement to live off. This pension  was Mr (and Mrs) Ls sole 
income provision in retirement   except for state pension when they were eligible. So, I think  
it was important for ICF to demonstrate how transferring would compare to the guaranteed 
income Mr L was giving up and show that the objective of providing a suitable income in 
retirement for Mr L could  be met. 
One way in which firms  could compare the benefits  was with a Transfer  Value Analysis 
(TVAS) which provided customers  with the critical yield. ICF argue that the TVAS  report  can 
be difficult for customers to understand and the critical  yield has less relevance for those 
closer to retirement like Mr L. So, ICF said they also produced illustrations which showed 
how long funds would last if they were  drawn  down  at a rate comparable to the OPS 
benefits. 
I appreciate ICFs view and I think its fundamental to the advice process that a customer 
understands what their benefits might look like in their new plan compared to their OPS. 
In their first report ICF said;  
Further information concerning the recommended  transfer can be found in the 
Appendix of this report and the Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report.
The report  should  be read in conjunction  with the relevant illustrations.
Ref: DRN07745926When asked if the TVAS report or illustrations were sent to Mr L along  with their first report, 
ICF said they werent and the reference  to illustrations and TVAS should have been  taken  
out of the first report. ICF went  on to say;
The second  report  was when we could be specific so TVAS  and illustration  produced 
then, it is only after seeing all of this info and weighing it up that the client  actually 
makes the pension transfer, no monies  are transferred after the initial report.
ICF produced three  Prudential retirement modellers in April 2017  and the TVAS  report in 
August 2017.  But ICF had already given a very clear recommendation for Mr L to transfer his 
benefits in January 2017. And by the time ICF produced  their second report, Mr L had 
already come out of his OPS.  
ICF noted  in bold in their first report It is important  to understand that once you have left the 
scheme you are unable to re-join the scheme.  So, I think  ICF knew their first report would 
start an irreversible process and so they needed to make sure their initial recommendation to 
transfer was suitable. I appreciate that the OPS would only provide a guaranteed transfer 
value once Mr L was a deferred member  but ICF could  have  given him comparisons based 
on the non-guaranteed transfer value that they based the rest of their suitability report  on. 
In their initial recommendation ICF failed to provide Mr L with any information  about the 
extent to which a SIPP may fall short  of the benefits he was giving up in his OPS.  And they 
didnt conduct  any analysis of the financial impact the transfer would  have on Mr L until after 
hed made  his decision to transfer. ICF argue that no monies had been transferred after the 
second report, but I think Mr L would have trusted  ICF to highlight any concerns if they had 
any following the illustrations. Instead,  ICF continued with further  recommendations in their 
second suitability  report which  focused  on the SIPP  provider and underlying funds they 
recommended for Mr L to invest  in.
In one of the illustrations  ICF did produce, it showed if Mr L took comparable benefits  to the 
OPS then his funds could last until he was aged  94. But the illustrations used an expected  
growth rate of 4.25%.  At the time the regulators growth  rates were 2% for low growth, 5% for 
mid growth  and 8% for high growth. Mr L was recorded  as having a balanced  attitude  to risk 
but ICF recommended  he invest over £240,000 in cash-based deposits and a high 
proportion of the rest of his funds were  invested in funds described as conservative or low 
risk. So, I think  it was unlikely Mr L would achieve  consistent returns  of 4.25%  and by 
transferring he was subject to investment  risk which may have led to a situation where he 
had to reduce  his income, or his funds could run out before he died. Mr L had been clear  
with ICF that he didnt  want his funds to run out.
In summary  I think Mr L could have achieved  his income needs  through his OPS  benefits 
where he had a guaranteed and secure  income for the rest of his life. It also provided his 
wife with a guaranteed income should  he pass away which was especially important as she 
had no private pension of her own. Mr L could have also achieved his objectives of providing  
for his children in the event of his death  by purchasing  a life assurance policy if he 
considered it necessary.
Whilst Mr L would have  had more flexibility by transferring, I dont think he was likely to 
improve on the income available to him and he was subject to investment  risk where he 
risked his income reducing  or even  his funds running out. So, I dont think  it was in his best 
interest to do so. Mr L could have  remained  in the scheme and accrued  an additional year of 
benefit to the maximum of 40 years.   
Ref: DRN07745927For all of the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think ICF gave Mr L suitable advice to transfer 
his OPS. I think, had ICF explained all of this to Mr L, he would have  decided  to stay in his 
OPS. I therefore hold ICF responsible for any losses Mr L incurred as a result of their 
unsatisfactory advice.   
putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. ICF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the regulators  pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct  
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance  of the decision.
ICF may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain  Mr Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ls pension plan.  The payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date 
ICF receives notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes ICF to 
pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Ref: DRN07745928Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require  ICF to pay Mr L the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require ICF to 
pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require ICF to pay Mr L 
any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000. I also recommend that 
ICF pays  Mr L the balance. I additionally  recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts  my decision, the money  award is binding  on ICF. My recommendation is not 
binding on ICF. Further, its unlikely  that Mr L can accept my decision and go to court  to ask 
for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding  
whether to accept  this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct ICF Financial Services  Limited to 
compensate Mr L as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2021.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0774592