K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Platform-branded mortgage Mrs and Mr A hold with 
The Co-operative Bank Plc. Theyre unhappy with how theyve been treated by Platform in 
the wake of legal action for possession of their home after the intended  end date of the 
mortgage passed without it being  repaid.
background
Briefly, Platform obtained a possession order for arrears  in 2017. Mrs and Mr A brought a 
complaint to us about Platforms attempts to enforce  the order. The complaint was looked at 
by one of our investigators, who recommended an informal settlement in which Platform  paid 
Mrs and Mr A £700 and deferred  enforcement  action for six months to allow Mrs and Mr A 
time to try and sell the house.  That was in May 2018, and both parties accepted  the informal  
settlement.
In October  2018, a firm of solicitors acting for Mrs and Mr A contacted Platform  with a claim 
of overcharging  them during the life of the mortgage  and was, as a consequence,  in breach 
of contract. Platform treated the claim as a complaint,  and issued a final response on 
2 November 2018, rejecting the claim and referring Mrs and Mr A to us.
In March 2019, with no sale having  happened, Platform recommenced its action to enforce 
the possession  order. Mrs and Mr A complained afresh, saying that this was unfair.  They 
were also unhappy  that Platform had refused a request from them to change  the due date of 
their monthly mortgage payment, and said that a staff member  had treated  Mr A rudely 
during one of the many  phone conversations that had taken place.
Platform addressed  the new complaint in two final responses in April 2019. Other  than a 
nominal offer of £50 compensation  for how one of the phone  calls had been handled, 
Platform rejected  the complaint and again  referred  Mrs and Mr A to us. They did so, 
contacting us on 22 May 2019.
Our investigator summarised the complaint we received  under three broad headings:
1.the overcharging claim;
2.the decision to resume  action to enforce the possession order;  and
3.the refusal to change  the monthly  payment date.
On parts  two and three  of the complaint, the investigator wasnt  persuaded Platform  had 
done anything  wrong. As for part one of the complaint,  she explained that we couldnt 
consider it as Mrs and Mr A had brought it to us too late.
While the case was with us, Mrs and Mr A raised  a fourth head of complaint, about  the 
amount of litigation fees Platform had added to their mortgage during 2019; they said this 
was in breach  of a court order. The investigator  said theyd need to bring a separate 
complaint about  that after Platform has been able to address it in a final response.
Mrs and Mr A were  unhappy with the investigators conclusions as summarised  above  and 
asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. It came  to me and in April 2020, I 
issued a decision explaining why our power  to consider this complaint was limited to parts  
two and three of this complaint as set out above.
Ref: DRN09915112I gave both parties a month in which to make  any final submissions on the merits of parts  
two and three; that month has now passed   and neither party has said anything more.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mrs and Mr A. On those  elements  of the complaint that I have jurisdiction to 
consider, Platform  has done nothing wrong.
Its a common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders  to provide 
forbearance. What  they actually  require  lenders  to do is consider each set of individual 
circumstances fairly  to decide  if forbearance  should be provided;  the two things arent the 
same. Wed expect a lender to consider offering  help to consumers going through a 
temporary problem, especially in situations  where it can be seen their situation  is likely to 
improve. 
The problem here is that Mrs and Mr As difficulty in repaying their debt has been anything  
but temporary. The pressure to do so must  be immense  for Mrs and Mr A, and Im not 
unsympathetic towards them in that regard. But my impartiality  means  I must  also have 
regard for Platforms point  of view. Thats where  historical context becomes relevant.
The starting point  here is that this mortgage was originally due to be repaid in 2015; this was 
extended by Platform  to 2018,  but in the meantime, a court had granted  Platform  a 
possession order. As a mediated  settlement  to a previous complaint, Platform  agreed to give 
Mrs and Mr A a further six-month window in which  to try and sell the property themselves. 
That further concession  ended in November 2018;  and Platform  waited a further four months  
after that before it commenced action to enforce the possession order.
Viewed in those  terms, its apparent to that Platform has been more  than patient with 
Mrs and Mr A. It wouldnt be right of me to say that it should continue  to be so indefinitely.  
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from Platform in a final decision on 
Mrs and Mr As complaint, regardless of their wider situation.
Changing the due date for the monthly interest  instalment is something that lenders can 
consider doing  to help borrowers  whose  difficulties are largely about cashflow timing.  But in 
Mrs and Mr As case, the problems go far deeper. The most  important  payment  of all, the 
one that clears the mortgage altogether, is some five years  overdue, and changing the date 
in the month  that they pay interest  on it isnt going  to fix that.
Mrs and Mr A dont  have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Platform will be bound by my final decision. Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a 
court might impose, Mrs and Mr As right to take legal action against Platform  over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of it. They 
wouldnt necessarily have  to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. 
In the event Platform resumes possession proceedings, Mrs and Mr A can, if they wish,  ask 
the court to consider all of the arguments  theyve presented here as part of their defence. 
Ref: DRN09915113There would  then be an opportunity for the court to decide whether, in all those  
circumstances, it would  be fair to give possession of the mortgaged property to Platform.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against The Co-operative Bank  Plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0991511