K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the information Rock  Insurance Services  Limited, a broker,  gave to
him about his travel  insurance policy.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
22 October 2019, an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought that Rock  had misled Mr H and what  I 
proposed it should  do to put matters right. I said that Rock should pay Mr H the difference  
between the premium he paid - £137.20   and the quote he got in July 2018 from another  
insurer - £92.84 , with interest. I also said that Rock  should pay Mr H compensation of £50 
in relation to his distress and inconvenience.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr H said that he didnt  have anything further  to add.
Rock said it accepted my provisional decision about what had happened  but said that it 
would like to contend that it should pay the difference between the cost of Mr Hs policy and 
the comparative quotation Mr H obtained in July 2018. I believe Rock  may have meant  to 
say that it would like to contest my proposed  redress as it went  on to say:
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H may have selected the policy with the lowest  
possible cost when  obtaining a comparative  quote.
The two policies differ  in cover, excess and terms so are offered at different costs 
and it isnt fair to ask Rock to pay this difference.
Rock would have  been inclined to pay the difference in cost of the two policies if Mr H 
had been able to locate  the same cover  with the same insurer at a lower  cost, as this 
would have shown  he was getting like-for-like  cover.
It agreed to pay the compensation of £50 but not the difference in cost of the two 
policies.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that its reasonable to assume that Mr H will have selected the policy  with the lowest  
cost for the cover he wanted  when he obtained  a comparative quote. That makes the 
amount Im asking Rock  to pay less, rather than more. 
In looking at compensation,  Im endeavouring to put Mr H in the position he would have  been  
in if Rock hadnt made an error. I think that if Rock had given Mr H complete information  
about medical screening on 27 June 2018,  he would have completed medical screening 
either that day or shortly afterwards. He would have subsequently cancelled the policy  in the 
cooling-off period  and taken out cheaper cover with another insurer.  
Ref: DRN00492642Fortunately, Mr H did get a quote for alternative cover, so we can see what  he would have 
paid with another insurer. Due to the timeline  of events here, when  he did so, the cooling-off 
period for the policy Rock arranged had passed.  So, Mr H made  the rational choice to pay 
the loading of £77.87,  rather  than lose the £59.33 he had already paid. That cost him less 
than losing the £59.33  hed already paid and the additional £92.84 for the alternative policy.  
The policy Rock arranged and the policy Mr H got a comparative quote for arent exactly the 
same but I dont think that matters here. Thats  because,  its the policy Mr H would have 
taken out if Rock hadnt made a mistake  and its sufficiently similar to the policy Rock 
arrange that it would have  been reasonable for Mr H to do so. 
Mr H wasnt obliged to source  an alternative  quote  with the same insurer.  In any event, I 
dont follow  the logic of Rocks contention that it would  pay the difference  in cost of the two 
policies if Mr H had been able to locate the same cover with the same  insurer at a lower 
cost. In those circumstances, Mr H wouldnt have suffered a loss, so I wouldnt be asking 
Rock to compensate  him for that. 
Considering everything, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional  decision, I 
remain of the view that Rock misled  Mr H and that it caused him loss. I think  that the redress  
I set out in my provisional decision is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I now require 
Rock Insurance  Services Limited to pay Mr H;
1.£44.36 which is the difference between the total premium  he paid to Rock  and 
the cost of alternative  cover;
2.interest on the above at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date Mr H took 
out the policy with Rock, to the date it makes the payment  and;
3.compensation of £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00492643extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains about the information Rock Insurance Services Limited,  a broker, gave to him 
about his travel  insurance policy.
background
On 19 June 2018, Mr H bought a travel insurance policy  online for himself  and his family  in relation 
to a holiday  in August 2018.
On 21 June 2018, Mr H phoned Rock.  He said hed previously disclosed some minor medical 
conditions, including asthma,  but didnt  want cover for them. Rock told him that he could choose 
whether he had cover  for asthma  or not.
On 23 June 2018, Mr H was involved in an accident and broke his arm.
On 27 June 2018, Mr H told Rock about his broken arm and that he was due to have surgery that 
day. Rock asked Mr H to call again after the surgery if he required any follow up surgery or his arm 
was still in plaster when he travelled.
On 18 July 2018, Mr H gave  Rock an update about his arm and it told him that his broken arm 
wouldnt be covered as a waived condition as he had another condition  asthma.  So, hed have to 
complete medical screening. Mr H subsequently did so and on 23 July 2018,  Rock  asked Mr H for 
an additional premium, which he paid.
Mr H says that if Rock had given him complete information when he phoned  on
27 June 2018, he would have cancelled  the policy  in the cooling-off period  and taken  out 
cheaper cover with another insurer.  He wants a refund of the original and additional
premium.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that Rock  was right to say that Mr 
H needed to undergo medical screening and agreed with Mr H that Rock should have told him 
about that during one of the phone calls.  The investigator didnt think that Rocks  omission meant 
the Mr H lost his opportunity to cancel  the policy in the cooling-off period. That was because at the 
time of the phone call, Mr H hadnt yet had the surgery, so Rock wouldnt be in a position to carry 
out medical screening and provide an accurate  quote.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator.  He said that she had missed the crux of the problem. Mr H 
said that the outcome of his surgery was irrelevant. Mr H maintains that he lost the opportunity to 
consider his options  and choose an alternative provider  during the cooling-off period.  There  were 
further exchanges  between  the investigator and Mr H, which I wont set out here.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN00492644Its clear that Mr H has very strong feelings  about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to 
support his complaint, which I have read and considered. However, I trust that he will not take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issues.
Rock didnt  give Mr H advice about the policy, so it was for Mr H to satisfy himself that the policy 
met his needs.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting  point is the terms and conditions of the policy,  which include the following:
You will not be covered under this policy  for any claim arising directly or indirectly from a pre-
existing medical condition  unless it is shown on the waived condition list or it has been declared 
to us and accepted by us in writing for cover. Call us on [] to declare your pre-existing medical 
condition and confirm  cover  is available.
You must inform us if your  state of health changes prior to travelling. We have the right to 
increase your  premiums or refuse to cover you on your trip.
The medical conditions  listed in the Waived Conditions table  are covered  subject to the normal 
terms and conditions  of this insurance, provided the insured person can meet ALL of the following 
criteria:
a)  has NO other  pre-existing medical condition(s)  which is not listed within  the
Waived Conditions table; and
b)  is not awaiting surgery for the condition; and
c)  has been fully discharged from any post-operative follow-up.
IF THE INSURED PERSON  DOES NOT MEET ALL OF THE CRITERIA  SHOWN ABOVE  THEN  A 
FULL AND COMPLETE DECLARAION OF ALL PRE-EXISTING MEDICAL CONDITIONS 
(INCLUDING ANY LISTED BELOW) MUST BE MADE  TO THE MEDCIAL SCREENING 
HELPLINE.
If you have any other pre-existing medical condition  or your medical condition  does not meet  
the above  criteria, you must contact the Medical Screening Helpline on [] to declare ALL your  
medical conditions and ensure that we are able to provide cover.
The Waived Conditions table includes  Broken Bones  (other  than head or spine)  (no longer 
in plaster). It doesnt  include  asthma.
What all that means  here is that as Mr H has asthma  a pre-existing medical condition  not listed in 
the Waived Conditions  table - he had to undergo medical screening  in order to secure  cover for 
his broken arm.
The part of the policy relating to cancellations says:
1. Your Right  to Cancel during the Cooling-Off  Period
You are entitled to cancel this policy  by notifying us in writing, by email or by telephone within  
fourteen (14) days of either:
    the date you receive this policy; or
    the start of your Period of Insurance;
whichever is the later.
Period  of insurance is defined as Cancellation cover for a Single  Trip policy starts when  
you purchase  this insurance or when  you book your trip, whichever is the later...
Ref: DRN00492645did Rock  mislead Mr H?
I think that Rock misled  Mr H and that it caused  him loss. Ill explain  why:
I havent seen what Mr H disclosed in the on-line application  but Ive listened to the 
recording of the phone call Mr H made to Rock on 21 June  2018. Mr H disclosed asthma 
during that call.
Ive also listened to the recording of the phone call on 27 June 2018. Mr H told Rock about 
his broken arm. Rock told Mr H to call again after the surgery if he required any follow up 
surgery or his arm was still in plaster when  he travelled. That was incomplete  information. I 
think Rock  made  an error in failing  to take into account the previously  disclosed asthma and 
in failing  to tell Mr H that hed have to complete medical screening.
When Mr H called  Rock again on 18 July 2018, it told him, correctly,  that hed have to 
complete medical screening. By then, it was too late for Mr H to cancel during the cooling-off 
period.
Rock could have medically screened Mr H on 27 June  2018. If it had done so, it may not 
have offered  cover  for Mr Hs broken arm as his operation was pending. Both parties  may 
have preferred to wait until after the surgery and medical  screening could have  taken place 
shortly after the surgery.
If Mr H had been given complete information about medical screening  on
27 June 2018, I think that he would have completed medical screening either  that day or 
shortly after.  I think that he would have subsequently cancelled the policy in the cooling-off 
period and taken out cheaper cover with another  insurer.
I dont think it would be fair to direct  Rock to refund to Mr H the total premium  he
paid, as hes had the benefit of the policy, albeit  at a higher premium that hed have
liked.
Mr H obtained a comparative quote dated  23 July 2018 from another  insurer after disclosure  
of medical  conditions. That quote  was for £92.84. The total premium Mr H paid Rock was 
£137.20 (£59.33 plus the additional  premium of £77.87).
To put matters right,  I intend to direct Rock  to pay Mr H the difference  between
£137.20 and £92.84. As Mr H has been  kept out of the use of that money, Rock  should  also 
pay interest.
In addition, Mr H has suffered distress and inconvenience. He was trying to ensure he was 
doing things properly in order to secure the cover he wanted. Mr H was no doubt  worried  
about his cover  and alarmed to find out that it would cost him more than he thought,  even 
though hed given Rock all the information it needed.  I think appropriate compensation  in this 
case is £50. In reaching  that view, Ive taken  into account the nature, extent and duration of 
the distress and inconvenience caused  by Rocks  error.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint  and direct  
Rock Insurance  Services Limited to pay Mr H:
1.£44.36 which is the difference  between  the total premium he paid to Rock and the 
cost of alternative  cover;
2.interest on the above at the simple  rate of 8% per year from the date Mr H took out the 
policy with Rock,  to the date it makes the payment and;
3.compensation of £50.
Ref: DRN0049264