K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called 
Evergreen Finance  London Limited, trading at the time as MoneyBoat.co.uk. Mr H says 
MoneyBoat lent to him irresponsibly and this contributed to financial problems.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer mainly to MoneyBoat in this decision.
background
We now know that Mr H took out 5 loans from MoneyBoat between April 2017  and 
December 2017.  Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Hs borrowing  with MoneyBoat, based on 
the information it provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld.  
MoneyBoat didnt agree with the adjudicators  view and asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Hs 
complaint.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought  to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So MoneyBoat  was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether  the repayments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN00947722Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr H 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MoneyBoat told us it carried out certain  checks before agreeing to lend to Mr H, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure  and creditworthiness.  It says that the information  it had, 
showed that Mr H would be able to sustainably  make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. But I dont  agree with this. 
For example, we asked  MoneyBoat to show us details of the actual checks and searches  it 
carried out at the point  of loan 1. From  what it would have been able to see from these, I 
think they clearly showed that Mr H had being  recently borrowing quite heavily elsewhere. 
The information MoneyBoat would have seen also showed that a number of credit  searches 
had recently been  carried  out on his financial history which indicates to me that he was also 
regularly seeking  to borrow, although not always being lent to. 
So, the searches  MoneyBoat carried out at the point  of loan 1 showed he had short-term 
loans outstanding with other providers. Also, more generally, details on the searches about  
other (longer  term)  loans  also appeared to undermine  Mr Hs declared monthly outgoings. In 
short, the information showed that Mr Hs stated outgoings ought to have been  checked and 
verified to make sure they were right.
Ive thought about all this and whether it would have been obvious enough that Mr H was 
having difficulties  in managing his money. And I think  that having significant  amounts of 
outstanding short-term loans  in this case there were 4 such  loans outstanding  would 
have shown that Mr H was having financial trouble. Our experience of short-term lending  
tells us that consumers who have difficulty managing their money are less likely to be able to 
sustainably repay  loans. I therefore  dont I think MoneyBoat ought  to have lent Mr H the 
money for loan 1. I dont think it was responsible to do so.
Loans 2 - 4 in my view only add further  weight  to exactly the same argument in that the 
checks and searches MoneyBoat carried out at the time(s) showed  a marked  increase  in 
Mr Hs active outstanding  loans from the time of loan 1. There were  also further 
inconsistencies in his declared outgoings  directly relating to the debt repayments he was 
amassing. Again therefore, agreeing to these loans  was irresponsible  and harmful to Mr Hs 
financial situation.
In addition to all this, I think an emerging pattern  of repeated lending from the point of loan 5 
was also very clear.  Hed been borrowing  without  any significant break from MoneyBoat  for 
over 7 months and the amount he was given for loan 5 was the highest  yet. It doesnt look 
like MoneyBoat did anything differently  but this pattern should have caused it to see that 
Mr H wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-term cash-flow problems; he was borrowing 
regularly, to address  shortfalls in his income  and to meet  an ongoing need. Mr H was having 
to consistently  take out high interest,  short-term lending over a sustained  period and the 
indebtedness caused by this type of borrowing was also harmful. 
Ref: DRN00947723So Im also upholding  this complaint  in respect  of loan 5 too because:
 
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely  to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans
Ive looked at what MoneyBoat has said about  this which  basically amounts to its systems 
for granting  loans being automated and the length of the lending  relationship  to Mr H being 
short. But having  carried  out searches and checks it did, MoneyBoat  ought  to have actually 
done something about them by acting on the information it saw. It shouldnt  have lent Mr H 
the money for any of these loans and thats why Im upholding his complaint.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr H, MoneyBoat should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 1- 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any negative information  about loans 1  4 from Mr Hs credit file;
the information recorded  about  loan 5 is adverse. So all entries  about  loan 5 should 
be completely removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  and I direct Evergreen  Finance London  Limited to put things right 
for Mr H as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00947724Appendix
LoanDate
TakenDate
Repaid Instalments Amount
1 20/04/2017 31/05/2017 2 £200.00
2 19/06/2017 17/08/2017 3 £200.00
3 23/08/2017 29/09/2017 2 £200.00
4 18/10/2017 30/11/2017 2 £200.00
5 06/12/2017 04/05/2018 4 £400.00
Ref: DRN0094772