K820x#14complaint
Miss E and Mr A complain about the way Calpe Insurance Company Limited has handled  a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. Miss E is a named  driver  on Mr As the policy.  
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. But we can look into whether 
Calpe has conducted a reasonable investigation  into a claim, when making its own 
decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Calpe is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees 
fit. It also doesnt need Miss E or Mr As approval of any decision to admit  liability, 
settle a claim or make a payment to a third party. 
I understand Miss Es frustration. But she accepts she had a slight  altercation with 
the other car and hit its rear. Calpe appointed  a motor engineer and claims 
investigator. The motor engineer  noted some minor  damage to her car that was 
consistent with a collision although  in doing so he noted the damage was not obvious  
and easy to miss. He also said some dismantling  was required to fully evaluate the 
damage and estimated repair costs to her car of £1,000.
Miss E is unhappy that she wasnt given the chance to obtain her own engineers 
report. But this isnt something  the policy requires. And in any event she couldve 
done so if she had wanted  to but at her own expense.
Calpe  subsequently noted  Miss E had hit the rear of the third partys car and it 
considered the engineers conclusions, the vehicles damage and what  each party  
said. Having done so it concluded it didnt  think it could successfully prove in court 
that Miss E wasnt to blame.  And it decided to settle  the other partys claim in full. In 
doing so it also clearly considered the third partys  alleged  losses including  the 
personal injury claim.
Overall I think  Calpe has investigated matters reasonably in this case.  Miss E and Mr 
A may disagree with Calpes interpretation  of the evidence and decision to settle the 
third partys claim  on a full liability basis but I dont think  its failed to comply  with the 
policy terms or exercised its discretion unfairly  or unreasonably when deciding to 
settle the case as its done. 
I also think Calpe has acted fairly when asking Miss E and Mr A to repay £2,000 
towards its outlay as this represents  the all sections policy  excess  of £3,000  less the 
engineers estimated  £1,000 cost of repairs to Miss E and Mr As car.  
Ref: DRN03357112Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise Miss E and Mr As strength of 
feeling and frustration, I think Calpe has acted fairly and in line with the policy  terms 
and conditions. And I dont think I can reasonably require it to do anything  more or 
differently.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0335711