K820x#14complaint
Mr P doesnt  think Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) has paid him fair compensation 
following a complaint about the sale of a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
In 2018, Mr P contacted Nationwide to say it had mis-sold him a PPI policy with a loan in 
1997.
In October  2018, Nationwide  upheld his complaint  and refunded  the amount hed paid for 
PPI (£89.20) with simple  interest (at 8% per year)  to compensate him for being out of pocket. 
In total, it paid him £209.88 (after tax).
Mr P doesnt  think this enough.  First,  he thinks he paid more. Second,  Mr P says he was 
unwell when  he applied  for the loan  and he says he was told to buy PPI because  it would 
pay off his loan if he was off work sick. Mr P says he made approximately 12 payments 
before he became unwell. He says he tried to make a claim but his claim was declined. Mr P 
says that as a result,  he had to sell his home  to repay the loan. And hed like to be 
compensated for the money  hes lost and for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Our adjudicator concluded that Nationwide  had paid Mr P fair compensation.
Mr P disagrees so the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Nationwide has refunded everything  Mr P paid for PPI.
The insurer  told us Mr P paid £22.30  for PPI on 13 July 1997 and £11.15 every month from 
13 August 1997  until 13 January 1998. Mr P hasnt been able to provide  any evidence that 
he paid more. So based on the information available,  I think  Mr P paid £89.20  for PPI.
Mr P says he tried to make a claim and it was declined. Unfortunately,  neither Nationwide 
nor Mr P has any evidence to show he tried to make a claim.  The insurer  has sent us a 
print-out of its internal  records, which shows the following note:
110997 P/h called to see if he was covered  for u/emp He will contact local 
branch for claim form
I assume P/h means policy holder  and u/emp means unemployment.  So it looks like Mr P 
called the insurer  to ask about the possibility of making an unemployment claim in 
September 1997. Unfortunately,  there are no other notes or references to a claim.
Mr P told our adjudicator  that his medical records show he was unwell in or around  the time 
he says he tried to make  a claim.
I dont doubt Mr P was unwell. But based on the very limited  information available, I dont 
think I can safely conclude that Mr P was told the policy would repay  his loan if he was 
Ref: DRN04950312medically retired, or that he tried to make  a claim that was declined.  And, if Mr P made a 
claim and it was declined,  theres  no way for me to know whether  it was fairly or unfairly 
declined  and if it was unfairly declined,  whose fault it was.
As a result, I dont think Nationwide needs to pay Mr P any additional compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Nationwide Building Society has paid Mr P fair 
compensation. So there is nothing more it needs  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0495031