K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way two life assurance policies were sold to them  by a 
representative of Lloyds Bank PLC.  They say they were told the policies  were  compulsory 
but have now found out this wasnt the case.  They are unhappy with the advice they were 
given and believe the policies were mis-sold. 
Background 
Mr and Mrs J took out a new mortgage in the spring  of 2002. At the same time,  they were  
advised to take out a joint life assurance  policy that decreased  in line with the term of their 
repayment mortgage. 
By December 2004, Mr and Mrs J had increased  their borrowing. They met with an advisor  
who recommended  that they take out a new joint life assurance policy to cover all their 
outstanding borrowing they had. The advisor also recommended they cancel the policy  they 
took out in 2002. 
In 2018, Mr and Mrs J made a complaint to Lloyds  and cancelled the 2004 policy. Lloyds 
didnt uphold  the complaint about  the sale of the 2002 policy as it could find no evidence that 
it had been mis-sold. It did partially  uphold the complaint about the 2004 policy. It agreed 
that that the advice given wasnt wholly suitable  as the term set didnt match  Mr and Mrs Js 
additional borrowing. It also thought Mr and Mrs J shouldnt  have  been  advised to cancel 
their existing policy. It offered to refund the additional premiums (plus interest) Mr and Mrs J 
had paid as a result of the unsuitable  advice. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He thought the 2002  policy  was right for 
Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time.  And he didnt think  there was strong enough  
evidence to suggest that they were told either of the policies were compulsory. He thought  
the offer Lloyds  made in relation to the 2004  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and didnt think it needed to do anything more.  
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the adjudicators  findings  and requested that an ombudsman  
review the complaint. In summary,  they made the following additional points:
-They didnt have  a need for life cover as they had other means  of repaying their 
mortgage. They had rental properties  they could have sold all or part off if they had 
no other means to pay their mortgage.
-They were not told the policies were  entirely optional. They didnt feel they could 
reject the advisors recommendations and were told the life assurance was a 
condition of obtaining the mortgage.
-Lloyds used questionable sales techniques  when selling the policies. When the 2002 
policy was sold, they were initially offered an expensive policy but when they turned 
this down a cheaper policy was offered. They believe  this was a technique  to make 
the cheaper policy look more reasonable. They also believe that when commission is 
involved in the selling  of insurance  it leads to mis-selling. 
-Lloyds has admitted mis-selling other insurance policies to them. The sales 
techniques used  by Lloyds for the sale of all the policies  theyve  taken out was the 
same. The fact Lloyds  has admitted to mis-selling practices in other sales  should be 
considered as part of the complaint about these two life assurance policies. 
My findings  
Ref: DRN02963822Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why below.  
Ive firstly  considered Mr and Mrs Js complaint that they were  told the policies were 
compulsory and they wouldnt have taken them out otherwise. Mr and Mrs Js comments are 
evidence I take into account  and Ive considered them carefully.  Ive also looked  at the 
other evidence Lloyds has given me  which it says shows that the policies werent  
compulsory. Having looked at the paperwork completed at the time, I havent seen anything 
that indicates Mr and Mrs J were told either policy was compulsory.  I can see that in 2002 Mr 
and Mrs J turned down the critical illness cover that was recommended at the same time  
suggesting they understood they didnt have to accept everything that was recommended to 
them. This is supported  by information in the recommendation letter that says Mr and Mrs J 
werent obliged  to act on any recommendation made. It also appears that some of the 
additional borrowing  (£34,000 taken out in August 2004) was already in place before the 
advice to take out the 2004  policy  (in December 2004).  This again supports that the policy 
wasnt sold as compulsory to the borrowing being  agreed. Taking into account  all of the 
evidence Ive seen  from both parties, I dont think the policies were  presented  as 
compulsory. It follows  that I find it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J were given a choice 
about both policies.
Ive also considered whether the polices  were suitable for Mr and Mrs Js needs and 
circumstances. They were  sold two life assurance  policies linked to borrowing  they took out. 
The policies were  designed to provide a lump sum to repay their mortgage  should either of 
them die during the term. In 2002,  they were buying a property together  and were  taking the 
policy to cover a new mortgage  theyd arranged.  By December 2004 they had taken on 
further borrowing  and a new policy was recommended to make  sure they had cover for all 
that they owed.  In both situations, protection for a debt, such  as life assurance cover, is an 
appropriate form of financial planning. To make sure there are sums available in the event  of 
one partys death is a reasonable step to take.  So, in the unfortunate case that Mr and Mrs J 
died, their full mortgage would  be repaid. 
In 2002, I think Mr and Mrs J had a need for the protection and an appropriate  amount was 
covered with this policy. The cover  matched  the amount and term of the loan. So, I dont 
think the advice  they were  given was unsuitable  for their situation. Mr and Mrs J have said 
they held assets in the form of properties that they could have sold to help them meet  their 
mortgage repayments should one of them die. This information isnt recorded in the fact find 
but Mr and Mrs J have  provided some evidence  to support that they held other  assets. They 
do acknowledge that the documents theyve provided  dont show they held them  when the 
advice was given  in 2002. However,  even where assets are held, it would still be good  
practice to have specific cover for a debt such as mortgage. Ive note Mr and Mrs Js 
comments about the investment performance of assets held in property. There is uncertainty 
of future performance of all investments. And the liquidation of funds held in property  isnt 
always quick and can have complications.  This means  it isnt straightforward to release  
funds to meet mortgage repayments.  Also having a separate life cover in place allowed for 
assets to be retained  and providing income  at what would likely  be a difficult  time. So, I still 
think Mr and Mrs J had a need for the cover. 
Ive considered the point Mr and Mrs J make about  initially being offered a more expensive 
policy in 2002.  The original policy they were  offered  contained critical illness cover.  This is a 
significant difference to the life cover policy only they actually took out  and is reflected in 
Ref: DRN02963823the monthly cost.  While I can understand why Mr and Mrs J have raised this question, I dont 
think the evidence  supports  that this was a clear technique to mis-sell the policy. From 
reviewing the documentation, it shows the initial policy was offered because a need  was 
identified for critical illness cover. It seems this was turned down due to the cost. Affordability 
is a consideration  when  making a recommendation, so even where  there is a need  for cover,  
if the cost is outside  of a customers budget it could make it unsuitable. It seems  most likely 
to me that this is what happened here. But in any case, as Ive explained above, I still think  
the recommendation to take out a life cover  policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Js 
circumstances at time. 
I note that Lloyds has made an offer in respect of the 2004 policy.  It agrees that the policy it 
recommended wasnt  completely  suitable.  It acknowledged that the new policy  shouldnt  
have been set up with a term that was different to the further borrowing Mr and Mrs J took 
out. It also said Mr and Mrs J shouldnt have  been  advised to cancel the 2002 policy. It has 
offered compensation to cover  the additional  premiums (plus interest) that Mr and Mrs J 
have paid as a result of the unsuitable  advice plus £100 for the inconvenience  caused. Ive 
reviewed the methodology of the offer and I agree that it is fair compensation and 
adequately puts Mr and Mrs J back in the position they would have  been  but for the 
unsuitable advice.  So, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more to compensate  Mr and 
Mrs J.
Ive noted the comments  Mr and Mrs J have made about the mis-selling of other insurance 
policies by Lloyds.  We consider each case on its own merits, so I dont think  it would be 
appropriate to place significant  weight  on the fact other mis-selling  complaints have been 
upheld when  making a finding  on this complaint. I note the other policies were a different 
type of product which worked in a very different way to the polices subject to this complaint. 
Historically, the sales of life assurance  with mortgages dont have the same concerns 
associated with the practices of PPI mis-selling. For these reasons, I dont think  the two 
situations are easily  comparable or a strong  reason to say these  policies were  mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs J have raised concerns about the payment of commission and how this could  
influence advisors  priorities   and ultimately  lead to the mis-selling of policies.  I understand 
the point they are making here but I dont  think it is correct  to say that where commission  is 
paid to an advisor a policy  must have been  mis-sold.  I dont think  there is sufficient evidence 
to support that this happened when  Mr and Mrs J were sold their policies. For the reasons 
Ive explained,  Im satisfied the sale of the 2002  policy was suitable  for them  at the time,  
regardless of any commission that may have been  paid. And while the 2004  policy  wasnt 
wholly suitable, the compensation offered by Lloyds to Mr and Mrs J does fairly compensate 
them. 
My final decision
My final decision I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint or make any award above the offer 
Lloyds Bank  PLC has made in respect of the 2004  policy. I understand this compensation 
has already be paid to them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0296382