K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss L complain  about bank charges that Barclays Bank UK PLC have taken from 
their joint account. They  say it was wrong of Barclays to have taken those charges because 
it didnt give them any information about when it would be doing  so. Mr B and Miss L want  
the charges refunded.
background
Mr B and Miss Ls account incurred charges because  payments were attempted  without 
enough money being available in it to cover those amounts. In early 2017, Mr B phoned 
Barclays and said their account had been  charged, but they hadnt received anything to say 
this would be happening. 
Barclays said it had written to Mr B and Miss L about the charge,  but agreed  to refund it on 
that occasion. It told Mr B that, through his online banking, he could see copies of the letters 
the bank had sent, as well as copies of the accounts statements.
Mr B and Miss Ls account continued to incur  charges for the same reasons and, in around  
May 2018, Mr B called Barclays  again. He told the bank that it had continued to take charges 
from his joint account most months and had failed  to give him or Miss L any information 
about when it would  be doing this. 
Barclays looked into Mr B and Miss Ls concerns.  It said the charges  had been  applied 
correctly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and it had written to 
Mr B and Miss L each  time a charge had been  incurred. Barclays also said that Mr B was set 
up for text alerts, and both internet and mobile banking, so he had different ways  of keeping 
up to date with the account in the event its letters werent being  received.
Mr B and Miss L didnt  agree. They approached our service and told us they hadnt received 
any information about the charges, explaining  that they received their statements every three 
months. They felt that even if they had received the information the bank said it had sent 
(which said charges would be taken  14 days after their statements), it was wrong of Barclays 
to have taken  them when it did  because it took them monthly, not three  monthly. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He thought  that Barclays had 
applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions  of the account and explained:
the bank had written  to Mr B and Miss L saying when the charges would be taken 
Mr B had elected to receive his statements every three  months, but the bank 
generated a statement each month and charges were applied  in line with that
Mr B had other ways  of seeing  when the charges were due to be taken, because he 
had both internet  and mobile banking
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld  but Mr B and Miss L 
disagreed. They reiterated their original concerns, which were  that Barclays hadnt told them  
when it would be taking  the charges, and that those charges should have been taken in line 
with when they received their statements (every three months).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN08350032Banks can apply charges  to their customers accounts for a number of different  reasons. In 
this case, Mr B and Miss Ls account incurred charges because  there  wasnt enough money  
available in it to clear a number  of payments that had been attempted.  The terms and 
conditions of Mr B and Miss Ls account say:
If you try to make a payment  from your current account and we refuse  it due to lack of funds 
(i e because  you dont have the money  to cover it, (including any available arranged  
overdraft, Emergency Borrowing or buffer we give you)), we may charge you a fee.
The terms and conditions  also go on to say what Barclays will do if this happens:
Well let you know when  you have triggered one of these fees, and tell you at least  14 days 
in advance of the date we plan to take the fee(s)  from your account. These are charges you 
can avoid by planning and by managing your account carefully. For example, we offer text 
alerts that we can send  you when  you get near a limit you set.
Mr B and Miss L have  said that Barclays didnt tell them  when it would be taking those  
charges, but the bank has said that it did. When evidence  is inconclusive, like it is here, I 
have to make a finding on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I find is most likely to 
have happened, based on the available evidence and in view of the surrounding 
circumstances. 
Barclays has provided copies of the letters it says it sent to Mr B and Miss L, and the 
address shown for them is correct. On balance, the available evidence shows  that the bank 
did send these. It therefore follows that I am of the opinion that Barclays took appropriate 
steps to tell them about the charges, as set out in the accounts terms and conditions, even 
those letters were not received. 
As the account  holders,  its Mr B and Miss Ls responsibility to manage their account  in line 
with its terms  and conditions. I understand that Mr B and Miss L believe that the charges 
they incurred should have  been taken every three months  because thats how often they 
received copies of their statements   but thats  not how the bank  charges  were applied.
The letters Barclays  sent to Mr B and Miss L explain:
 [] you have  been charged  an Unpaid Transaction  Fee. [] No more  than one Unpaid 
Transaction Fee will be charged  on any one working day, and no more than four of these 
fees in any monthly  charging period. The fees won't  be charged to your account until at least  
14 days after the date of your statement. The monthly charging period  for these fees closes  
two business days before we issue your statement.
Barclays generated a statement for Mr B and Miss Ls account every  month  and any charges 
that their account incurred  during  that period were applied. In line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr B and Miss Ls account, those charges were not taken until at least  14 days 
after the date of that statement.  I appreciate that Mr B and Miss L only received copies of 
their statements every three months, but that doesnt mean the bank acted wrongly in 
applying the charges when it did.
Mr B was set up for both online and mobile banking  and the bank had, on more than one 
occasion, explained that the accounts statements and copies of the letters  it had sent could 
be viewed this way. So even if Mr B and Miss L did not receive  Barclays  letters, there were  
alternative ways for them to keep up to date with the activity  on their account.
Ref: DRN08350033I realise that my findings will come  as a disappointment  to Mr B and Miss L, but it is my 
opinion that Barclays  has acted fairly.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.  
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0835003