K821x#15complaint
Miss T and Mr V are unhappy with how AXA Insurance  UK Plc have dealt  with their claim, 
under their buildings  insurance policy.
When I mention AXA, Im also referring to any of its appointed representatives  or agents.
background
Miss T and Mr Vs house was flooded by excess rain water in August 2017.  The rain water  
caused the external drains to overflow, resulting in dirty water entering the house for about 
four hours at a depth of a few inches.  The fire brigade pumped and cleared some  of the 
water away  and, as the water level dropped,  Miss T and Mr V cleared the remaining water  
themselves. 
Miss T and Mr V notified AXA of the flooding the following  day. AXA appointed an expert to 
attend the house and start the drying process.  De-humidifiers were  placed in the kitchen and 
conservatory, where the damage was believed  to be contained.  The damage was extensive, 
and Miss T and Mr V were particularly concerned about the floor tiles throughout the kitchen 
and conservatory.  They felt that the tiles had absorbed  a lot of the dirty water  during the 
flood and needed to be replaced.
The drying process took longer than inspected.  The kitchen walls werent drying  and the 
drying equipment  only stabilised other areas.  It wasnt drying  as it should. There  was also a 
concern that the flood water had got under the sub-floor void in the lounge as the floor was 
showing signs of cupping.  This area was fogged by AXA and didnt show  any damp areas  or 
standing flood water. AXA visited and said there was a problem with the joists under the  
sub-floor void, and they were running  the wrong way. This was preventing adequate air flow 
and increasing  the moisture  load. 
There was also a concern  from AXA about  the paving slabs  at the rear of the property. 
AXAs report  said that the slabs had been  re-laid  on top of the previous slabs, and the height 
of the paving was now level with the air bricks.  This would allow water in whenever it rained, 
and during the flood as there didnt appear to be an adequate damp-proof  membrane (DPM)  
applied. 
The issue  with the kitchen tiles remained.  AXA had a couple of expert reports done,  which  
were conflicting in their information. But AXA felt that the tiles could be cleaned  and would  
be back in the condition they were  before the flood. They didnt think  they needed replacing. 
Miss T and Mr V were  reluctant  to go ahead with the cleaning  of the tiles as they werent 
convinced it would solve the problem. They were also concerned  that the chemicals used in 
the drying process could further damage the tiles. Miss T and Mr V didnt allow the tiles to be 
cleaned and felt they needed to be replaced  throughout.  
AXA accepted the claim for the kitchen  suite and offered Miss T and Mr V a cash settlement 
to enable the kitchen to be replaced.  But it didnt accept the claim for the replacement  of the 
floor tiles. It said their expert had confirmed the tiles could be cleaned, so replacement  of the 
tiles wasnt necessary.
Miss T and Mr V didnt  agree with AXA and brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator agreed with Miss T and Mr V. He said AXA should offer a cash  settlement to 
replace the tiles. He also said AXA should  stabilise the moisture  load under  the sub-floor 
Ref: DRN01620322void in the lounge by injecting dry air into it. Miss T had mentioned  slugs being seen on the 
walls in some areas, so our investigator  recommended pest control. He also said AXA 
should pay £450 compensation to Miss T and Mr V for the delays throughout the claim. 
AXA didnt agree with this. They said they had two reports that suggest the tiles can be 
cleaned. They also said they thought  the sub-floor void was dry. AXA said that pest control  
wasnt acceptable. They said the slugs were now being seen as the house had inherent 
damp issues, which wasnt  covered by the policy. They did accept the compensation 
amount.
As AXA didnt agree,  the case was passed  to me to decide.
I didnt have enough information to decide.  The reports were conflicting and inconclusive 
about some  of the issues. I asked AXA, Miss T and Mr V to agree to a final,  independent  
surveyor to visit and produce a report that both parties would agree to. AXA,  Miss T and    
Mr V agreed to this. Miss T selected  the surveyor to do the report. 
In order to get some clarity on the conflicting points of view between  both sides, I asked the 
surveyor to specifically address the following points:
What, in their opinion, is required to provide a lasting and effective repair to the 
lounge flooring?  There are concerns about the layout of the joists and whether 
theyre preventing  adequate air flow throughout the void. Its been mentioned that 
fogging and sanitising the void will only stabilise it but wont  be a preventative 
measure. I need to know the reasons for this;
The height and layout of the paving slabs to the rear of the house. Its been  reported 
that the slabs have been laid above the height of any damp-proof course and in line 
with the air bricks, thus resulting  in rain water flowing through and under the floor. 
However, Miss T and Mr V have disputed this; 
What, in their opinion, is required to provide a lasting and effective repair to the damp  
walls in the kitchen  and extension area? Its been suggested that there isnt a damp-
proof course between  the walls and the external brickwork. Again, this has been 
questioned by Miss T and Mr V;
What, in their opinion, is required to provide a lasting and effective repair to the 
travertine tiles throughout the rear of the house? Miss T agrees  that the tiles may be 
dry, but theyve absorbed a lot of the original dirty flood water  and, because  of their 
porous nature, need lifting and replacing. AXAs claim  submission  from their expert  
couldnt rule this out either. Its also felt that the concrete slab underneath  the tiles is 
still wet. Again, its unclear if theres a damp-proof course here.  Id like the surveyor 
to assess the tiles and the concrete underneath;
Miss T has mentioned  slugs  at the house.  It would be beneficial to see the surveyors  
view on that.
The report  was sent to AXA, Miss T and Mr V. It was very detailed and provided answers to 
the points as required. 
Having reviewed the report, AXA made an increased cash  settlement offer to Miss T and   
Mr V. They accepted that some remedial work might be required to help with the cupping  of 
Ref: DRN01620323the lounge floor. They increased their offer to £15,763.31. They also offered to increase the 
compensation amount to £500.  Miss T and Mr V didnt accept this. They felt the report 
confirmed their initial concerns regarding the floor tiles. 
I agreed with them  on this. I asked AXA if they would consider removing and replacing the 
floor tiles throughout the kitchen and conservatory.  While replacing the tiles I asked them  to 
consider having  a DPM fitted to ensure any repairs were lasting and effective. AXA said they 
were prepared to consider  the replacement of the floor tiles and fitting of a DPM, provided  
Miss T sent in two estimates for the work.  She did this, which I asked AXA to consider.
I havent received  a response from AXA following the receipt of the estimates. I am now able 
to let both sides  know my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I asked the independent  surveyor to answer five questions  in his report. I will address each 
of the questions individually in the order they are above.
The lounge flooring
The report  mentions the slight cupping or bowing of the lounge  floor at its edges.  But it 
doesnt suggest any remedial action or attribute the damage to the flood. Although it doesnt 
rule it out either. 
The report  is very conclusive  about  the floor joists under the floor.  It includes photos  that 
show the joists  are running parallel to the air bricks and are preventing  adequate  air flow 
between the flooring and the sub-floor void. The report states that, over time, the inadequate 
air flow could lead to a rise in moisture levels in the walls. The report  also showed that the 
air bricks at the front of the house  were  either  level or below the level of the paving.  This will 
allow rainwater to enter and, without the adequate air flow, lead to additional problems with 
dampness. The report has made recommendations for Miss T and Mr V to remedy this. But 
this remedial work isnt as a result of the flood that occurred  in 2017 so I cant hold AXA 
responsible for it.
AXA have accepted that the reason for the bowing of the floor is inconclusive in the report.  
As part of their revised offer after seeing  the report they included  an allowance  of £2,500 for 
Miss T and Mr V to have the lounge  floor repaired.  I think this is reasonable as the bowing 
cant be proven to be caused by the flood  in 2017. 
Ref: DRN01620324Rear paving  slabs
The paving  slabs  at the rear of the house slope towards the conservatory. The report has 
also highlighted some concerns with the brickwork on the conservatory  and a lack of an 
adequate damp-proof course. The paving slabs are laid at a level above the existing     
damp-proof course and that, coupled with some  of the missing mortar in the brickwork  and 
around the conservatory door, will allow  rainwater to enter  the brickwork. Miss T and Mr Vs 
walls are showing signs of dampness, and the meter readings taken by AXA confirm this, but 
I cant say that the flood  is the primary reason for this. So, I wont  be asking AXA to do 
anything further  here.
Kitchen and extension walls
AXA had already agreed an allowance  in their original settlement for Miss T and Mr V to deal 
with any flood damage to the walls  in the kitchen and conservatory areas. I think  its fair for 
them to do this. As mentioned above, the report has also highlighted other issues  with the 
walls in these areas,  which arent  as a result of the flood. Miss T and Mr V will be 
responsible for any remedial work  to correct  those faults.
Travertine tiles
Miss T has continually voiced her concern with AXAs suggested remedial  work  for the 
travertine tiles throughout the kitchen and conservatory. AXA wanted to clean the tiles and 
felt this would have reinstated them to their pre-claim  condition. But Miss T said that the tiles 
were porous  in nature and had absorbed a lot of the dirty flood water that had entered  the 
house. She said the tiles had black and brown  speckles on them. She had also spoken to a 
tile specialist, who confirmed this. She didnt dispute that the tiles were dry, but she didnt  
feel they could  be cleaned back to their original  condition.  
I agree  with Miss T. AXA have been reluctant  to consider lifting and replacing the tiles, but I 
think there has been enough evidence  throughout the claim to show  them  this was the right 
thing to do. 
AXA visited  the house in September 2017, shortly after the claim had been notified to them. 
Their report at this stage showed that the floor was still showing high moisture content  under 
the floor tiles. It also said the tiles were lifting in all areas. The report recommended that all 
floor tiles throughout the area were removed, and the floor beneath should be dried. It also 
recommended a liquid DPM to be installed when  the floor tiles were reinstated.  
AXA wanted  a second opinion so asked another expert to attend. That report  said that the 
floor tiles needed to be lifted to aid the drying process.
AXA didnt lift the tiles. The original expert had attended again  and felt that the tiles could be 
cleaned. AXA wanted to proceed with this, but Miss T and Mr V didnt  agree.  Miss T said too 
much of the dirty water  had been absorbed for the tiles to be cleaned properly. She also had 
concerns about  the cleaning process and the chemicals that would be used, as the tiles 
could be damaged during the cleaning. 
Miss T asked AXA to send the second  expert back so she could highlight  the damage  to the 
tiles. AXA agreed  to this. The report came back  and said that there were black  speckles 
within the surfaces of the tiles which may be due to dirty water entering  the house.  It also 
said that cleaning  may avoid  the need to replace the tiles.
Ref: DRN01620325AXA proceeded with their decision  not to lift and replace the tiles. However, in their final 
claim submission they said:
to the rear of the property, the entire  area is tiled with travertine tiles which  are porous and 
have been submerged in flood water  for approximately 5 hours. We cannot rule out that 
some of the flood water  was not absorbed by the tiles and then transferred onto adjacent 
wood floor which is now cupping.
The report  from the final independent surveyor, appointed by Miss T and Mr V states:
In our experience  it is usual practice to remove floor tiles where they have been submerged  
by flood water, as this would enable the concrete floors beneath to be cleaned and dried 
prior to reinstatement works being  commenced.
The final report confirms what AXA were told by their expert  in September  2017. I think AXA 
have caused a significant inconvenience and delay to Miss T and Mr V in respect of the tiles 
and need to put it right. Miss T and Mr V have been  living in the house for two years,  using a 
kitchen that has been subjected to dirty flood  water,  which  has been allowed to absorb and 
cause an unpleasant smell.  
Miss T has provided  two estimates to AXA for the removing and replacing of the tiles. The 
estimates also include installing a DPM above the concrete floor slab.  Im satisfied this 
needs to be done to ensure a lasting and effective repair  to the kitchen and conservatory  
floors. This was also confirmed by AXA in September 2017.  Both estimates were consistent  
with the work needed and both were  priced at approximately £13,500.  AXA have seen both 
estimates and have been given the opportunity to comment on them or provide an estimate  
of their own. They havent done  this, so they need to cash settle this aspect as well as their 
previous offer to replace the kitchen  units,  doors, plinths and architraves. AXA must  make a 
cash settlement to Miss T and Mr V for £30,000. Im satisfied this will allow Miss T and Mr V 
to replace their kitchen,  remove and replace the floor tiles, fit an adequate DPM and cover 
any additional costs  for the lounge floor and kitchen walls. 
Slugs
When the independent surveyor attended Miss T and Mr Vs house, Miss T confirmed that 
she hadnt seen  any slugs for a couple  of months.  Shes since shown me evidence that 
slugs have been  seen. However,  the report has highlighted a few areas  of inherent 
dampness at the house, and the slugs may have been attracted by that. As I cant  say that 
the slugs have  arrived predominantly because of the flood or AXAs mistakes, Im not asking 
AXA to consider this.
Miss T and Mr V have  been severely inconvenienced throughout this claim, and have 
experienced delays, particularly  regarding  AXAs  reluctance to adequately  repair  the floor 
tiles. AXA should  pay Miss T and Mr V £500  compensation  to reflect  their inconvenience.
Ref: DRN01620326my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint. Im telling AXA Insurance  UK Plc 
to:
Cash settle Miss T and Mr Vs claim for £30,000;
Pay Miss T and Mr V £500 for the inconvenience  and delays throughout the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 January 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0162032