K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
S.A. (Mapfre) declined  his travel insurance claim.  My references to Mapfre include its 
agents.
background
Mr K took his planned ferry to Europe  for his outward journey on holiday. When  the ferry 
arrived in Europe  he returned to his vehicle to disembark but due to his vehicles flat battery 
he wasnt able to continue  the journey as planned.  Mr K says the flat battery was caused by 
a mechanical malfunction.
Mr K decided to return to the UK immediately. Once in the UK his vehicles battery  recovered  
charge and he was able to continue his holiday. Mr K claimed for his additional ferry cost, 
lost accommodation  costs and travel  delay benefit.
Mapfre declined the claim. It said the policy covered travel delay due to public transports 
mechanical breakdown.  Delay caused  by mechanical breakdown of a policyholders  own 
vehicle wasnt covered.
Mr K complained. He said the travel delay section  of the policy doesnt say mechanical  
breakdown of his vehicle  isnt covered. He compared that to the missed  departure section of 
the policy which specifically says a flat battery  in his vehicle isnt covered. He thought the 
policy wording unclear and Mapfre was using  the missed departure  section to decline his 
travel delay claim. He wants  Mapfre to pay his claim.
Our investigator thought Mapfre fairly declined the claim.
Mr K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He sent a detailed  response;  in 
summary he thinks as the policy doesnt state clearly that his circumstances arent covered 
he is covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.
I needed to decide whether Mapfre fairly and reasonable declined Mr Ks claim, and I think it 
did. Ill explain why.
The travel delay section  of the policy is the correct section to assess Mr Ks claim. The 
missed departure section  doesnt apply as he didnt miss his scheduled departure from the 
UK.
The travel delay section  of the policy says Mapfre:
will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits  if your final international departure  
from or to the United  Kingdom by aircraft,  sea vessel, coach or train is delayed for more  than 
Ref: DRN0763110212 hours due to poor weather conditions (but not including  weather conditions  defined as 
natural catastrophe),  a strike,  industrial action or mechanical breakdown.
Ive read Mr Ks detailed  points. But those points dont change  that the policy is very clear 
travel delay cover is for mechanical breakdown only to aircraft,  sea vessel,  coach or train.  
Theres no cover for delay due to mechanical breakdown of Mr Ks vehicle. The policy 
doesn't need to specifically say that Mr Ks circumstances are excluded   the extent of the 
cover for delay is very clear in the above  policy wording. That wording can't reasonably be 
interpreted to suggest cover for Mr Ks situation.
The missed  departure section of the policy does  say theres no cover  for Mr Ks vehicle if it 
has a flat battery.  But thats because for missed departure mechanical breakdown of his 
vehicle is covered unless the breakdown is due to a flat battery or other listed  causes. So the 
policy term details the flat battery exclusion  to the general cover for mechanical breakdown 
to the vehicle. 
Mapfre can choose what it wants to cover but it needs to make  the extent of cover clear. 
Mr K says Mapfres  claim response that his situation  is not something we look to cover  
gives the impression  it makes random decisions to cover different situations. Mapfres 
response could  have been  worded better. But the response doesnt alter that the policy  
wording is clear about whats covered under the delay section. 
Mapfres letter (through its agent) of September  2018 to Mr K shows it considered the delay 
section policy terms in coming to its decision. Mapfre  hasnt considered  the claim under the 
wrong section wording.
Mapfre doesnt need to pay Mr Ks travel delay claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0763110