K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) declined his claim for treatment 
under his private medical insurance policy and handled his claim poorly.  
My references to Mr E will include his representatives. 
background
Mr E had private medical  insurance  through an employer scheme. He had been 
experiencing back pain and was booked to undergo treatment. 
Mr E contacted BUPA to get authorisation. BUPA looked into this and said it couldnt 
authorise the treatment.  It said this was because the doctor Mr E was planning to use for the 
procedure  Doctor P  was one that it no longer recognised. 
BUPA also said its clinical  team had reviewed the planned treatment  cervical  spine  
discoplasty  and concluded  it was an experimental procedure. BUPA said this meant it 
wouldnt be covered,  as the policy  Mr E had didnt cover experimental  treatment.  
Mr E said he disagreed with BUPAs  decision.  He went  ahead  with the treatment in April 
2018 and said he paid for this himself. He later made a complaint to BUPA and claimed  for 
the costs of the treatment. 
BUPA didnt  uphold  Mr Es complaint.  It said it had advised Mr E he wouldnt be covered in 
advance of him undergoing the original  treatment. It said Doctor P, who treated Mr E, was 
a medical practitioner  it no longer recognised. And it said the policy stated that experimental 
treatment wasnt covered.
Mr E later underwent follow-up treatment with Doctor P. And submitted a second  claim to 
BUPA. BUPA responded advising the claim would  be paid as the treatment had been 
pre-authorised. And it made a payment to Mr E. 
Just over a week later,  BUPA  contacted  Mr E again  and said it had sent the payment by 
mistake. It said the treatment hadnt been pre-authorised and the claim had not been  settled. 
BUPA asked  Mr E to return the payment hed received. 
Mr E brought his complaint to this service. He said he wanted BUPA to pay his first claim in 
full and to stop seeking  a repayment  of the amount it had paid him in respect  of his second 
claim. He also said he thought  he should  be paid compensation for the time he had spent 
dealing with BUPA. 
An investigator looked into what had happened  and said she thought BUPA  was entitled to 
turn down the first claim due to the medical  practitioner not being covered under Mr Es 
policy. She also said BUPA had made  a mistake  in making a payment to Mr E for his second  
claim, and said she thought it wasnt  unfair  for BUPA to ask for this payment to be returned. 
Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
Ref: DRN07104082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a very detailed submission to us about his complaint. I wont  be commenting  
on every  point  instead Ive concentrated on what I believe  to be the main  issues. And this 
reflects the informal nature of our service. 
BUPA said it turned  down Mr Es initial claim on two grounds. Firstly  due to Mr Es chosen  
medical practitioner not being one it recognises, and secondly because  it deemed the 
treatment to be experimental, and therefore  not covered under the policy. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say BUPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  So its for me to determine 
whether or not I think BUPA has treated Mr E fairly and reasonably  when turning down his 
claim. 
Unrecognised medical practitioner
Having looked  at the terms  and conditions of the policy, within the definition  of 
Unrecognised medical practitioner, hospital or healthcare facility the policy  states the 
following:
treatment provided by a medical  practitioner,  hospital or healthcare facility to 
whom we have sent a written notice that we no longer recognise them  for the 
purposes of our plans.  You can contact us be telephone for details of treatment 
providers we have  sent written  notice to or visit Facilities Finder at 
bupaglobal.com/en/facilities/finder 
Ive seen the schedule of BUPAs unrecognised medical practitioners, and Doctor P is listed 
in this document. 
Ive also seen evidence  from BUPA that it advised  Doctor P in writing that it no longer 
recognised him as a provider. The letter stated Doctor P needed to inform all BUPA  patients 
that they would not be covered when using his services. This letter was issued to Doctor P in 
2011, so several  years  before  Mr E underwent treatment with him. 
Mr E contacted BUPA ahead of his treatment to request  authorisation. Ive seen an email  
from BUPA to Mr E, which states that the treatment had not been pre-authorised. And it 
advised that Doctor  P was not recognised. 
Because of this I dont think BUPA acted unfairly  when  it declined to provide cover  for Mr E 
to be treated by Doctor  P.
I know Mr E has concerns over BUPAs reasons for choosing not to recognise  Doctor P. 
However, the medical practitioners an insurer chooses to recognise or not, are decided 
entirely at its own discretion. So BUPAs reasons for de-recognising Doctor P dont make 
a difference here. 
BUPA said Mr E could  have undergone  eligible treatment with a different  medical  practitioner  
recognised by BUPA, and if hed done  so he would have been  covered  under the policy. 
Ref: DRN07104083Ive seen evidence  that Mr E had seen a different doctor  Doctor  L  for a consultation, 
shortly before he received treatment from Doctor  P. And BUPA has said Doctor L is one of 
its recognised medical practitioners. So Im satisfied there were other medical  practitioners  
Mr E could have used, who were recognised by BUPA. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  Doctor P was not one of BUPAs recognised  
medical practitioners and that this was made clear to Mr E before he went  ahead with 
treatment. And Mr E had the option  to use a different medical  practitioner  covered by the 
policy. So Ive not found that BUPA acted unfairly  or unreasonably in turning down the claim. 
Experimental treatment 
BUPA also turned down Mr Es first claim as it deemed the treatment he received to be 
experimental and therefore not covered under the policy. Ive determined  BUPA  was entitled  
to turn down  Mr Es claim based on the use of an unrecognised medical  practitioner.  So, 
whether or not I agree with BUPAs decision to deem the initial  treatment experimental wont  
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. So, Im not going to comment  any further 
on this.
Interim invoices 
Mr E has said he thought BUPA had turned down his first claim due to issues  over the type 
of invoices hed supplied as evidence of his costs. BUPA rejected the interim invoices Mr E 
provided when  initially assessing his first claim.  It said it couldnt accept interim invoices and 
needed final, itemised invoices. I can understand it would do this to determine the most 
accurate costs, and I dont think thats  unreasonable. BUPA  has said ultimately  it didnt turn 
down the claim due to issues  with invoices. It said the claim was turned down because  the 
medical practitioner used and the type of treatment received, were not covered under Mr Es 
policy. And as Ive said, I think the use of an unrecognised medical practitioner was a valid 
reason for declining the claim. 
BUPAs error with the second claim
Mr E made a second  claim for follow-up  treatment with Doctor  P. 
BUPA contacted  Mr E in September 2018 and said his second claim would be paid. And it 
sent him a payment.  BUPA followed this up with Mr E in another  communication shortly  
after, advising it had sent the earlier letter and the payment by mistake. It said Mr Es second 
claim was still under  review and that it was still discussing this with his representative. 
As BUPA made a payment to Mr E in error, I dont think its unreasonable  that its asked him 
to pay the money  back. 
Mr Es request for compensation 
Mr E has said he thinks he should  be paid compensation for the time hes spent dealing with 
BUPA overall in respect  of his claim.  
BUPA provided Mr E with incorrect information about his second  claim. And made  
a payment to him in error. However,  as Mr E was already aware that his claim was unlikely 
to succeed, and as BUPA  contacted him again  within a short amount of time to correct its 
Ref: DRN07104084error, I dont  think Mr E suffered any detriment as a result. And Ive already determined  that 
I think BUPA had a valid reason for turning down Mr Es first claim. So overall, Im not 
persuaded that any compensation is warranted.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And 
I make  no award against BUPA Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0710408