K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company  UK Limited incorrectly  rejected a claim
and avoided his Farm Motor Policy.
A representative has helped Mr C bring his complaint to us, for ease  any reference to Mr C 
includes those of his representative. 
background
Mr C bought his policy in April 2017 through an insurance broker. In July 2017  Mr C made a 
claim for theft.  Catlin  reviewed Mr Cs claim and rejected it. They  said this was because Mr C 
had told them his occupation was a smallholder, but when  they reviewed his claim  he said
his occupation  was a ground worker.
Catlin said if theyd been told Mr C was a ground  worker  when he bought  his policy  they 
wouldnt have insured him. Because of this they avoided  (cancelled from the start as though 
it never existed) his policy,  rejected his claim, and refunded  his premium. Mr C didnt think 
this was fair and complained. He disagreed with being called a ground  worker and said he 
hadnt signed the typed  investigation report saying this. He also complained  about how long
Catlin had taken to review his claim.
Catlin reviewed Mr Cs complaint and said their decision to avoid his policy  was correct.
They agreed theyd  taken too long to review the claim  and paid Mr C £400 compensation for 
the poor claim handling. Mr C didnt  agree  and brought his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October  2019  where I said:
When Mr C bought his policy  he had a responsibility   under the Insurance  Act 2015  (the 
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for Catlin to take any action at all it needs 
to show Mr C didnt do this and that he made whats known  as a qualifying  breach. Under  
the Act a qualifying  breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the 
customer because they would either  not have sold them the policy, or would have done so 
on different terms.
The statement  of fact provided from when Mr C purchased his policy says Do you or have
you ever traded under another name? and Mr C has answered  No. It also asks Have  you 
or anyone  directly connected  with the business been  declared  bankrupt?. Mr C has 
answered No to this question as well.
Catlins said that if Mr C had answered  these questions correctly, they wouldnt have insured 
him. Mr C has disputed  ever saying he was a ground worker,  and also said he voluntarily 
became bankrupt rather than being made  bankrupt. However Im not satisfied  this is what  
was being asked. I say that because the question  doesnt ask if you have another  
occupation, it asks if you have ever traded under another name. Im also satisfied the 
question about  bankruptcy is about  whether someone has been declared  bankrupt, 
voluntarily or not. And as Mr C has been declared  bankrupt Im satisfied he didnt answer 
this question correctly.  Because  of this I dont  think hes provided a fair presentation of the 
risk to Catlin.
Ref: DRN00133432For Catlin to take any action they need to show they would have  either not insured Mr C, or 
done so but on different terms. Catlin have provided  evidence to show  if Mr C had said hed 
previously been  declared  bankrupt, they wouldnt have covered  him. Im therefore satisfied
Mr C has made a qualifying breach under  the Act.
The remedies available to Catlin  depend  on whether the misrepresentation is deliberate  or 
reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless. Catlin have avoided  Mr Cs policy,  refused his 
claim and refunded his premium. This is the remedy allowed when the misrepresentation is 
neither deliberate nor reckless, and Caitlin  wouldnt have entered into the contract with Mr C.
As Caitlin have shown they wouldnt  have  entered into the contract with Mr C Im satisfied 
what theyve done is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. For this reason Im not going 
to tell them to do anything different.
Caitlin accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr C said he didnt accept it. He said he didnt 
declare the bankruptcy  as this policy was in his own name rather  than a business name and 
that he didnt think he needed to declare the bankruptcy as it was more  than six years ago. 
Mr C also said that other  insurers dont expect a bankruptcy to be declared if its over ten 
years ago and that if hed declared it, he feels Caitlin wouldnt  have  refused  to insure him or 
apply different terms. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Cs response,  but the points  hes made havent persuaded me to change 
my mind. I say this because  this policy was in his own name and the question  asked  if Mr C 
had been declared bankrupt, not a company. I understand Mr C said his bankruptcy  wont 
show on his credit file after six years, but the question didnt ask if the bankruptcy was within  
the last six years. It asked if Mr C or anyone  directly connected with the business had been 
declared bankrupt. As Mr C has previously been declared bankrupt, Im satisfied  that he 
didnt answer the question  correctly.  
Mr C also said other  insurers wouldnt expect the bankruptcy to be declared if its more than 
ten years  ago. While  that may be true, Im considering  here what Caitlin  asked not other 
insurers, so I dont  think that makes a difference in this case. I appreciate  Mr C feels that 
Caitlin would have  insured him if hed declared  his bankruptcy, but Caitlin have shown us 
they wouldnt have  offered  cover in this situation. 
For these reasons I wont be telling Caitlin to do anything different. 
Ref: DRN00133433my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0013343