K820x#14complaint
Miss Gs unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC allowed  her to go into an unplanned overdraft when 
she said she wanted a basic  account without an overdraft. 
background
Miss G opened an account  with Lloyds and asked it for a basic account  with no overdraft  
facility. Despite this when she went abroad the account went overdrawn on two occasions by 
very small  amounts. Miss G says this impacted her credit file and as result Lloyds didnt give 
her a loan.  So, she had to get a loan elsewhere at a higher interest rate. She wants the 
overdraft amount refunded, compensation and her credit file amended.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Debit card payments may not leave  an account  immediately. The timing is in the 
hands of the payee and their processing systems. As soon as a payment is 
authorised Lloyds doesnt have  any control over when a transaction  will actually be 
paid from the account.  The only way to avoid going overdrawn is to keep a track of 
the balance and debt card transactions so that payments can be planned 
accordingly. 
Lloyds didnt do anything wrong  allowing Miss Gs account  to go overdrawn.  Even  
though Miss G had asked not to have  an overdraft facility Lloyds wouldnt be able to 
stop a payee from claiming a payment Miss G had authorised by debit card even if it 
took her account  overdrawn.
Lloyds says it hasnt  reported any negative information about this issue  to credit 
reference agencies.  And it doesnt  show up on the credit report  Miss G has supplied. 
So she cant ask Lloyds to make any amendments  to her credit history.
Lloyds is entitled  to make its own commercial  decisions  on who it lends to. Its said 
Miss Gs previous credit  history is likely to have contributed to its unwillingness to 
lend to her. The charges applied to transactions abroad are set out in the accounts  
terms and conditions.  And it wasnt an interest  bearing account.
Lloyds has handled Miss Gs account  fairly and in line with its terms and conditions.  
And it doesnt need to do anything.
Miss G doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says Lloyds has 
recently stopped  a direct debit going out that wouldve taken her account overdrawn. When 
she opened the account she specifically  asked not to have any form of overdraft or to go into 
the red. Lloyds  is at fault as it shouldnt have allowed any payment to take the account  into 
the red. This has led to her not getting a loan with Lloyds and having higher borrowing costs 
on one elsewhere.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05487712In this case Miss G used her debit  card abroad  and when the payments were  paid from her 
account it went overdrawn by small amounts. 
I understand Miss Gs frustration. But the simple fact is it was her responsibility  to monitor  
her account  and the payments she authorised from it using her debit  card. Once she 
authorised the debit  card payments Lloyds had no control over when they would  be taken 
from her account. That was largely in the hands  of the payee and its bank.
Miss Gs account didnt, as she requested, have a formal overdraft facility. Even so when 
these two authorised  debit card payments instructions were  eventually received by Lloyds it 
couldnt stop them and it had to take the money from her account even if it meant the 
account went overdrawn. I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in this regard.
Miss G says Lloyds recently stopped a direct  debit from going out of her account as it would 
have taken it overdrawn. But that is something  Lloyds can control and is different to an 
authorised debit card transaction  payment which it cant  control.
Miss G is also unhappy that she wasnt given a Lloyds loan. But from what Lloyds has said it 
seems most likely it refused  to give it to her because  of her previous financial  history rather 
than as a result of the account  going  overdrawn on these occasions. Whatever the reason 
for Lloyds  declining her loan application  that is a matter of it exercising its commercial  
discretion in line with its lending  criteria.  Thats something we wouldnt normally get involved 
in.
It also doesnt appear that the fact the account went overdrawn  on these two occasions has 
been recorded on Miss Gs credit  history. And I cant therefore require Lloyds to amend it as 
she would  like.
Overall although  I recognise  Miss Gs strength of feeling I dont think  Lloyds has done 
anything wrong. And I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require it to do anything  differently 
or to pay any compensation to Miss G as shed like.
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0548771