K822xcomplaint
Miss N complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited trading as SEAT  
Finance has applied unfair charges  after her vehicle had been  repossessed.  She wants the 
charges to be reduced or waived.
background 
Miss N is represented in this complaint by a family  member but for ease of reading Ill mostly 
refer to her.
Miss N tells us that in March 2018  she told SEAT  that she wanted to return her vehicle as 
she was in financial difficulties. She says she notified SEAT collection agents,  a company Ill 
refer to as B that the vehicle  was in possession of a third party. Miss N explained that it had 
been removed  from the estate where  she lived. She says that she later received notification  
from SEAT, in May 2018, that the vehicle had been  sold. And that she owed just over 
£1,800. But several months  later she was told that recovery  charges had been added and in 
September 2018 she says she received a statement which  was for a further £1,195  + VAT.
SEAT said that Miss Ns vehicle had been  removed by the owners of the estate in which  she 
lived due to it having been left in a damaged condition for so long. It said its recovery agents 
had paid the charges to have the vehicle released.  And in accordance  with the terms of the 
agreement these had been charged  to Miss N. It accepted  the liability letter  of 18 September 
2018 had been delayed  longer than usual.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 June  2020.  I indicated that I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint but only in part. I said I felt some of the additional collection 
and storage charges were excessive.
SEAT had earlier offered  to reduce  the outstanding balance  to £2,314.64 (from £2,893.30) if 
Miss N paid this as a lump sum.  I suggested that as Miss N was subject to a payment 
arrangement it was an offer she probably couldnt afford to accept. But I felt it was still the 
basis for a fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint. Provided the reduced figure was 
paid through the payment  arrangement and not required as a lump  sum.  I also said I 
intended to reduce the award  for distress  and inconvenience recommended by our 
investigator from £400 to £100. I explained that the purpose of compensation wasnt to 
penalise a business. And in this case SEATs error hadnt been in applying  the additional  
charges. It had been the delay in informing Miss N of these.
Since my provisional decision SEAT  has replied accepting my provisional decision providing 
the £100 distress  and inconvenience award  was deducted from the arrears. Neither Miss N 
nor her representative have replied.
As no new information has been  supplied,  Im not minded to change my provisional view.  
This is largely repeated in my final decision  which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN02223882I can see that Miss N has had an unpleasant experience in the circumstances surrounding 
the repossession and termination of her agreement.  And I understand  why shed be 
concerned at the additional financial loss this has incurred.
Miss Ns hire purchase agreement is a regulated  consumer credit agreement and our service
is able to consider  complaints relating to it.
Theres a complex background to this complaint and some  facts are still unclear. But given
the length of time after the events  in question, Im unlikely to receive any additional evidence
to clarify this any further. So Ill have to work with what Ive been  given so far.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss N wished to terminate the agreement due to financial difficulties. It appears  a voluntary 
termination (VT) might have been  possible as repayments had reached the 50% level. This 
is the point in a hire purchase agreement where a consumer can return  goods  without  further 
cost. This is subject to payments being made  up to date.  And the payment of other 
contractual charges which have accrued or do so as a result of the termination.
Contact notes Ive seen indicate  that in June 2017  Miss N wouldve been  able to terminate
the agreement  upon the payment  of arrears of £349.02. At that point she asked for
breathing space  to help sort her finances out. And she was given until 28 July 2017. I cant
see any further contact  being recorded until a default notice was issued  on 19 October  2017.
And the agreement was terminated on 6 December 2017. The outstanding debt at that time
was recorded  as £3,268.43.
On 10 January 2018 Miss N advised  B that the vehicle had been damaged. But it wasnt  until
21 February 2018 that SEATs collection agents B were able to locate the vehicle. At some
point - its not exactly clear when  - the vehicle had been moved  from where it had been
parked and taken  to storage. This may have been done by a third party acting on behalf of
property agents  for where Miss N resides.  It was recovered by B on 22 March 2018.
Charges of £600 (release fee); £252  agents  fees;  and £582  tow truck costs were  added to
Miss Ns account in September 2018. Although  shed received a statement dated
31 August 2018  which  had showed  her closing balance at that date to be £1,700.38.
As part of the terms and conditions of the agreement  Miss N was required to look after the
vehicle whilst it was in her possession. And she must bear some responsibility for it being
seized. This has added to the normal costs that are associated with returning a vehicle. In
principle, I dont think its unreasonable for SEAT to look to her to pay the costs  it incurred in
recovering its property.
SEAT was under an obligation to take reasonable steps to mitigate any losses. Its told me it 
refused to pay storage costs incurred prior to 21 February 2018. This was the date when it 
became aware  the vehicle had been  seized. So I can see it had some awareness of the duty 
to mitigate.
Ref: DRN02223883But it took about a month  between when the vehicle was located and the date of collection.
That suggests a lack of urgency in seeking  its recovery. As the indicated cost of storage was
apparently £55 per day - which  appears manifestly  excessive - I think  it was incumbent upon
SEAT or its agents B to act more expeditiously than they did. Its not apparent  why it
shouldve taken more  than a few days to have the vehicle collected.
Ive also not seen information to show how a charge of £582 for a tow truck is justified. There
is some  reference in SEATs notes  about  the vehicle being taken to Nottingham after
recovery. But given that this is over 100 miles  from where Miss N resides  - which I presume
is in close proximity to where the vehicle was recovered - Im not sure how this charge
arises. Once a vehicle  has been returned  the cost of onward transport would normally  be a
business cost.  It would be reasonable to expect  Miss N pay the cost of recovery to a local
SEAT collection point  but I dont think she should be liable beyond this.
Collection agents acting  for SEAT  wrote to Miss N on 24 February 2020 with an
offer of settlement. The letter indicated that if Miss N paid a sum of £2,314.64 this would be
accepted in full and final settlement. I appreciate this offer was probably well intentioned but
it also appears to be insensitive. The offer was conditional upon a lump sum payment being
made.
As far as Im aware Miss N had previously entered into a payment arrangement of £13.61
per month. Ive not been  informed that this has changed. The full debt total referred to in the
offer letter was £2,893.30. The last statement of account Id been supplied with prior to this
was dated 28 January  2019 when the debt stood at £3,066.33. That reduction in the debt 
appears consistent with the payment arrangement  being ongoing.  So the offer to Miss N 
was, on the available information,  one she could never afford.
Nonetheless I think it provides a basis  for a fair and reasonable settlement of this
complaint. Instead  of requiring the lump sum, SEAT should accept the lesser
sum of £2,314.64  by means of the current payment arrangement. Or, if required, a new
arrangement based on the revised figure. That would have much the same effect as
reducing the additional collection charges which Ive already indicated I think  are excessive.
Our adjudicator recommended  that SEAT should pay £400  to Miss N for distress and
inconvenience. I think that was somewhat over generous. Compensation isnt meant to
penalise a business. But to reflect any distress and inconvenience  experienced by a
consumer. I appreciate that the addition of charges  wouldve been an unpleasant shock for
Miss N. Given her precarious  financial  position it wouldve been upsetting as she was
working to reduce her debt. But SEATs error wasnt so much  the fact of making the charges 
as the time it took to notify  Miss N that they were  being applied.
I accept that Miss N would have  been  potentially misled by receiving  the letter dated
31 August 2018  which  read:
The shortfall amount  included in the closing balance includes any sums which  you have
failed to pay in full under the agreement when they became  due (whether or not included  in
a previous notice) is: £1,700.38.
I intend to award  Miss N £100 as I think thats a more appropriate sum.
Ref: DRN02223884In summary,  I find that Miss N should be required to contribute  towards the costs of 
collection which arose from her failure  to look after the vehicle. The original charges imposed 
were, in my opinion, excessive. Now that SEAT has made an offer which is fair and 
reasonable Im satisfied  this is a sufficient basis on which to determine the complaint. 
Its not our usual approach to require that awards  for distress  and inconvenience are 
deducted from arrears. But theres  nothing to prevent SEAT  from asking  Miss N if shes 
willing to permit this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  but only in 
part.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require Volkswagen Financial Services
(UK) Limited trading as SEAT Finance to take the following action:
1. Accept  £2,314.64  as the balance  owing on this account as of 24 February 2020.
(Any payments made since  this date to be credited);
2. Pay £100 to Miss N for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0222388