K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont give them a refund of interest  after 
they paid off a joint personal loan before the end of its term.
background
Mr and Mrs B repaid a joint personal  loan a few months before the end of the term. They  
think HSBC owes them a refund of interest.
HSBC said it adds  interest to its personal loans at the beginning of the loan and so initially 
the monthly repayments include a larger proportion of interest against capital. Towards  the 
end of the loan the repayments dont include any interest. So Mr and Mrs B arent due any 
refund.
The adjudicator was satisfied HSBC had calculated the interest correctly when Mr and Mrs B 
repaid the loan a few months early. And he thought  the bank wouldve been made them 
aware of the way it calculated interest  when  they took the loan out. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with this. They said they understood that interest  is added  at 
the beginning. But no one had made  them aware  of the way this would  affect the calculation 
of the monthly  repayments. And as they repaid the outstanding balance in October  2018  
they thought HSBC should at least refund the interest due in November.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about  the way HSBC  has calculated interest on their loan. And 
they are unhappy  this wasnt  explained  to them when they took out the loan.
The way a bank  calculates interest on a loan is a commercial decision and is not something  
we can interfere with. But we can look at whether something has gone  wrong  with that 
process that has caused Mr and Mrs B to lose out. 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that when they took the loan out the advisor  didnt explain to 
them about  the banks calculation of interest. But the loan agreement  they signed  gives the 
amount of capital borrowed  and the total amount  repayable  over the term of the loan which 
includes the interest. It also says this about early repayment:  
 Where you make any early repayment,  there may be a reduction in the amount of interest 
you will have  to pay. We are entitled to defer  the early repayment date by up to 28 days and 
to make a charge  equivalent of one month  interest  on the amount of the early repayment  
Ref: DRN08212902And the terms and conditions say If you repay part of the loan early, your monthly 
repayment will stay the same but you may repay the loan more  quickly.  If you repay  the loan 
in full, the formula in the regulations we use to work out the reduced amount of interest we 
can charge, works as if we charged  interest  at the rate that applies to the loan from the date 
we gave you the loan to the date which is 28 days after you give us notice, plus an additional
month if your loan is repayable over a period  of more than 12 months. For example, if the 
loan is for 36 months and you give us notice on 1 September that you want  to repay the loan
on 14 September, the amount required to repay  the loan will include interest up to 29 
October. 
So I think HSBC gave  them sufficient information before they took out their loan and I dont 
think it had to explain in detail how it calculated each monthly repayment. Particularly as it 
doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs B said from the outset they were  considering  repaying  the 
loan early. And I think Mr and Mrs B had sufficient information to know  how much  interest 
they would  pay over the term of the loan and what the effect would be of any early  
repayment of the loan.
It seems  to me that HSBC has calculated the interest in line with the terms and conditions  of 
its loan agreement and so I cant fairly find it should refund any interest.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0821290