K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold Payment Protection  
Insurance (PPI) with a credit card.
background
Briefly:
In 2000 Mr K applied  for a credit  card online.  At the same  time he also took out PPI designed  
to protect  his card payments in the event he couldnt  work because of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale  complaint because  they found that Mr K had likely 
chosen to take out the cover and there  was nothing to indicate it was wrong  or inappropriate 
for him.
Mr K disagrees so the complaint  comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this.
Mr K took out his credit card and PPI online. Mr K says the application must have been 
pre-ticked for PPI. Barclays has provided  a screenshot that it says Mr K would have seen 
when he made his application   its a screenshot weve seen before. And here I can see 
there are two radio buttons   Yes to take out PPI and No to decline it PPI. Importantly 
neither is pre-ticked and to proceed  with the credit card application a customer is 
required to select one of the options.
While I hear what  Mr K says about the application  being pre-ticked,  in light of the above  I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr K saw a screenshot  the same as or very similar to 
the example Ive seen and selected the Yes button  to take out PPI. And this is 
supported by Barclays records showing the information and answers to the questions he 
was asked during  his credit card application.
So I think Mr K chose  to take out PPI.
I can see Mr K has said Barclays advised  him to take out PPI. But this was an online 
application with no interaction with a member of Barclays staff, so Im satisfied Barclays 
didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K. This means it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him. 
Ref: DRN02828722Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. For example while the PPI policy terms and conditions appear to have 
been set out on the screen  during Mr Ks application, the important information wasnt  
highlighted and its possible Mr K continued  without  scrolling down through it all. But Mr 
K chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   for example Mr K was employed and in 
good health at the time - so it would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
theres nothing more Barclays Bank UK PLC needs  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282872