K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ss husband, Mr S, complains  on her behalf  about service she received  from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
background
In 2007, Mrs Ss mother, the late Mrs P, took out a share portfolio of Alternative Investment  
Market (AIM) stocks.  It was a service provided  by Barclays to those interested in mitigating 
their potential inheritance  tax planning.   
Mrs P made an initial investment of £50,000. At time the portfolio was managed at the 
discretion of an investment manager.  
In February 2009,  Barclays announced that it was ceasing  to manage the AIM portfolio and 
notified its customers of options, including the default position  the portfolio would be 
transferred to an execution only service    if it didnt hear back  from them,  thereby placing 
all investment decisions back upon the investor.  
I understand that the portfolio included 9,809 shares in a company called Thirdforce,  which 
announced that it was to be taken  over and shareholders were  given  options  as to how they 
wish to proceed. In the absence of any instructions from Mrs P, no action was taken, and 
around 1,029.95 Euros  based on an offer of 0.105  Euros per share  wasnt realised. At 
the time it wasnt clear  to Mrs P or her investment manager.  
In 2010, Mrs P gifted  the portfolio to Mrs S (and her sister), and Mrs S received the 
Thirdforce shares which had no value.  But it wasnt until 2018, when Mr S was preparing  his 
and Mrs Ss tax returns  and looked at whether they could register any losses  that this 
issue came  to light. 
So in summary the complaint relates  to investments that were managed by Barclays, now in 
Mrs Ss name which used to be owned by Mrs P. And because the portfolio was operated  on 
an execution only basis, no action was taken and Mrs P lost the value of her shares. 
Mrs S is adamant that she had no idea that the portfolio had been converted to execution  
only and doesnt  understand  why the no action  would have been an option in any case  
given the liquidation position  of the Thirdforce  shares. 
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. In short, it said:
Mrs P invested with Barclays through its Discretionary AIM Portfolio Service.  
On 18 February 2009, it wrote  to Mrs P to inform her that it took the decision to close 
the service with effect from 20 April 2009. Her options were to:
oTransfer the AIM holdings to another investment manager.
oLiquidate the AIM portfolio. 
oHold the underlying stocks  on a non-managed  basis (either by transferring the 
stock into her own name, or Barclays holding the shares  on her behalf 
through its execution  only service).  
Because it didnt  hear back from Mrs P, it wrote  to her again  on 23 March 2009, and 
said if it didnt receive  a response  by 20 April 2009 itd automatically  transfer  her 
holdings to its execution only service. 
Ref: DRN06505372It also made clear that itd cease active management of those assets and investment 
decisions would be the sole responsibility of Mrs P from that point onwards. As it 
didnt hear back this is what happened. 
Having reviewed its terms and conditions from 2009 in respect  of corporate actions 
where the assets are held under execution only service, it said it wasnt responsible  
for dealing with such matters and wasnt  obliged  to seek  clarification. And that it 
deals with such corporate actions at its absolute  discretion.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Barclays had made  sufficient attempts to try and inform Mrs P of the changes  that it 
was making. 
It wrote to her twice direct to her home address and once to her adviser  who worked 
with Barclays at the time. 
The letters made clear  the options Mrs P had available to her, including the default  
position if it didnt  hear back from her. 
Theres nothing to suggest that the letters werent sent by Barclays.  But it cant  be 
liable for any failings by the postal service. 
But as a result of Barclays not receiving a response the service  was transferred to 
execution only in 20 April 2009. 
Its terms and conditions  make  clear that the transactions in the circumstances are 
the sole responsibility of the client and no advice can be given. And in relation to any 
corporate actions  it said:
oIf your Assets  are held under Advisory Service or Execution-only Dealing 
Service, we will not be responsible for dealing with any of these matters,  
although we will be entitled  (at our absolute discretion)  to obtain your 
instructions. We will not seek your instructions in respect of any voting rights, 
nor will we seek to exercise such voting rights. Where we do seek  your 
instructions, then, if we do not receive  your instructions within  the time stated 
by us, we will take no action. 
Barclays maintains that it had no responsibility in managing the announcement by 
Thirdforce, even if a client had a managed  portfolio. And especially with no instructions it 
would take no action. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view.  In short he said he feels  Barclays  is hiding 
behind its terms and conditions. He doesnt  feel the option to do nothing was the correct  
thing to do. He maintains its unacceptable the way Mrs P given her age and circumstances 
was treated.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN06505373On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite  what Mr S says, Im not satisfied that 
Barclays has behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Ss strength of feeling about  this matter. 
Mr S on her behalf has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However,  I hope Mrs S wont take the fact my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central  issues, and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr S and Barclays,  and reach what I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
  
It seems  to me that the portfolio was initially managed until  owing to a change  in strategy  
it became execution only. 
But Im satisfied its a matter for Barclays  in the exercise of its legitimate commercial  
judgement  how it runs its business. Its not for us to tell it how to do this. And Im satisfied 
that Barclays does  have an absolute discretion regarding how it deals with such matters. 
In this instance the change was a change in the terms of business  it wasnt  something that 
its customers had agreed  to at the outset  so Barclays was obliged to notify Mrs P of these 
changes.
 
However, Im not persuaded that it was obliged to seek Mrs P vote or consent  before 
deciding to go ahead with its proposed course  of action.  And I dont blame it for not doing so.  
I appreciate Mrs S thought that Barclays  wouldnt make any decisions without seeking her or 
Mrs Ps instructions, but I dont think this is how it works. 
On balance Im satisfied that Barclays made  reasonable attempts to contact and notify Mrs P 
of changes to its terms and conditions, and to seek her instructions  (as suggested by Mrs S) 
about what she wanted to do in the future. 
I note on 18 February 2009 Barclays first wrote to Mrs P notifying her of its decision to close  
the AIM Portfolio management  service.  
In my opinion the letters  made reasonably clear the options that were  available to Mrs P and 
I dont think it had to do anymore.      
I note a second letter was sent on 23 March 2019 reiterating what it had said earlier.  When  it 
didnt hear back from Mrs P  having  sent two letters  it sent a third letter to Mrs Ps 
financial adviser knowing he was the relationship manager, thereby giving her ample  
opportunity to respond. 
Ref: DRN06505374At this stage no action  probably couldve been  avoided but its unclear what  happened to 
the third letter  or why it wasnt  responded to as requested. Unlike Mrs Ps residence,  Im not 
aware of any issues with this address. 
This might be the reason  why Mrs P was offered £500 compensation by the investment 
manager whose  was still investigating  whether or not the Thirdforce shares  could still be 
sold. But this isnt something thats affected my decision so far as the complaint against 
Barclays is concerned.  
Im satisfied Barclays made abundantly clear the default position  in case  Mrs P didnt 
respond, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.  
Im aware that the letters were going to Mrs Ps old address that Barclays  had on file, and 
that shed moved  out in 2009.  But I also understand that it was arranged so that all her 
letters would be forwarded to her new address with her other daughter. Ive no reason to 
think that isnt what  happened.  I note there were occasional checks to the old address  
which wasnt sold until 2011   to collect any letters that got delivered. So I agree with Mr S 
that any letters sent to Mrs P shouldve been  received.    
And I appreciate Mrs S says that if Mrs P had received the letter  she wouldve responded 
immediately, which again suggests its possible some of her letters may have gone astray. 
But even if the letters went missing  and I acknowledge that letters can sometimes  go 
missing in the post  Im unable  to hold Barclays responsible for the actions of a third party 
postal service. But Im also unable to accept that on a balance  of probabilities not one single 
letter wouldve  been  received, either by her or her relationship  manager.  
I note Mrs S feels  that Barclays shouldve contacted her or Mrs P directly as there were  open 
channels of ongoing dialogue  at the time. And I appreciate the comment Mrs S makes about  
the lack of joined up thinking.  But on balance I dont  think I can blame  Barclays for not 
contacting her directly.  I understand that Mrs P was elderly and probably had issues with her 
sight but Ive not seen  anything to suggest  this was specifically flagged up with Barclays as a 
reason why it should contact her direct rather  than through the post. 
I hope Mrs S will appreciate that an organisation that is the size of Barclays  has to follow a 
particular process to ensure that it operates  effectively and with fairness and equality 
amongst all its customers. Notwithstanding Mrs Ps age and circumstances, without  any 
issues being flagged  up, I dont it wouldve been practicable for Barclays  to call all of its 
customers that were in a similar position  to Mrs P. 
But so far as Barclays actions were  concerned,  Im afraid I dont think  I can say that it was 
wrong, not to sell the shares following its position  as made clear in the letters it sent. Even  if 
it wanted to, there was no way for it to know that this is what  Mrs P mightve wanted.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that Barclays hasnt 
communicated reasonably in this instance. I appreciate it communicated  with Mrs S soon 
after about a different  issue so I cant blame  it for not also raising  this issue at the time.   
I appreciate Mrs S will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants  to hear. Whilst I appreciate  her 
frustration, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything.   
Ref: DRN06505375On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0650537