K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Abbey) mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in connection with a 
mortgage in 2005. The policy was taken  out during a face-to-face  meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. In brief, he explained that Mrs P suffered from various 
medical conditions  when she took out the policy. And she wouldnt  have  been  able to claim 
for any accident or sickness  resulting  from those conditions. He didnt think  Santander 
should have recommended  the PPI to Mrs P without pointing this out to her. And he didnt  
think Mrs P would have taken the policy  out if it had done so. So the adjudicator  said that 
Santander should put Mrs P back in the position  shed have been  in if she hadnt  taken out 
the PPI policy. And it should calculate the redress using our usual approach.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs P. That means it had a responsibility to make sure 
that the policy was suitable for her. Mrs Ps told us that she suffered from several long-term 
medical conditions  when she took the policy out. One of them, in particular, had the potential 
to lead to other serious conditions. Mrs P wouldnt  have been able to make a successful 
claim under the policy for time off work due to any illness which  arose from a condition  she 
had when she took the policy out.
Santanders provided a copy of the High level needs analysis which  its advisor completed 
at the meeting with Mrs P. It includes a section about PPI. It notes that Mrs P told the adviser 
that if she became  involuntarily unemployed, shed be able to pay her monthly mortgage 
payments. But if she was unable to work through accident or sickness, shed be unable  to 
pay her mortgage and related bills. So Mrs P chose to take PPI cover for accident  and 
sickness only.
Santander says that any pre-existing medical conditions,  and the exclusions surrounding 
those conditions, would have been  discussed  at the point  of sale. But the paperwork its 
provided contains no indication that the adviser  asked  Mrs P whether she had any existing 
medical conditions,  or that he pointed out to her that she wouldnt be able to make  a 
successful claim  for any illness arising from any existing condition.  On balance, Im not 
persuaded that Santander adequately explored the suitability  of the policy  for Mrs P, in her 
particular circumstances.
Ref: DRN01723142Mrs P specifically chose to take cover to protect her mortgage payments if she was off sick. 
So it looks  as if she was particularly concerned  to make  sure that her mortgage payments 
would be protected  if she was unable to work due to illness.  The most potentially  serious  of 
Mrs Ps medical conditions had only been  diagnosed around two years  before she took the 
policy out. And even  if she hadnt  had any time off work for the conditions at the time of sale, 
I think its likely that shed  have been  conscious  that she might need  to take time off for them 
in the future.
I dont think Santander  should have recommended the policy  to Mrs P without asking her 
about any existing  medical conditions, and drawing her attention to the restrictions  on 
claiming for them. And Im not convinced, on balance, that shed have taken  the cover if it 
had done so.
putting things right
Santander should put Mrs P in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. It 
should:
Pay Mrs P the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Santander UK Plc to put things  right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0172314