K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a monthly premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2004  when he applied for a mortgage.
background
Mr E said he did not take out PPI; there was nothing signed  by him; and he declined PPI on 
his mortgage application. He says he didnt need PPI or require it. He said the PPI had been 
added without his knowledge or consent. So he concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator rejected  the complaint. Mr E disagreed with our adjudicators  view and 
asked for the matter  to be looked  at again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I first looked  at whether it was made clear to Mr E that the policy  was an optional product 
because Mr E said he had declined PPI and Nationwide  could not prove he signed for it.
Nationwide said the mortgage application form was completed by one of their 
representatives with Mr E seated with them. I have looked at the mortgage  application  very 
carefully and can see that Mr E specifically declined to buy PPI on 25 March 2004. However, 
Nationwide also produced part of a separate PPI application form. It is undated, but Mr Es 
signature is on the bottom of the form requesting  PPI. And Nationwide  also produced  a 
sample of the full PPI application  form which it says Mr E would have signed at the time of 
the sale.
As Mr E at first declined to buy PPI  I think it was clear to him that PPI was an optional 
product. So having seen  his signature  on part of another form requesting PPI to be added to 
his mortgage account, I think  he chose to have it. And I think  his signature shows he was 
aware that PPI was being added to his mortgage with his full knowledge and consent. So I 
dont think this is a reason  to uphold the complaint.
Both Mr E and Nationwide  agree this was a non- advised sale, so it didnt have to check  if 
the policy was suitable for Mr E. But Mr E had to make that decision for himself. So I looked 
at his finances at the time to see if he would have found the policy useful. 
I noted Mr E said he had good employee  benefits  and a years salary  in savings  although 
he didnt say exactly how much he had in savings and didnt produce any documents  to 
prove it. The PPI could have paid out for a maximum  of 12 months on a successful claim, 
leaving his employee  benefits and savings  (however much he had) for other expenses. So I 
think this would have  been a useful  benefit  for him because Mr E borrowed funds against a 
large and long-term  financial  commitment, which was secured on his home.  I think having 
Ref: DRN05304512the security that the mortgage repayments would be paid if he was unemployed would have 
been important  to him. So I do think  he could  have found the PPI policy  useful.
Nationwide should  have given Mr E enough information which was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so he could make his own decision  about it.
Nationwide said it gave  Mr E a PPI leaflet  which  explained what  PPI was, its cost and the 
benefits of it. It may also be that something was said during the meeting  about the cost and 
benefits of the policy,  and looking at everything  Ive been given, it may be that information  
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But having  decided Mr E chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. It also looks like the policy was affordable. And  for the reasons Ive explained above 
- it looks  like the policy would have been useful  for him if something went  wrong.  So I dont 
think more detailed cost and benefits information would have put him off from buying PPI.
I also noted Mr E wasnt affected  by the main exclusions and limitations  in the PPI policy  - so 
I dont think he would  have changed  his mind  about  PPI if hed got more  detailed information 
about them. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy was shown as optional,  I think it could have 
been of benefit to him and I think he was given enough information  about the PPI to make  a 
decision about it. So I am not going to uphold this complaint.
All of which means  Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr E, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr E has said - including what he has said about the policy  
being mis-sold. But these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Ref: DRN05304513Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0530451