K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs P says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs P 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of the store  card application form Mrs P saw and signed which included 
a section for PPI. In this section Mrs P signed  to agree to the cover - but there is nothing 
here to indicate  that she had to sign in this section, so I think Mrs P wouldve known she 
couldve left this section  blank  if she didnt want the PPI. This signature is also separate 
and additional  to her signature  to agree to the store card.
So based  on this evidence I think FICL  made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand if she cant 
remember this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if the policy was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Mrs P says she wasnt given enough information about the policy.  And I think  its 
possible the information FICL gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the policy would have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs P says the PPI was of no use to her because she had sufficient  employee  sick pay 
and also had some  savings at the time.  However,  for £1.00 per £100  of the outstanding 
monthly balance  the PPI wouldve  paid out up to 15% of Mrs Ps outstanding monthly 
balance, until she returned  to work  or the outstanding balance  had been paid off. This 
wouldve paid out in addition to the PPI and for longer than Mrs Ps full sick pay wouldve 
lasted her. And so these funds couldve been  used  for other  expenses  in the event she 
was suddenly unable  to work.
Ref: DRN08223622So overall I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs P and I dont think  better 
information about the cost and benefit of the policy wouldve  changed her decision to 
take out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0822362