K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited told him he owed arrears 
for two life assurance  policy  premiums, when in fact he only owed one. And, when he lodged 
a complaint about the incorrect letter, L&G didnt properly deal with his concerns because it 
failed to contact  him as promised. 
Mr T says he ought to be compensated for the inconvenience he has been caused, 
particularly as he has several disabling conditions which  are exacerbated by unnecessary 
stress.  
background
L&G wrote to Mr T on 27 April 2019 because it had been unable to collect his monthly policy 
premium on 23 April.
Mr T called L&G on 7 May 2019 to explain his direct debit was cancelled by mistake.  He also 
told L&G he wished to lodge a complaint. It had told him that he was £40 in arrears for 
premium payments, and that was untrue. In fact, he had missed just one payment of £20. 
Mr T called L&G again  the following day. This time he spoke  to an early  resolution complaint 
handler. He reset his cancelled direct debit  so that two payments totalling £40 would be 
collected on 6 June 2019. It was confirmed that the premium payments would then revert  to 
the 23rd of each month thereafter. The complaint handler offered Mr T £25 for the 
inconvenience he had been caused  by the wording  in the letter. Mr T refused and asked for 
£50. As the complaint handler disagreed, the matter was then treated as a full complaint.  
On 11 May 2019, Mr T called L&G again.  He was informed the complaint was awaiting 
allocation. He said he was unhappy that the previous complaint handler had not issued a 
written summary to him. 
Mr T called L&G again  on 14 and 24 May 2019 asking about his complaint, but it had not yet 
been assigned  to a complaints consultant. 
On 18 June 2019, an L&G complaints consultant  called Mr T. By this time, Mr T said he 
should be paid £125 compensation because of the additional time, cost and upset of 
pursuing the complaint. He also felt that L&G had discriminated  against him, because he had 
a number of health conditions that are disabilities. 
The consultant offered  to increase the payment to £75 but no further. Mr T refused. 
A final response letter was issued to Mr T the same  day. It said L&G understood how the 
automated unpaid premium letter could be misleading. It had added  the missed premium to 
the next premium  because it has a policy of confirming the next payment due. So whilst the 
total of £40 was correct,  L&G agreed  that at the date of the letter Mr T had only been £20 in 
arrears. It said it would look to improve the wording  of its automated letters  in future  to make 
the difference between arrears and upcoming premiums clearer.
L&G also recognised it did not call Mr T back when it had said it would do so, which was not 
acceptable. It did not, however, agree that Mr T had been discriminated  against. Nor had it 
acted unfairly when completing  a full investigation  and final response within  eight weeks  of 
Ref: DRN00833242the complaint.  L&G reiterated that it felt the offer of £75 was appropriate  in the 
circumstances. 
Mr T remained unhappy. He brought the complaint to this service, noting that in another 
complaint he had been offered £200. He reiterated  that he didnt believe £75 to be sufficient 
compensation for L&Gs failings. 
An investigator reviewed  the complaint. Though she appreciated how Mr T felt about the 
matter, she believed that £75 was a fair offer in the circumstances. She did not therefore  
believe Mr Ts complaint should succeed. 
Mr T said he didnt  agree.  He felt the offer did not properly  account for the time that he had 
been kept waiting by L&G, despite it having  promised to contact  him. He also did not think  
the award properly  reflected the impact on him, as a disabled consumer.  
In addition, Mr T spoke with an ombudsman manager about his complaint. He said that he 
felt the Financial Ombudsman Service  was unwilling to impose  time limits on businesses, yet 
expected consumers to comply.  That was because L&G took over two months  to supply  its 
evidence to this service when asked by our investigator. The ombudsman manager  
explained that if L&G had failed to supply its evidence,  the investigator would have reached 
her conclusions without  waiting any further. Mr T said he accepted that explanation. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr T was unhappy to be told he owed two policy premiums, when in fact 
another premium  was not due until 23 May 2019.  His principal issue  of complaint is with L&G 
asking for more money than it is due. 
However, I also must be fair to both parties in a complaint. In order to maintain his policy,  Mr 
T had to pay his policy premiums as they become due each month.  He explained to the 
complaints handler  on 8 May 2019  how he inadvertently cancelled  his direct debit. That 
meant the collection did not happen  on 23 April and an automated arrears letter was 
generated for Mr T. L&G was not at fault for the missed  premium, and it rightly wrote to Mr T 
to notify him about it.  
L&G has explained that it cannot be sure when a policyholder may pay a missed premium. It 
says that direct debit  instructions can take up to three weeks  with a policyholders bank. So it 
issues arrears  letters  based  on a second premium  being due because  that is likely  by the 
time a direct  debit is reset. And it is what happened in Mr Ts case.  The missed premium  and 
the next premium  were  actually both taken on 6 June  2019, after which normal  monthly 
payments reverted to the original collection date of the 23rd of each month.   
I do doubt Mr Ts strength  of feeling that he found  the letter misleading, and neither does 
L&G. It says it will work  on the way it words its automated  arrears  letters  to ensure they are 
clearer in the future.  But, when I consider the impact  of this error, along with the other issues  
Mr T has raised,  I do not believe that I should make  an award  in excess of the £75 already 
offered by L&G.  
Ref: DRN00833243I know Mr T feels that there is inconsistency because in a differing  complaint about another  
of his L&G policies,  he was offered £200  in compensation. But no two complaints are 
factually identical.  Its my role to look at the evidence of this complaint  and decide  1) if L&G 
did anything wrong  and 2) what the appropriate redress  should  be to put matters  right.
Within one working day of its first communication with Mr T, L&G had apologised for its 
unclear wording and offered £25 in compensation. I believe that is a fair resolution  to the 
misunderstanding, given  L&G was not responsible for the cancelled  direct debit but Mr T did 
have to make extra  telephone calls than merely the one call to reinstate the payment. 
The remaining  issues  Mr T experienced thereafter were his concerns  over the time L&G took 
to deal with his complaint, which again led to him having to chase  L&G. He feels  there is no 
accountability for businesses in dealing  with complaints promptly.  
Though I accept Mr Ts point that his complaint  was a simple matter that could have been 
resolved very quickly, I believe that L&G did do so when it spoke with him on 8 May. Once 
Mr T (as was his right)  did not accept the early proposed resolution, the matter was then 
placed with a differing department for a final response to be issued within  eight weeks.  
L&G has acted in accordance with the DISP rules  in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook as that sets out that a Respondent must  issue  its final response letter within the 
eight week timeframe of receipt of the complaint. It provided a response some six weeks 
later, giving the required referral rights to this service. Though Mr T continued to contact both 
L&G and this service  between the complaint and the final complaint response,  it was not 
because L&G had done anything else wrong or further delayed matters. Mr T had been told 
of the expected timescale. 
This service is not a court,  and we do not make orders about breaches of the Equality Act 
2010. However, I can consider whether a business  has acted in an unfair  or discriminatory 
way in any compensation I may award. I realise Mr T is poorly; I know  he wished for things 
to be dealt with as expediently  as possible. But I dont consider L&G to have treated Mr T 
less favourably because of his disabilities  or that it failed  to adjust its practices or procedures 
for him. 
The cause for the further time taken  in the complaint was because a final response and full 
investigation was required. I can see it was a source of frustration for Mr T, but that is 
inherent in having to express dissatisfaction about  a business or service  and waiting for a 
complete answer.  L&G did increase its offer by a further £50 to reflect the time and upset  Mr 
T had felt. Notwithstanding Mr T understandably wishes to avoid stress, Ive not seen any 
evidence that L&G ought to have  treated  this matter as urgent or otherwise. 
It follows that I believe the offer L&G made  before the complaint was brought here to be 
sufficient compensation  for the issues Mr T experienced. It was in line with the types of 
awards made for moderate inconvenience of this nature. I trust L&G will now arrange to pay 
Mr T the £75, as offered.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint nor do I make  any award. Thats  because  I believe L&G 
already proposed a reasonable settlement to the inconvenience  Mr T was caused  before the 
matter was pursued as this complaint  before me. 
Ref: DRN00833244Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0083324