K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained through Mrs R that Canada Life Limited has turned down his claim 
for critical  illness benefit under a group critical illness policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 16 April 2019. In this, I explained  why I thought  
Canada Life was entitled to turn down Mr Rs claim. Ive included a copy  of this at the end of 
this final decision and it forms part of it. I gave both parties until 30 April to respond to my 
provisional decision with further comments and evidence.
Canada Life has responded to say it has nothing further to add. Mrs R has responded on 
behalf of Mr R to say she is disappointed with my provisional decision.  But she hasnt  
provided any new comments or evidence on my provisional finding that Canada Life was 
entitled to turn down Mr Rs claim.  Mrs R has asked why I havent  considered  the conduct of 
the intermediary who sold the policy in my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither Canada  Life nor Mr and Mrs R have provided any further comments on my 
provisional finding that Canada Life was entitled to decline Mr Rs claim, I see no reason to 
alter the view I set out in my provisional  decision  on this point. This means,  I still dont think  
Canada life is obliged  to settle  Mr Rs claim under the terms of the policy  in place at the time 
of his heart attack.  Therefore,  it follows that I still dont think  it would produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mr Rs complaint if I were to require Canada Life to meet his claim. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mr R is covered  under his employers group critical 
illness scheme and the policy was arranged  by an independent intermediary. Canada Life 
has confirmed the intermediary was acting as an independent financial adviser for Mr Rs 
employer when it arranged the policy. I accept this. And this means  its not appropriate for 
me to comment on the intermediarys actions in this decision, as I dont think these are 
Canada Lifes responsibility. 
As, I also explained, Im satisfied Canada Life fulfilled its obligations when the policy was 
originally set up and when it was subsequently renewed. This means I think its entitled to 
rely on the terms and conditions that were in place from June 2016 when dealing  with Mr Rs 
claim under the policy. I explained in my provisional  decision  why these mean Mr R doesnt 
have a valid claim under the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision dated 16 April 2019  and above,  Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019. 
Ref: DRN00106482Robert Short
ombudsman
My provisional decision dated 16 April  2019
complaint
Mr R has complained through Mrs R that Canada  Life Limited has turned down his claim for critical 
illness benefit under a group critical illness policy.
background
Mr R joined his employer in 2015 and one of the benefits he received was to be covered  under  
its group critical  illness  scheme. The policy provided under this scheme by Canada Life pays 
Ref: DRN00106483out if the members  of the scheme suffer  one of a list of serious illnesses. The policy  excludes 
claims for these illnesses in certain circumstances.
The policy was arranged by an insurance  intermediary. Mrs R has explained  that Mr R was never  
provided with the policy terms  and conditions, so didnt fully understand what cover  was provided.
Mr R had a heart attack in November 2016. He was admitted to hospital  and had a procedure to 
resolve the problem with his heart.  Sadly, he also suffered a brain  injury linked to the heart attack.  
Mrs R put in a claim under the policy on Mr Rs behalf. Canada Life turned down Mr Rs claim on the 
basis the policy doesnt cover heart attacks  if the claimant  has suffered from certain related  
conditions prior to joining the scheme. The condition  in Mr Rs case was high blood pressure. 
Canada Life has offered  some  support  to Mr R and an ex gratia  payment, but this payment is very 
small compared to the amount that would be due to Mr R if his claim  was successful.
Mrs R doesnt agree  with Canada Lifes decision.  She thinks  it should pay the claim because the 
evidence suggests  there wasnt a connection  between  Mr Rs high blood  pressure and his heart 
attack. Mrs R has also pointed out that because Mr R wasnt provided with a copy  of the policy  
documents he had no certainty of contract.  And shes also said he wasnt in a position  to make an 
informed decision on whether the cover  provided  under the policy was right for him. She has 
suggested that if hed understood  the extent of the cover, hed have arranged a different policy  with 
wider cover.
Mrs R has also mentioned  shes concerned that Canada  Life didnt communicate  its final decision on 
Mr Rs claim to her and Mr R and shared medical  information about him with the intermediary.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint and suggested to Canada  Life that it would be 
fair and reasonable for it meet Mr Rs claim  because it was unlikely his heart attack was linked to his 
high blood pressure.
Canada Life didnt agree with the investigator. It argued there does not need to be a link 
between Mr Rs high blood pressure and his heart attack for them to rely on the related  
condition exclusion to turn down his claim.
The complaint was then passed to one of my colleagues.  She reviewed it and felt Canada Life was 
entitled to turn down Mr Rs claim. She asked the investigator to share  her thoughts with Mrs R for 
comment. Mrs R has come  back with her further comments  and some further medical evidence.  My 
colleague has now moved on to another role and the case has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive provisionally decided not to 
uphold it.
Firstly, Id like to say I realise how difficult this whole  episode has been for Mr and Mrs R and the 
importance of the claim to them. But I can only uphold  Mr Rs complaint if I think  making  Canada Life 
pay his claim is the fair and reasonable outcome. Im afraid I dont think it is and I will explain why.
Ill deal first with the sale of the policy and Mrs Rs point that Mr R was never provided with the 
policy terms and conditions.
As I understand it, the policy was arranged by an insurance intermediary for Mr Rs employer.  As 
far as I can see, Canada Life provided  all the original policy documentation to this intermediary. It 
also provided  it with various updates.  It was the intermediarys responsibility  to pass this 
Ref: DRN00106484information on to its client  Mr Rs employer.  It also needed to make sure his employer was aware  
of the key features, limitations  and exclusions. It was
Mr Rs employers responsibility to make sure he had all the information he needed as a 
member of the scheme.
None of this was Canada  Lifes responsibility.  So, as long as Canada Life provided policy  
documentation that was clear, fair and not misleading to the intermediary it fulfilled its obligations. 
And, it is entitled to rely on the relevant policy wording to deal with any claim  it receives from an 
individual covered  by the policy.
Canada Life has provided a copy of an email to the intermediary when  it gave the quotation for the 
policy in 2014, prior to Mr Rs employers group critical  illness scheme  starting.  And its also 
provided a copy of the technical guide setting out the full extent  of the covers available and the 
quotation itself.
The quotation itself stated the premium payable  by the policyholder  Mr Rs employer. And it stated 
the employee  cover as a flat amount of £500,000. It also stated the illnesses covered  as core 
illnesses excluding total permanent disability. And, Canada Life provided  a technical guide with it 
that listed  what the core illnesses  were  and the exclusions that applied  to claims for them.
Ive seen a copy of an email  from Canada Life to the intermediary from August 2014 confirming  the 
cover is in place based on the quotation provided. This specifically mentioned cover  was for core 
illness only.  This email  attached a copy of the Policy Particulars and Policy  Conditions  and this 
included the Group  Critical Illness Policy Conditions and web link to the policy  information.
Ive also seen  the email  exchange between the intermediary and Canada Life confirming
Mr R had joined the scheme on 1 September 2015.
Therefore, based on the evidence Canada  Life has provided, Im satisfied  it did provide all the 
original policy documents setting out the extent of the cover  to the intermediary. Its explained  
there was an update to the policy at renewal in June 2016 and the policy wording  effective from 
this date was provided to the intermediary in May 2017. This is the one Canada  Life has said 
applied at the time of Mr Rs heart attack and claim. Its advised me that these terms were 
available prior to this on their website, so both the intermediary and Mr Rs employer  had access 
to them. This means Im satisfied Canada  Life is entitled to rely on them  in respect of Mr Rs claim.
As Ive already mentioned,  the policy Mr R is covered under only covers  core illnesses  and these 
are listed in the Group Critical Illness Policy Conditions  that applied  from June 2016.  These 
include Heart attack of a specified severity and this is defined as follows:
Death of heart  muscle,  due to inadequate blood supply that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
     typical clinical symptoms (for example, characteristic chest pain)
     new characteristic electrocardiographic changes.
the characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes or Troponins  recorded  at the following levels  or 
higher
 Troponin  T > 200 ng/L (0.2ng/ml or 0.2 ug/L)
 Troponin I > 500 ng/L (0.5 ng/ml or 0.5 ug/L)
The evidence  must show a definite  acute myocardial  infarction
Note For the above definition, the following are not covered:
 other acute coronary  syndromes,
 angina without myocardial infarction
Ref: DRN00106485This is in table format and next to it theres a heading which states   Related  conditions which 
will be considered in the application of the exclusion shown in Section 4.1.2  and below this the 
conditions listed include  Any blood  pressure  or cholesterol readings  above those set out in 
the cardiovascular risk table at the end of the section.
The cardiovascular table referred to states  the following:
Age bands (at date of reading) Up to 50 51 - 60 61 and over
Blood pressure 160/90 170/95 175/95
Section 4 1 2 of the policy under the heading Related conditions states the following:
4 1 2 1 Insured Illnesses where a related conditions  exclusion is applied for a period of 2 years
No benefit will be payable for any Insured Illness not detailed in section 4.1.2.1 where
any related  condition (see tables in Section 2 - What Is covered and Section 3 - Optional 
additional cover), was present at any time prior to
     the Insured person  or childs inclusion  in this Policy,  or
the Insured  person or childs inclusion in a previous group  critical  illness policy  arranged by you 
or any other employer in connection  with the members employment,  if earlier, or
     the date of inclusion  of the Insured  Illness in the Policy , if later
The related  conditions exclusion will not be applied if the Insured  Illness  occurs 2 or more years 
following any of the dates listed above
A Related condition  is defined in the policy  definitions section as follows:
 a medical condition described in Section 2 - What Is covered and Section 3  Optional 
additional cover  which is either directly or indirectly associated with, or is likely to have led to the 
occurrence of an Insured  Illness 
Ive looked at the medical evidence provided  including the most recent evidence provided by Mrs R. 
And I appreciate she doesnt  think Mr Rs heart attack  was related to his high blood pressure.  That 
may be the case. But, I dont think  its necessary for Canada Life to show that it was in Mr Rs 
circumstances. This is because  the policy  wording  specifically  states that it will not pay claims for 
insured illnesses  if a related  condition was present  at any time prior to the insured persons  inclusion 
in the policy. And, it defines  high blood pressure above  the readings shown in the table as a related 
condition for heart  attacks. Mr R was between 51 and 60 when he took out the policy. He had a 
readings of 154/100 on 30 September 2013 and 178/100 on 6 March 2015. These are above the limits 
set out in the abovementioned table. And before the policy started. Had Mr R had the policy  for two 
years he would have then qualified for cover for a heart attack. But, the point he had his heart attack 
was within two years of the policy starting.
I appreciate Mrs R feels very strongly thats its unfair for Canada  Life to reject Mr Rs claim  when it 
cant show his high blood pressure  was linked to his heart attack.  But group policies like the one Mr R 
is covered under arent underwritten.  What this means is that the people insured under  them  dont 
have to complete an application form for the insurance company to consider and decide what cover it 
is willing  to offer. Instead, the insurer  uses the policy  wording to exclude  certain things. This means  
as long as the policy wording is clear on what is excluded  I think  its fair and reasonable for Canada 
Life to exclude claims for heart  attacks where the insured person has had high blood  pressure above 
levels set out in the policy  prior to them  being covered under it.
Ref: DRN00106486I think its worth me saying that if Mr R had taken out a personal policy and filled in an application 
form and provided  the blood pressure readings  hed had, an insurer, such  as Canada Life, could then 
have excluded cover  for heart  attacks  for two years if it had wanted to do so. Thats because an 
insurer is entitled to determine what level of risk it is willing to accept  when offering insurance.
And Im satisfied the policy wording (as set out above) is clear and that it means Canada Life is 
entitled to decline Mr Rs claim  for his heart attack. And  as Ive already explained, all Canada life had 
to do was make sure the policy wording was available to the intermediary who arranged the policy. 
And  having  done this  it is entitled  to rely on it.
Mrs R has also queried why Mr R claim  is not covered under the core illness of Coronary artery 
bypass grafts  with surgery to divide the breast bone.  But Mr R didnt  have this procedure,  so theres  
no claim payable under this part of the policy  cover. Theres also cover under  additional illness for 
heart related issues. But the policy Mr R had doesnt include
cover for these additional illnesses. And  in any event  he didnt have any of the 
procedures listed according to the medical  information available.
Theres also no cover  under  the policy  for total permanent disablement. So, unfortunately,  if Mr R 
does meet the criteria for this due to his brain injury,  hes not entitled to the benefit payable under this 
section of cover.
I also appreciate Canada Life only originally corresponded with the intermediary  who arranged the 
policy about the claim.  And it didnt  let Mr and Mrs R know  about  their right to appeal the decision or 
their right to refer the complaint to us. This was unfortunate.  Although I can see why Canada Life 
would have thought the intermediary was keeping Mr and Mrs R informed. But, it really should have  
made sure Mr and Mrs R knew what was happening with the claim.
Canada Life also shouldnt have shared medical information about Mr R with the intermediary  
without Mr and Mrs Rs permission. But, if this is a data breach Mr R can complain to the 
Information Commissioners office about it, as this organisation is more  appropriate for this sort of 
issue. Neither of these  things  affects Canada  Lifes right to turn down Mr Rs claim.
In summary,  Im satisfied that Mr R doesnt have a valid claim under the group policy  with his employer 
for his heart attack, because  he had the clearly  defined related condition of high blood pressure  before 
the policy  started. And hed not been covered by the policy for two years  at the point he had his heart 
attack. And this means that, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Rs very difficult  situation,  I dont think 
it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint if I were to require  Canada Life to 
meet his claim.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0010648