K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mrs A in 1998. The policy  was taken out 
when Mrs A was applying for a further advance  on a mortgage shed taken out in 1997. It 
provided cover if she couldnt  work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs As needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mrs A the information  she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mrs 
A is worse off as a result.  That is, would she have done something different   such as not 
taking out the policy   if there hadnt been  any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs A says she didnt know the PPI had been  added to her account,  and that Lloyds didnt 
give her a proper choice about  buying  the cover. Ive noted everything  Mrs A has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mrs A and Lloyds 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these  events took place over twenty  years  
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
Ive also looked  at the paperwork  that was completed at the time. Mrs A had to complete a 
separate application form to apply for the PPI. So I think she wouldve realised it was a 
different product to the additional borrowing she was applying for.
In addition, Mrs As original mortgage  had been arranged the previous year. So I think Mrs A 
wouldve known that buying the PPI wasnt a condition of arranging the borrowing. 
Ref: DRN05101082So without anything  else to support  what Mrs A has told me, I havent  been able to safely 
conclude that Lloyds didnt make her aware  that the policy  was optional.
Lloyds accepts that it advised Mrs A to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mrs A was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mrs A says she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer  if she couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident.  But the policy  wouldve paid out in addition to her 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy  in 
place wouldve meant  Mrs A could use her employer benefits to pay for other 
expenses. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful  benefit  to her if she 
couldnt work because of sickness  or accident. 
- Mrs As PPI application suggests she may have been on a fixed-term contract when 
she took out the policy. But Mrs A has told us about the circumstances of her 
employment, and from what shes said I think its more  likely she was employed on a 
permanent contract.  This means Mrs A could have benefited from the full extent of 
the PPI cover.  So I dont think she needed better advice or information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mrs A before 
she agreed to buy it. But Mrs A took out the policy knowing  she would have to pay 
something for it. It seems  the policy was competitively  priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mrs A would  have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, I think its unlikely that Mrs A was affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I dont think  Mrs 
A would have made a different decision if better  information had been provided  overall, I 
think she would still have  taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0510108