K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained that TSB Bank  Plc hasnt sent him any statements on an account for a 
number of years, but theyve been  charging him overdraft fees for this period.
background 
Mr H had an account with LloydsTSB,  which  was transferred to TSB in 2013 when the two 
businesses separated. Mr H had actively used this account until August 2012 and when he 
stopped using the account it was overdrawn. Overdraft fees and interest  were  added to the 
balance, which has increased  the amount overdrawn  to over £1,000. This is still within 
Mr Hs agreed  overdraft  limit.
Mr H has complained that TSB didnt send any statements on the account  until September 
2018, and that they made no attempt  to contact him about his account. He doesnt  believe 
that he should be responsible for the overdrawn balance or any fees and charges. Following 
our involvement TSB offered to clear the additional interest and charges thatd been added 
since Mr H stopped using  his account   approximately £750.
Our adjudicator found that TSB had acted  reasonably. Shes seen that theyd sent Mr H 
statements to his registered address, which she felt had reasonably informed him of the 
balance of his account, and of the fees and charges that were being added. She hadnt seen 
anything to show that any of these statements were  returned. 
She also felt that Mr H was responsible for the original (August 2012) overdrawn balance of 
£257.58, and that TSBs  offer to write-off the remaining overdrawn balance (the fees and 
charges theyd applied) was fair in the circumstances. Because of this, she didnt think  TSB 
should do anything  more.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicator. He says he didnt live at the address TSB had for him, 
but his tenant  did. He says that neither he nor his tenant received any bank statements and 
he doesnt think its responsible banking to allow me to carry on being overdrawn and incur  
bank charges on an account  that had no activity on it for 8 years. Hes also said that hes 
still being charged interest and charges, and feels these should  have been frozen until his 
complaint had been resolved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen evidence  that TSB didnt have Mr Hs account set up for paperless  banking, and 
this means that physical  statements wouldve been sent out in the post.  Mr H didnt tell TSB 
about his change of address until September 2018  and Ive seen the statements that were  
sent to Mr Hs old address  before this date.  These  show the increasing overdrawn balance 
and the fees and charges  that were being  applied. Ive not seen anything to show that any of 
these statements were  returned to TSB as undelivered.  Mr H has said that hes received 
statements after September 2018.
Ref: DRN01231612Mr H was overdrawn on his account in August 2012 by £257.58. This was the last active  
transaction on his account. After this date,  all of the transactions were overdraft fees or 
interest. Ive seen nothing  to show that TSB couldnt  apply these charges and, because  Mr H 
has remained within his agreed  overdraft limit, I wouldnt  have expected TSB to have done  
anything more. 
I dont think TSB shouldve phoned Mr H about  his account, because  it was being conducted 
within the agreed overdraft limit. And TSB didnt have to freeze any charges once Mr H 
complained, as these  charges were being  applied in line with the terms and conditions of his 
account. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that Mr H shouldve been reasonably  aware of the balance  of his 
account and that hes responsible for the original £257.58 overdrawn amount. TSB have 
offered to waive the fees and charges that have been applied  since August 2012  which  I 
think is fair and reasonable. Its for Mr H to decide whether to accept this offer or not and I 
wont be asking TSB to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above the offer TSB Bank Plc has made  is fair and reasonable. It 
is up to Mr H to decide  to accept this offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0123161