K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Ageas Insurance limited (Ageas) has not paid out for some of 
their contents following  a claim on their holiday home insurance policy.
Ageas has used a third party  to administer the policy. But for ease anything the third party 
has said on behalf of Ageas  will be referred  to as Ageas.
background
Mr and Mrs J own a chalet, which is used as a holiday home. They  have the contents 
insured for £4,000. The holiday home is approximately  80-100 miles away from their main 
residence. 
On 16 October 2017 severe weather conditions damaged the roof of the chalet. 
Mr and Mrs J were notified  of the damage to their property  late the following day. Mr J 
travelled to the property on the 18 October  and reported the damage  to the insurer  Ageas.
Mr J removed some contents that he could  fit into his car and purchased tarpaulin and 
buckets to try and prevent any damage  to the rest of the contents. Ageas contractor carried  
out a temporary  repair to the roof to try and make it watertight.  Mr and Mrs J say there was 
no damage to their contents  at this time. However,  they say that due to Ageas delays and 
poor handling of the claim,  the contents of their holiday home  became damaged and need 
replacing. So they think Ageas should  pay the full amount for replacing the contents. The 
contents that were  damaged are worth around £8,116.
Ageas says it initially declined the claim because the contractor who did the temporary repair  
told it the damage was caused by wear and tear. Mr and Mrs J challenged this by getting 
their own roofing contractor  who said the cause was storm. Ageas appointed a loss 
adjuster and the claim was accepted. Ageas  say Mr and Mrs J were  underinsured so it 
settled the contents  claim based on its policy terms and conditions and what  was outlined  in 
the policy schedule  which is £4,000.  It also paid Mr and Mrs J £400  for the delays  and poor 
handling of the claim.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He thought if the items  had been  damaged  at the time 
of the storm then Ageas wouldve been  within its right to apply  the underinsurance  term of 
the policy to the contents that were  damaged.  But he said Ageas hadnt handled the claim 
effectively - causing delays and therefore damage to Mr and Mr Js contents. He felt Ageas 
couldve removed Mr and Mrs Js contents  much  sooner than it did. He felt Mr and Mrs J had 
tried to mitigate any loss by covering the large items  with tarpaulin. So he said in addition to 
what Ageas  had already paid to Mr and Mrs J he recommended it should pay:
£4,116 compensation for the remainder of the damaged contents
a further payment of £100 for the trouble  and upset   bringing the total trouble and 
upset payment for the whole  claim  to £500
8% simple interest per year on the original  £4,000 contents claim - to be paid from 
the date of claim, to the date of payment, to compensate Mr and Mrs J for the delay  
in providing the settlement
Mr and Mrs J accepted  our investigators  view.  Ageas agreed to the additional £100 for the 
trouble and upset  but didnt agree with the other  recommendations  made by our investigator. 
Ref: DRN01027912Because Ageas didnt agree the complaint  has been passed to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the insurance policy and schedule. Mr and Mrs J insured their contents  for 
£4,000 under the policy. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs J now realise that the contents were worth more  and both 
parties didnt dispute that the contents  were valued at £8,116  in total.  Ageas agreed  to settle 
the contents claim for the full sum insured. Under the policy  thats the most they can do. So I 
agree the claim  settlement of £4000 paid under the policy is reasonable. 
However, I have to consider if its fair and reasonable for Ageas to pay for the rest of the 
contents in the circumstances  of this case.  Mr and Mrs J say they have suffered a financial 
loss due to the poor handling and delays  Ageas took when handling their claim.  If I agree, I 
can ask Ageas to pay them compensation for that loss. 
Ageas has said it is the insured's responsibility  to ensure the initial  temporary repairs  is 
appropriate and they also have a responsibility  to mitigate any loss. In the event that 
Mr and Mrs J had concerns that the damage was worsening, they couldve taken it upon 
themselves to remove items of contents from property , albeit it appreciated the property is a 
considerable distance from their main residence.
Ive looked at what happened when  the claim was initially  made. Ageas appointed a 
contractor to visit the property, assess the damage  and conduct a temporary repair  in an 
attempt to prevent  any further damage. The contractor then reported  to Ageas that it was of 
the opinion that the main cause of the damage was wear and tear, rather  than something 
that would  be covered  under the policy.
Mr and Mrs J immediately disputed this and arranged for their own contractor to take a look.  
Ageas told Mr J, during  a phone call on 27 October, that as a decision had been made to 
decline the claim, it was now Mr and Mrs Js responsibility to prevent additional  damage. I 
can see Ageas received  Mr and Mrs Js contractors  report on 30 October  and Ageas 
accepted the claim on 3 November. So from what Ive seen  there was only one week from 
when Mr J was told it was his responsibility  to when  Ageas accepted  the claim. Once the 
claim was accepted, I think the responsibility  for the damage moved  back to Ageas. I think 
this is too short a period of time for the extent of damage that was caused to Mr and Mrs Js 
contents to have happened.
In addition to the time frame, Ive considered the photographs Mr and Mrs J provided - taken 
at the time the claim was reported to Ageas. These  show that most, if not all, of their 
contents are in good condition and certainly wouldnt  have needed replacing at this point in 
time. Ive also considered  the inspectors report from the visit that took place on
3 November. It says there is a small contents claim for the divan bed/mattress. 
I think this shows that at the time the claim was accepted by Ageas  there  wasnt  the extent 
of damage to Mr and Mrs Js contents  as Ageas  has suggested. The damage has clearly  
happened from when  the claim was accepted in November to March - when the contents  
were eventually removed  from the property. I think  that Ageas  had more  than enough  
Ref: DRN01027913opportunity to arrange for the removal of Mr and Mrs Js contents from the property, long 
before they had a chance to become  damaged beyond use. So I think Ageas should be 
paying compensation for the financial loss Mr and Mrs J have suffered from the loss of their 
contents, as had it managed this claim efficiently and pro-actively, the vast majority of 
Mr and Mrs Js contents wouldve been  salvageable.  
Had all of the damage to the contents  been  caused by the initial storm event, I would be 
satisfied that paying  the sum insured was a reasonable way of resolving this complaint. 
However, this isnt the case   and I think Mr and Mrs J did their best to mitigate  any claim by 
covering their belongings  with tarpaulin, I have also considered that this is a holiday home 
and they were unable to inspect the property regularly so wouldnt be aware that their 
contents were being damaged to such extent.  Mr and Mrs J were  not responsible for the 
delays in getting the property repaired and the subsequent damage to their contents. 
I therefore direct Ageas  to pay Mr and Mrs J £4,116  for the financial loss caused by Ageas 
delays and not removing the contents.  Both parties have agreed to our investigators 
recommendation of £500 compensation and I too think that is fair and reasonable.  
However, there was a delay in Ageas providing  the £4000 settlement, it wasnt  paid until 
October 2018. I think 8% simple interest per year should be applied  from the date of claim, 
to the date of payment, to compensate Mr and Mrs J for the delay in providing the 
settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J:
£4116  compensation for the financial loss 
£500 for the trouble  and upset (£400 has already been paid so an additional £100 to 
be paid)
Apply 8% simple interest per year to the original  £4000 contents claim - this is to be 
paid from the date of claim, to the date of payment.
I direct  Ageas  Insurance  Limited to pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0102791