K820x#14complaint
Ms C got a new car with finance  from FCE Bank  Plc (trading as Ford Credit) in October 
2014. She complains  that it wasnt fit for purpose  as she found  out the engine needed 
replacing shortly after she made  her final payment  in 2017.
background
Ms C took out a personal contract  purchase (PCP) agreement with Ford Credit to get her 
car in October 2014. The agreement said the cash price  of Ms Cs car was £16,020 when 
she got it.
Ms C says she made her final repayment  in November 2017. At this point  she became the 
legal owner of the car. In December 2017,  the car broke down. Ford Credit  says that Ms C 
complained to it on 4 January 2018. Later  that month it arranged  for the car to be fixed  at no 
cost to Ms C, and for Ms C to be given  a courtesy car while this happened.  But Ms C doesnt 
want the car any more.  She says she doesnt feel safe in it. Ms C says that as she didnt  buy 
the car until November  2017, so she wants to reject  it.
Ford Credit doesnt think Ms C should  be allowed to do this. It says it doesnt think there was 
anything wrong  with the car when Ms C got it. This is shown by the fact that Ms C did 30,731 
miles in the 37 months she had it.
Ms C says a new car shouldnt have problems with its engine after just three years,  and 
there are known problems  with her model of car. That means that replacement engines  have  
gone on to fail. She says that if shed  known about  this sooner, she wouldnt have chosen to 
keep the car after she made her final repayment.
Our investigator didnt  think it would  be fair and reasonable  for us to recommend that Ms C 
should be allowed  to reject the car. She said that if there was a fault with the car that was 
present when the car was supplied  to her in October  2014,  she wouldve expected this to 
come to light earlier than December 2017 and before it had done more than 30,000 miles. 
Our investigator also noted that the Driver and Vehicle Standards  Agency website doesnt  
show that Ms Cs car has been recalled.
Ms C remained unhappy,  so I was asked to review this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that Ford Credit had supplied  Ms C the car under  a finance 
agreement. So it was responsible for the quality of that car. The relevant law says the car 
needed to be of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied. This means that it met the 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as satisfactory  taking into account the 
description, price and other relevant circumstances.
Ms C has told us she didnt expect the new car she bought in 2014  to need its engine
replacing after three years and after shed done  less than 31,000  miles. I was minded to 
agree that engine  failure wasnt something  a reasonable person would expect or put down to 
fair wear and tear considering the age and mileage of the car at the time it occured.
I said there might be reasons the engine failed  other  than an inherent defect  such as poor 
maintenance or a road accident. But there wasnt  persuasive evidence  of this. It seems that 
the problem with the engine was likely to have been caused by an inherent  defect.
Ref: DRN03986462I appreciated Ford Credits position that if the problem was present at the point of sale, the 
car wouldnt have  been  able to travel as far as did without an issue. But I thought  durability 
was an important factor when considering  the quality of goods in accordance with the 
relevant law. In this case the car went on for some  time before the engine  failure.  On the 
face of it the failure seemed to be premature, and indicated that the goods  originally  supplied  
to Ms C werent sufficiently durable.
All things  considered, and based on the limited information I had, I thought  it was likely that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Ms C was supplied  it. 
Ms C had argued that as she didnt become the legal owner of the car until she made the 
final payment for it in November 2017,  she should be able to reject the car after it broke  
down in December  2017.
However, I said that Ms C got the car and took out the finance agreement in October  2014.  
So the relevant legislation is the Sale of Goods Act 1979. The Sale of Goods  Act 1979 
doesnt give Ms C an automatic right to reject  the car. Instead it provides for a number of 
remedies including  rejection, repair, and replacing the car.
I considered the fact that Ford Credit  has already replaced the engine at no cost to Ms C, 
and that Ms C hasnt  provided us with any evidence  to support her view that this new engine 
is likely  to fail again. In the circumstances,  I didnt think  it would  be fair and reasonable for 
me to let Ms C reject the car now. So I didnt think Ford Credit needed to do anything more  
to resolve the complaint.
I invited Ms C and Ford Credit to let me have any final submissions they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision
Ms C said she agreed with some of my provisional findings. But she is aware  that people are 
having ongoing problems with her make and model  of car.
Ford Credit said didnt  have anything to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has said they disagree  with my provisional decision or made any substantive 
comments for me to consider. So I find no grounds on which  to depart  from the conclusions  I 
set out in my provisional decision.
I appreciate that Ms C is conscious  that some people have had ongoing  problems with her 
make and model of car. But as I said in my provisional decision,  Ford Credit has replaced 
the engine at no cost to Ms C, and she hasnt provided us with evidence to support her view 
that this new engine is likely to fail again.
Ms C also referred to the amount  of time it has taken for this case to be resolved by our 
service. Im sorry  it has taken time to resolve, but I dont think  that alters the conclusion I 
have reached.
Ref: DRN03986463my final decision
My final decision is that FCE Bank  Plc (trading as Ford Credit) doesnt need to do anything  
more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0398646