K821x#15complaint
Miss P is unhappy that NewDay Ltd twice  rejected her requests to make a money  transfer 
from her credit card to her current account  and hasnt provided a clear explanation why.
background
I issued my provisional decision in July 2019 explaining that I intended  to uphold Miss Ps 
complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision is set out below.
Miss P called NewDay and tried to make a money  transfer of £600 from her NewDay credit 
card to her current account in September 2018. The transfer did not go through. This was 
because the personal details NewDay had recorded did not match those on the destination 
account. The reason for this was that NewDay had Miss Ps date of birth recorded 
incorrectly.
NewDay updated Miss Ps details  and she attempted the transfer again on the same day. It 
still didnt go through.  NewDay  initially told Miss P this was due to information  held by credit 
reference agencies  being incorrect and that shed need to contact  these agencies  directly. 
However it later explained the change to her date of birth on its records wouldnt immediately 
be reflected in the information with credit  reference agencies  and this could take a few 
weeks. And it said it couldnt process  the transfer until this happened. Following  a complaint 
by Miss P, NewDay offered her £10 for incorrectly initially  suggesting she needed to contact 
credit reference agencies.
Miss P then again  attempted  to make the money  transfer in October 2018. This was also 
unsuccessful. NewDay said this was because the account Miss P was trying  to transfer the 
money to was a building society account. When Miss P complained  about this, NewDay  said 
it couldnt transfer money to some building society accounts, but that it shouldve been  able 
to for the type of account  Miss P had. It suggested  she should contact her account provider 
to see how it was recording the account. It also offered  Miss P £20 for the incorrect  
information it initially gave.
Unhappy with the continued  delays,  Miss P complained to our service.  
first transfer attempt
NewDay has explained that when it processes a request for a money  transfer it does checks 
to verify that the request is genuine. As well as taking its customer through internal  security  
questions it uses information from a credit reference agency to check  that the personal 
details recorded  for the destination account match those  for the credit  card account. When 
doing so here, it came  to light that NewDay had an incorrect date of birth recorded.
NewDay has sent us system prints  of the information that was recorded when Miss P applied  
for the card. And this shows the incorrect date of birth recorded. NewDay has said this 
incorrect information was given when Miss P applied for the card online. But the data it has 
provided says that the application channel was in store.  So its possible that this was a 
recording error by whoever took the application rather  than Miss P providing  incorrect  
information. But in any event, its clear that the mistake with the date of birth originated at 
application. 
Ref: DRN01341832Its unfortunate that this only came to light when  Miss P tried to make  a money transfer.  But 
the information Ive seen  suggests that NewDay  updated its systems as soon as it was made  
aware that the information was incorrect. And I think this was the fair thing to do. 
However because  NewDay  uses information  from a credit reference agency  to verify 
transactions, it says it couldnt process the money transfer until the credit  reference agency 
updated this information. And this process can take time as financial business report  
information to credit reference agencies at set intervals  rather  than on a minute-to-minute  
or daily basis  and the credit reference agencies  then need to process  this information and 
update their records. 
Weve asked NewDay whether there was any other way for the money transfer to have been 
processed, when  the error came  to light with the date of birth.  It said there wasnt. We cant 
usually interfere with a business processes. But it does strike me as odd that there was no 
alternative form of verification available.
NewDay was happy to update Miss Ps date of birth  and seemed to accept the details it 
had were wrong. And in turn that meant those showing with credit  reference agencies for the 
destination account were right, and matched its now updated internal records.  So I dont see 
what waiting for this to reflect with credit reference agencies really  added.  And it appears the 
only thing preventing the transaction being  processed at that point was NewDay and its rigid 
processes. 
If the error with the personal  information  had been  because of NewDay,  making a customer 
wait over a month because of its error wouldnt  seem fair to me. And in the circumstances 
making Miss P wait also doesnt feel fair. So Im surprised there was no alternative  available. 
There were also issues  with how the problem was explained to Miss P. NewDay  has sent us 
a recording of the second call Miss P had with it on 11 September  2018. And it has provided 
notes of the other correspondence it had with Miss P. From reviewing this information  I think 
NewDay has provided incorrect advice  to Miss P and I think  it couldve done  more to explain  
the issues to her.
Ive listened to the call recording. NewDay has said its agent wouldnt have known on this 
call that it had only recently updated Miss Ps date of birth without checking the account 
notes. But I dont think its unreasonable to expect them to have done  so  particularly when 
Miss P explained to them this was not the first time shed discussed this with NewDay. But I 
think what is more concerning is the incorrect  information given  to Miss P. She was told to 
contact the credit reference agency  to ask it to update her details.  But consumers cant 
manually amend information recorded  by businesses with credit reference agencies.  It is 
financial businesses that must inform credit reference agencies  when information is wrong 
and request that it be updated. And NewDay, as the more experienced party,  shouldve  
known that.
The contact  notes provided suggest that this incorrect information  was repeated to Miss P a 
couple of times. They say that on 12 September 2018 she was told to wait a few more days  
for the credit reference agency to respond. And on 18 September  2018 after Miss P told 
NewDay shed had a response which said NewDay would need  to request the change in 
information, NewDay again told Miss P to call the credit reference agency  as it was 
recording information correctly. It was only once Miss P complained that NewDay  explained 
to her that it had requested the information be updated and that this would take time and 
shed need to wait.
Ref: DRN01341833So based  on what Ive seen, I think NewDay has delayed the transaction being  processed by 
not considering  other options  when  the issue with incorrect personal  details  came  to light. 
And it caused unnecessary confusion by providing  incorrect and conflicting information  in 
relation to why the first attempted money  transfer was delayed. 
NewDay paid Miss P £10 in respect  of the issues with the first transfer. But I dont think  that 
is enough to reflect the trouble caused. Its clear Miss P was making regular contact with 
NewDay and third parties to try to rectify this, much of which couldve been avoided had 
NewDay given her correct  information  sooner. As a result I think  itd be fair for NewDay to 
pay a further £100  in respect of the trouble its actions have caused.
second transfer attempt
Once the issues with the date of birth were resolved, Miss P again attempted to make the 
money transfer. But this was again unsuccessful.  
NewDay has said that this is because the account the money was being transferred to is a 
building society account. But in its response  to Miss P about this, NewDay said that it can 
carry out money transfers to certain types of building society accounts   and hers is one that 
it should be able to transfer the funds to. It says it thinks  the issue  might be with how her 
building society is reporting the account and suggested she contact it. Miss P says she has 
done so and her account provider believes it is reporting the account correctly.
NewDay has said to us that the reason it cant transfer to some  building society  accounts is 
because they have roll numbers rather than eight  digit account numbers. But it has said it 
can make  transfers to the type of account Miss P holds. And Miss Ps statements advise that 
money transfers can be made to UK current accounts held in her name, with no other  
restrictions being mentioned. 
Miss P has confirmed her account has an eight digit account number. And she gave the 
eight digit account  number to NewDay during the call on 11 September  2018. So it isnt clear 
what has gone wrong here or why the transaction failed. 
NewDay has said that it relates to how the account provider is reporting the account. But 
there is nothing to suggest  they are reporting the account incorrectly.  And despite  us asking, 
NewDay hasnt really  explained why the way in which the account is reported by the third 
party, would prevent the transfer when an account  number  and sort code have  been  
provided. So again I dont feel it has done enough to give a clear  explanation to Miss P here. 
And this unnecessary confusion has caused her additional upset.
I also note that during  the call on 11 September 2018, Miss P gave the adviser the name of 
her current  account provider, which clearly is a building  society.  So I think  NewDay  couldve 
done more at that point to explain there couldve  been issues  with transferring to building 
society accounts.
NewDay offered £20 in respect of Miss Ps complaint about the second transfer  and I 
understand this was credited to her account.  But again Im inclined to say that I dont think 
this is enough.  While  it isnt clear what has prevented the transfer this time,  I think  NewDay  
has again suggested the fault lies elsewhere  but not really provided any evidence to support 
this. And when Miss P gave additional  information to potentially  disprove this, I dont think 
NewDay has done enough to investigate, understand or explain the problem.  
Ref: DRN01341834Because of this I think itd be fair for NewDay to pay a further  £100  for the upset  the ongoing 
confusion has caused Miss P. I also think NewDay should discuss this further with Miss P 
and, if she still wants to carry  out a money transfer, attempt to find a solution to the problem. 
And provided the money transfer is requested and approved within a reasonable timeframe 
from the date of my decision, I think three months would be reasonable, NewDay should 
honour the transfer rate that was in place at the point  this was first requested.
credit file
Miss P provided her credit  file to our service as part of our investigation. NewDay  has 
explained that, when a request for a money transfer is made, and it carries  out the 
verification process  I explained previously, a search  will be recorded on its customers credit  
file. So here Id have expected to see a search  on 11 September 2018 and one in October 
2018. But Miss Ps credit  file shows seven separate searches   three on 11 September,  two 
on 9 October and two more on 17 October 2018.
I think at least five of those searches have been recorded incorrectly.  It is reasonable that 
the first search on 11 September  2018 remain as a money transfer was requested. However  
any further searches  on that day were in my opinion as a result of the poor information about 
the cause of the application failing. And in terms of the searches in October 2018, I think 
only one of these  should be showing  to reflect  the second money  transfer request. The 
rest, in my opinion, dont  accurately  reflect  the activity that has gone on here and I think 
NewDay should arrange for them to be removed.
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im thinking of upholding  this complaint.
I think NewDay Ltd should;
Pay Miss P £200, in addition to the £30 already offered, for the trouble and upset  
caused by providing  incorrect  and misleading  information.
Contact the relevant  credit reference  agencies  and arrange to remove  five of the 
seven searches recorded incorrectly.
Get in contact with Miss P to see if she still wants to arrange  a money transfer,  
investigate the issues preventing this and propose reasonable solutions.
If the money transfer proceeds within three months, NewDay  should honour the 
promotional rates it offered at the point the money  transfer  was first requested.
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision. But neither NewDay  nor Miss P responded to my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and as neither party has sent me anything else they want me to consider, 
Im not minded  to change my conclusions set out in my provisional decision. So, for those 
same, summarised above, I think the complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN01341835my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint.
NewDay Ltd should;
Pay Miss P £200, in addition to the £30 already offered, for the trouble and upset  
caused by providing  incorrect  and misleading  information.
Contact the relevant  credit reference  agencies  and arrange to remove  five of the 
seven searches recorded incorrectly.
Get in contact with Miss P to see if she still wants to arrange  a money transfer,  
investigate the issues preventing this and propose reasonable solutions.
If the money transfer proceeds within three months of the date of my decision,  
NewDay should honour the promotional  rates  it offered at the point the money  
transfer was first requested.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134183