K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the fee Claim4You Ltd (C4Y)  has charged him for a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim after C4Y had told him he wouldnt be charged a fee.
background
In July 2017 Mr A signed an agreement for C4Y to represent him in submitting a PPI claim.  
And in August 2017, C4Y said it submitted  the claim to his bank.
On 1 March 2018 Mr As bank said he didnt have a PPI policy. And C4Y told Mr A that as 
his PPI payments  were  below £10.00 it wouldnt purse his claim further so he wouldnt be 
charged.
But on 6 March 2018 Mr As bank told both Mr A and C4Y that what it had told them  before 
wasnt correct, and that there was a PPI policy. On 16 March C4Y sent Mr A, a letter telling 
him that his claim was now successful, the amount of his refund and the amount C4Y would 
charge for its fee.
Mr A said he refused to pay the fee as C4Y had told him it wasnt  going to charge its fee. 
Mr A said hed complained to C4Y but didnt  get a response  to his complaint until he was 
contacted by a debt collection  firm. And since then the amount had increased due to fees 
being added.
Mr A was told C4Y has since gone  into administration but the debt collection firm sent him 
C4Ys response to his complaint, dated  August 2018. Mr A said hed never received this and 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed we could look at Mr As complaint as he hadnt received C4Ys 
response when  it was first sent. But told Mr A we could only consider the fees charged by 
C4Y. Following her investigation she said C4Y hadnt done anything  wrong by charging its 
success and recovery fee. 
Mr A didnt agree and has asked an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
In reaching my decision Ive only looked  at the fees charged by C4Y to decide if they are fair 
and reasonable.  I know  further charges have been  added since by the debt collection firm 
but as this wasnt by C4Y,  I wont make any comment about these.
The agreement Mr A signed, with C4Y in July 2017 was on a No win No fee basis. This 
means C4Y charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work  
they actually did. So, any work done  on any unsuccessful claims would be done  for free. 
Where a claim was successful, C4Ys fee may be more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.  
Ref: DRN05981292On 1 March 2018 C4Y was told by Mr As bank  that there wasnt a PPI policy. As Mr A had 
said his PPI premiums were below £10.00 C4Y told him it wasnt going pursue his claim, and 
so wouldnt charge its fee. So this would have been an unsuccessful claim.
But a few days later, 6 March 2018,  Mr As bank told both Mr A and C4Y it had made an 
error and that PPI compensation was due to Mr A. So this was now a successful claim. 
On 16 March, C4Y sent Mr A a letter telling him his claim  had been  successful. In the letter  it 
said what the total amount of Mr As refund  would  be and that its fee for the successful claim 
was £428.28.
I can understand Mr As frustration after being told C4Y werent going to charge him a fee. 
But the letter  from his bank, 6 March 2018, is clear that the banks previous decision had 
been incorrect. And this was corrected within a matter of a few days  with Mr A being made 
aware he now had a successful claim. 
I think C4Y has been clear that a fee would  be applied  on a successful claim.  And the claim 
was successful. So Im satisfied C4Y can charge a success  fee.
In the terms and conditions  of the agreement C4Y set out its fee as being  30% plus VAT. It 
also gave an example of what the monetary value of the fee would be, and what  payment its 
client would  get. And this is the fee that C4Y asked Mr A to pay. The terms and conditions 
go on to say:
Should you fail to make this payment  we reserve the right to charge an admin fee of 
up to £100
C4Y asked Mr A to pay its fee several  times and told him, as he hadnt paid the fee that it 
had to refer his account to its legal team. C4Y did add its additional costs to Mr As fee for 
trying to recover its fee. This was below the £100  limit as outlined in its terms and conditions.  
So I cant say C4Ywas being unreasonable in doing  this.
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force  on 10 July 
2018. From  this date,  claims  management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success  fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT. But the fee cap wasnt retrospective - so doesnt  apply to 
agreements entered  into before this date.  So C4Y can charge the higher fee.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision.  But the claim C4Y submitted for him was 
successful. So, Im satisfied C4Y was authorised to act on his behalf and acted in line with 
its terms and conditions  by charging him its success fee of 30% plus VAT. And the added  
administration charge was also in line with the terms and conditions  Mr A had signed.
So, Im satisfied that C4Y can apply  its fee to Mr A.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr As complaint.
Ref: DRN05981293Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0598129