K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card, in 2001.  Mr V says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him PPI with the 
card.
To keep  things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mr Vs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover)  arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought  
Halifaxs subsequent  offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share,  was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Vs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Vs. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Vs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. Ive also 
considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission  as mentioned  above.  Ive seen 
that Halifax has made an offer in respect  this, and I too think  the offer to refund some of the 
cost to compensate  for the commission  element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each  of these conclusions below. 
 
I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mr V didnt have to take out the PPI if he didnt  
want to, however he chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen the original credit 
agreement, and I think this would have  been  generated at the meeting Mr V had with a 
Halifax adviser in the branch office when setting up his new credit  card account. I note 
the yes option  to have PPI with the new card was selected and he also signed  the form, 
so this shows he consented to the PPI being  added. I also think the periodic PPI charges 
would have then started  to show up on his monthly statements.  If Mr V hadnt agreed  to 
Ref: DRN09748552the PPI, I think hed have  been prompted to ask what the charges were for. Theres  no 
suggestion he did this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr V as part of an advised sale,  so it had to check that 
the PPI was right for him. In my view,  the evidence about Mr Vs circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy  wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For 
example, he was eligible for the cover and he didnt have  any other apparent  means to 
fall back on in the event of something unexpected happening, such as losing his job or 
being unable  to work. So I think the policy was suitable for him.
There was nothing  about Mr Vs employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions 
that would  have affected his ability to successfully claim.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it should have  been, but as Ive said, he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt wrong for Mr V as Ive mentioned  above,  or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the information he was 
likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable for him so it seems like 
it would  have been useful if something went wrong.  I therefore  dont think Mr V would 
have declined the policy even if Halifax could have done a better job at explaining things.
Overall, I therefore consider that Mr V would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
provided a useful benefit. I also think  the it was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought  
he was getting.  In those circumstances, I think  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event because the evidence shows it was something he wanted to have.
Mr Vs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Halifax should  have disclosed  the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
However, Mr Vs representative  hasnt  said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I have 
thought about these  things carefully  and how they might apply in Mr Vs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Ref: DRN09748553Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused  is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr V about the high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this case.  
So taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-The likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship  between  
Halifax and Mr V was unfair  under section 140A of the Consumer Credit  Act because 
Halifax didnt tell him about  the high levels of commission  and profit share  in this case 
I dont think Halifax acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr V because  it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr Vs representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin  judgment  and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have  said Mr V should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr V about  the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr V wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about  the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN09748554court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr V in order  to remedy the unfairness  caused by Halifax  not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before  he purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr Vs representative suggests, driven to conclude  that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of commission  for the 
reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate  compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr V paid for his PPI policy.  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves  Mr V with the policy  he would still have  
taken out if Halifax  had done  everything  it should have done  but with lower  commission  
and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element  of Mr Vs complaint or make any award  in favour  of him 
for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mr V an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated  interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2021.
Ref: DRN09748555Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0974855