K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited, trading as Safety Net Credit, gave her a 
Safety Net facility  without carrying out proper  creditworthiness and affordability checks. 
She says that Safety Net could clearly see from my credit report that lending  to me was 
irresponsible.
background and findings
I issued my provisional decision on 25 September 2019 and gave Miss M and Indigo Michael 
until 9 October 2019 to look at it and then send  me anything else they wished  me to see. 
Miss M replied to say that she was happy with it. 
Indigo Michael was sent the provisional decision at the same  time and then another  copy  by 
email again on 1 October 2019. We have not heard from Indigo Michael. So I have 
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have  taken into account the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
As Miss M has accepted my provisional decision and I have no new evidence or points from 
Indigo Michael then I come to the same  conclusions I came to before and for the same 
reasons. My provisional  decision is attached  and forms  part of this final decision.  
putting things right - what  Indigo Michael  should do 
Based on the statement of account provided to me by Indigo Michael, it appears that Miss M 
had some difficulties repaying  her final drawdowns,  and an outstanding balance remains. 
To put things right for Miss M, Indigo Michael should;
remove all the unpaid  interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance.  Indigo 
Michael should then re-work the facility as if the entire interest  element  of each 
payment went towards the updated outstanding balance. But importantly, Indigo 
Michael needs to make  sure that Miss M doesnt  repay  more  than the principal 
amount she borrowed.  
If, after the account rework Miss M has already paid enough to fully repay the outstanding 
principal sum then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple interest from 
the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. *
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Miss Ms credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Indigo Michael to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above, an outstanding balance remains then Miss M and Indigo Michael 
should come  to a mutually agreeable repayment  plan in order  to repay any outstanding 
principal. 
Ref: DRN02001392my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 25 September 2019, 
I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss M in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision on or before 15 November 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02001393the provisional  decision dated 25 September  2019
background 
The credit  Indigo Michael offered was a running  account credit facility  where a consumer could either  
request funds up to their credit limit, or funds could be deposited  into their nominated  bank account  
once their account balance fell below the safety net amount of the customers choosing.  
There was the option for the customer  to make manual  withdrawals. The expectation for customers  
was that they have to repay at least a minimum amount  each month. But I want  to be clear that what 
Indigo Michael provided Miss M was not a payday loan. 
A feature of the facility  was that if the consumers  bank account balance dropped below a pre-set 
amount then Indigo Michael would effectively transfer money into that account  to keep it above a 
certain balance. This was a feature often  used to avoid straying into an unauthorised  overdraft. Or if 
the pre-set  limit was set to avoid going beyond the limit for an authorised  overdraft then the net effect 
was the same  avoidance  of unauthorised overdraft fees and charges. 
Miss M was given a facility with a £350 credit limit in April 2017. The table below uses information 
from Indigo  Michael  and shows the credit limit increases  and their corresponding dates. 
date of limit or 
increasecredit limit or increased 
limit
10 April 2017 £350
11 June 2017 £410
11 July 2017 £530
11 August 2017 £680
11 September 2017 £800
11 October 2017 £950
11 November 2017 £980
11 April 2018 £1,000
Indigo Michael says that it carried out checks about Miss M with a credit reference agency and was 
able to review  her financial  circumstances by analysing her transactional history from her bank 
account which  included debits and credits. 
It also explained  that checks went far beyond those used  by most lenders and when considering a 
credit limit increase it would have taken into account the previous months  transactional data to 
assess a customers ability to repay the increased  credit limit in a reasonable timeframe.
Indigo Michael accepts  that it knew Miss M was taking  short term loans (STL) and she was making 
repayments towards a debt management plan and that she had a default six months before she first 
approached Indigo Michael. It offered her the credit  facility  of £350 which it has explained  to us was 
modestdespite having a relatively  large  disposable income.  And it explained  that the information it 
had obtained about her credit history had informed  our decision on how much  credit to afford her. I 
refer back  to this later in my decision.
Miss M does not accept that the checks carried  out by Indigo Michael were  acceptable. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint and his view was that Indigo Michael had carried out 
proper checks and it had a full picture of Miss Ms financial situation before  lending. 
Ref: DRN02001394Our adjudicator said that during the time Miss M had the facility with Indigo Michael, monitoring of her 
account would have revealed that on average  her income  ranged from £3,400 to £5,300 a month. He 
worked out that Miss Ms normal living costs  varied  and ranged  from £1,200 to £2,200 a month.  So 
his view was that she had a high disposable income each month.  He pointed out that the minimum 
payment required was £20 each month. 
Our adjudicator pointed out to Miss M that Indigo Michael  monitored the balance  of her bank account 
and he had calculated that between 11 January 2017 and 20 April 2018 she had an average credit 
balance of £700 and was in overdraft on three days. So he did not think that Indigo Michael had done 
anything wrong. 
Miss M did not agree  with our adjudicators opinion. She says that if you look at my lending from SNC 
I was paying back and then borrowing either the same day or within a few days  of paying back which 
alone should have been  a red flag to them.
Miss M did not agree  with our adjudicators view that her average bank balance  over the course of her 
time as a customer with Indigo Michael was around £700. She pointed  out that in some months she 
received from her employer a variable quarterly  commission.  And she was concerned that her bank 
statements and credit  file had not been looked at.
The Indigo Michael account had an outstanding balance  on it. I asked Indigo Michael to confirm this 
and to give me further information by 20 September 2019 but I have not received anything. 
The complaint remains unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the credit account was offered.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulated the provision of credit of this kind at the time Miss 
M applied. And the relevant regulatory rules in place  at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC)  section  of the FCA Handbook  of rules and guidance.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needed  to bear in mind when  
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences..
Ref: DRN02001395In practice all of this meant that a lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an 
informed decision on the credit limit being offered. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did 
not set out compulsory  checks, they did list a number  of things a lender  could take into account before  
agreeing to lend. The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take 
into account  a number of different things, including how much was being  advanced. Miss M was given 
an open-ended  credit  facility. The checks Indigo  Michael carried out had to provide enough for it to be 
able to understand whether  Miss M would be able to both service  and then repay  this facility  within a 
reasonable period of time.
I refer to the earlier section which covers the background to the complaint  and that 
Indigo Michael has accepted that the £350 limit was set at that modest  level directly because of the 
information it had obtained about her.
Having considered  the overall picture about Miss Ms credit history, her bank accounts and her 
submissions to this service, I do not agree that Indigo Michaels approval for credit  of £350  was 
appropriate. It would have carried  out extensive checks as it had access to, and had gathered, a lot of 
information. But essentially  Miss M had at least three outstanding short  term loans (a fact it has 
accepted in its submissions  to this service) and relatively recent defaults  for a mobile phone  and for 
another debt (31 October 2016 for about £3,700), and was paying into a debt management plan  
again a fact it accepts it knew about.  
The credit  searches it did for Miss M at the time she first applied show that as well as these items 
referred to above, she also had:
Total value of all current defaults 3905
Total value of all current delinquents 6415
The credit  reference agency  search  results showed that Miss M had total monthly  repayments on 
active fixed term accounts  which were about £1,060. 
Having approved  the initial £350 credit limit, and taking into consideration the fact that according  to 
Indigo Michael it had deliberately set it at a modest level then it seemed  to move away from that 
cautious approach to Miss Ms account. Indigo Michael  increased her limit from £350 to £980  in as 
little as seven months. This was an exponentially large series of credit rises and my provisional view 
is that I do not think they were predicated on the reality  of the situation.  
Looking at the transactions categorisations  for Indigo Michaels initial assessment for credit,  I notice 
that gas/electricity and water bill payments, some large supermarket shops and subscription TV 
regular payments, had been unclassified in its analysis  of Miss Ms finances, and likely missed from 
her expenditure  costs. Items which appear to be childcare  costs have been omitted as they are 
unclassified in the Indigo Michael files. 
Some of her large repayments of almost  £200 a month to repay  a known lender (rising to £395 a 
month in January 2018 when the original loan for £5,000 was refinanced and became £10,000) do not 
appear to have been  included in her monthly expenditure items. 
I can see that Miss M was repaying  very low amounts to a debt collection agency and what looks to 
have been the debt management plan administrator.  The fact that they are low repayments usually 
indicated that these sums  were all she could  afford. 
As I think it was unusual to have received  credits from a local council, seeing  she received some  does 
appear to fit Miss Ms explanation  that she had challenged the Council in relation to her Council Tax. 
So these credits may have resulted from her court  case with that council. This leads  me to think  that 
these credits ought not to have been classified as credits for income. But Indigo Michael  seems to 
have listed them as credits and may well have added them  in the overall income calculations:  they 
add up to £1,577.
Ref: DRN02001396Having looked at her payday  loans commitments during the time that Indigo Michael was reviewing 
her bank statements  before deciding  upon  the initial  credit level, and then reviewing her transactions 
before raising her credit limits, I can see that Miss Ms debits to at least  one payday lender increased  
as the months  went by. This suggests that Miss Ms liability and therefore dependency  on short term 
credit was increasing. And looking at the figures shown  on her statements I think that it was a 
significant layer of debt that I do not think Indigo Michael could ignore.
At least one of her credit cards was within a few pounds  of her credit limit in March 2017 and had 
been over the limit the month before. I have seen  this on her personal credit file. In May 2017 (one 
month after Indigo Michael approved  her credit limit of £350) I can see that she made a large payment 
to that credit card (around £776) and this does  suggest  that Miss M was arranging credit from one 
source in order to repay outstanding credit elsewhere: a classic  indication of unsustainable borrowing. 
Another credit  card entry on her personal credit  file suggests the same story - a large  repayment to it 
(about £778) in June  2017.  And I think it was much the same pattern of behaviour and for the same 
reason: reduction  of one debt using credit from elsewhere.  
By August 2017  just a few months after the initial credit limit - Indigo Michael removed a repayment 
from Miss Ms account  of just over £800. In view of the fact that her monthly salary was usually about  
£1,700 (it ranged from £1,549 to £1,955) that repayment translates into almost 50% of her base 
salary. Miss M has explained that she received a variable bonus. And even factoring in her variable 
bonus her average  monthly income from April 2017 to end of March  2018 was about  £2,400.  So the 
£800 repayment was a significant  portion.  
This together with her other outgoings about which  Indigo Michael was aware  leads me to think that 
as her credit limit increased Miss M was getting further into debt. And as Ive outlined  above her 
requests for credit  from payday  lenders  also were increasing.
I appreciate that Miss M received benefits as well, but in March 2017 it was about  £137,  in April 2017 
it was about £303, in May 2017 it was about £413, by July and August 2017 it had reduced again  to 
£323 and September 2017 reduced again to about £286. And as I have outlined earlier  in this 
provisional decision,  I think  that Indigo Michael has misclassified some of the debits I have identified 
as costs to her and so may not have included them. So the net effect of these two elements   benefits  
received and correct classification of costs  was not likely to have made a huge difference  to the 
financial situation I have  assessed for Miss M.  
I am aware  that a minimum payment was the contractual amount and so to address this point I refer 
to this provision in CONC which was in place at the time: 
CONC 5.3.1  (8) For a regulated credit  agreement for running-account credit the firm, in making  its 
creditworthiness assessment
(a) should  consider the customer's ability to repay the maximum amount of credit available  (equivalent 
to the credit limit) under  the agreement within a reasonable period;
(b) [omitted here]; 
(c) should not use the assumption of the amount  necessary  to make only the minimum repayment 
each month.
My provisional  view is that Indigo Michaels assessment of Miss Ms disposable income  was 
miscalculated and as such then the test to be able to repay this type of credit within  a reasonable 
period (CONC 5.2.1 as it was at the time) was not made out as Miss M was not in a position to repay 
the credit.  And she was even less in a position to repay this as the credit limits  increased.
My provisional  decision  is that I am planning to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
end of extract
Ref: DRN0200139