K821x#15complaint
Mr F, represented by a claims management  company (CMC), complains that CASH ON GO 
LIMITED (trading as Peachy.co.uk Peachy) lent money to him that he couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Mr F entered  into three  loans with Peachy between January and August 2013. The first loan 
was for £190  repayable over two monthly instalments. The second  loan was for £100 to be 
repaid in a single instalment. The third loan was for £200 to be repaid in a single instalment.
Mr F says that he was in a cycle of debt whereby he was borrowing to repay existing debts. 
He says that adequate  affordability checks didnt take place and that had a check  of his 
borrowing history taken  place Peachy would have realised that providing him with short term 
loans didnt help his long term financial situation.  
Peachy says that before the loans were  provided  appropriate affordability and credit  
worthiness assessments  were carried out. It says that Mr F said he was in full time 
employment and provided information  about his income and expenditure. It says the checks 
carried out didnt  suggest Mr F was unable to afford the loan repayments.  It also says that 
Mr F was provided with the information  he needed  to make an informed decision about the 
loans and that he only borrowed three  loans  and there were gaps between the lending.  
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in part. He thought that loan three shouldnt have been 
provided because  by this time Mr Fs pattern of borrowing  suggested he had become 
persistently reliant  on short term borrowing. He recommended that the interest and charges 
on this loan be repaid.
Peachy didnt accept  our adjudicators view.  It didnt believe that providing three small loans 
within eight moths showed a pattern of borrowing that suggested the loans were  
unsustainable. It also noted that the third loan was only ten pounds  larger  than the first loan 
which had been  viewed as affordable. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
Ref: DRN01169952the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. The loans in this case were taken out in 2013. At that time the relevant guidance  
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT). This set out the need to make a reasonable 
assessment of whether a borrower  can afford  to meet repayments in a sustainable manner.  
This refers to issues such as being  able to the make the repayments without undue 
difficulties throughout  the life of the agreement and without having  to realise security or 
assets. It then further sets out that without undue difficulty means without having to borrow 
further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Before the loans were  provided, information  about  Mr Fs income was gathered. This 
showed his monthly  income as £1,200. There was no information  about Mr Fs expenditure 
recorded. The first loan was for £190,  repayable over two instalments. The second  loan was 
for a smaller amount  of £100 but repayable  in a single payment. Given  these loans were for 
relatively small amounts  and were the first two loans in the lending chain; I do not find I have 
enough to say they shouldnt have been provided.
However, Mr F extended the first loan and then deferred payment on the second loan twice. 
I think this should  have raised  concerns  that Mr F was struggling  to manage his money.  By 
the time the third loan was provided,  Mr F had taken  out three loans in less than eight 
months. I note the comments about the amounts borrowed but as these werent reducing I 
think it reasonable that Peachy would  have been  concerned that Mr F was dependent  on 
short term borrowing. I have looked  through Mr Fs bank  statements from the time and can 
see that he was making  regular  use of other  short term loan providers. Given  his pattern of 
borrowing, his need to extend  his previous  loans,  and his use of other  short term loans, I 
think that Peachy  should have realised by loan three  that lending to Mr F was unsustainable. 
Given the above I uphold this complaint in regard to loan three. 
Ref: DRN01169953my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan three. CASH  ON GO 
LIMITED should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr F paid on loan three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan three  means any information recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loan three  should be removed from Mr F's credit  
file
* HM Revenue & Customs requires CASH  ON GO LIMITED to take off tax from this interest.  
CASH ON GO LIMITED must give Mr F a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0116995