K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms B took out the PPI in 2006 in connection  with a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Ms B didnt agree with 
the adjudicators  conclusions,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ms B had to complete and sign a separate section of 
the credit  card application form to show that she wanted the cover. In the same 
section of the form there  were  other types  of insurance that Ms B couldve selected, 
but it seems she chose not to. So I think Ms B wouldve realised she had a choice 
about whether  or not to buy the PPI. 
RBS recommended the PPI to Ms B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. 
Ms B has said she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work 
because of sickness or accident.  But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to her 
employer benefits  and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place 
wouldve meant Ms B could use her employer benefits to pay for other  expenses. 
So I think Ms B wouldve had some use for the policy, despite  her existing 
arrangements. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Ms B off taking out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
Ref: DRN02995622RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because RBS didnt tell Ms B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back  to Ms B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0299562