K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains Nationwide  Building Society  gave her wrong information about a payment  
from her account.
background
In April 2018, Miss W attempted  to make a debit card payment of £65 for a fine. She noticed 
the money hadnt been debited from her account straightaway,  so she called Nationwide  to 
find out why. Miss W says Nationwide told her the payment had been  made  but it takes time 
for it to show on her statement. 
The company who Miss W had tried to pay never  collected the payment. So about a week  
later the money  went back into Miss Ws account. Miss W says she didnt realise until the 
company contacted her to say the fine had been increased due to non-payment.  Miss W 
complained to Nationwide and said it shouldnt  have told her the payment had been made. 
She said shed now spent the money and couldnt afford to pay the fine.  
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had given Miss W the correct 
information in the phone  call. It said it had approved the payment but the company  hadnt 
collected the payment. Because of this the money  was returned to Miss Ws account. It 
offered Miss W £15 compensation as a gesture of goodwill and gave Miss W a letter (which 
she could give the company) confirming that it authorised the payment of £65.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Nationwide needed  to do anything  more. She said Nationwide 
had given Miss W correct information in the telephone call about  the payment. She did think  
Nationwides explanation could have been  a little clearer but she thought the £15 
compensation it had offered was fair. 
Miss W didnt agree  so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the telephone call Miss W had with Nationwide. The advisor  initially explained 
that her payment  of £65 wasnt showing on her statement because it was pending.  Miss W 
was told this was because Nationwide was waiting for the company to take the money.  
Miss W then asked  if the pending  transaction meant  it had been paid. The advisor confirmed 
it had been paid. This was incorrect. But the advisor did immediately correctly explain the 
company hadnt  taken  the money  yet. And the advisor also told Miss W that if the company 
didnt take the money then it will just go back into her account. 
So Nationwides advisor did initially  give some  incorrect information in that call. But they then 
gave Miss W the right information  immediately. So I agree with our adjudicator  that 
Nationwides explanation could have been  clearer. But I think the £15 compensation they 
offered for this mistake was fair. This is because the mistake was put right straightaway and 
the call ended with Miss W being  given the correct information about her payment. 
Nationwide didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the payment not being  taken.  They 
correctly authorised it, but the company never collected the money. Whilst it would have 
Ref: DRN08836922been helpful for Nationwide to have told Miss W the payment was returned, they werent  
obliged to do so. Miss W would have been able to see the payment wasnt  taken by 
reviewing her account statements. 
I appreciate Miss Ws fine has now increased, but this isnt because  of anything Nationwide 
did wrong. So it wouldnt be fair for me to recommend it pays  Miss W further compensation. 
Nationwide has given  Miss W a letter which she can provide to the company who issued  the 
fine to show she had attempted to make the payment on time. I dont think  theres anything  
further Nationwide needs to do in the circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I think Nationwide Building Societys offer of £15 
compensation is fair and reasonable. If it hasnt already, Nationwide should  pay Miss W £15.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0883692