K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) cancelled a direct debit. He would like 
compensation.
background
Mr B says on 14 September  2018 he set up a direct debit on his HSBC account. He says the 
direct debit was then cancelled. But he says as he doesnt know how to do this online HSBC 
must have  done  this.
Mr B says the direct debit  for internet usage  and as a result  of not having internet access  he 
lost a job opportunity.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found no evidence  that HSBC cancelled he 
direct debit.
Mr B didnt accept this view. He says initially HSBC told him he cancelled  the direct  debit by 
phone, then online. He doesnt understand why he had two different responses.  He insisted 
he hadnt cancelled  the direct debit   he said as internet access  is so important these days it 
wouldnt make  sense  for him to cancel his service  with one provider before he set up another 
one.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr Bs direct  debit  to his internet provider was 
cancelled. The main  issue seems  to be who cancelled the direct debit.
Mr B says he doesnt know how to cancel  direct debits online.  And queries  why he would 
have done so since internet access is so essential  it wouldnt  make  sense to cancel one 
service without having another one set up.
I appreciate Mr Bs point  about the necessity  for internet  access.
In terms of the direct debit  HSBC has shown us the direct debit was set up on 14 September 
2018 and then cancelled on 20 September 2018. 
Ive seen HSBCs customer notes. These do refer to Mr B having called the bank on 20 
September 2018 but dont  give any details of that call. Mr B says he has no recollection  of 
this. He says HSBC told him he cancelled his direct debit by phone. Thats  not specifically 
what the call note says but it does refer to the fact a call was logged on 20 September  the 
same day the direct  debit  was cancelled.
But HSBC  has given  us evidence that the direct debit was cancelled  online. It has also 
explained that a member  of its staff action something on an account a record  of the user ID 
shows. When a customer makes  a change instead  of a user ID there are a number of zeros. 
As zeros rather than a user ID show on Mr Bs account I can only conclude that he did 
Ref: DRN03412192cancel the direct debit   possibly by mistake since he is adamant he had no reason to do so. 
But from what I have seen  I cant reasonably conclude HSBC  did anything  wrong.
I appreciate Mr B would  have been  put to some inconvenience not having internet access. 
He says he suffered  some  losses including losing a job opportunity. He hasnt given us any 
evidence to show how long he was without internet access. Or of any actual losses.  But 
even if he were able to do so as I havent  found  HSBC at fault I dont feel I could  reasonably 
ask HSBC to compensate  him even if he could  demonstrate actual losses 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0341219