K821x#15complaint
Ms H is unhappy with repairs completed  by her insurer Gresham Insurance  Company 
Limited after she reported a leak from a pipe in the garden at her home.
background
Ms H reported a leaking pipe under  her garden  in January  2017.  The entire  area of Ms Hs 
garden is finished in concrete with interspersed  tiles, mostly  of varying colours, at irregular  
intervals (similar  to crazy paving).
When Gresham sent contractors to fix her leak the contractor initially  dug up an area by 
the gate. The pipe wasnt leaking in that area  the surface was reinstated with concrete.  
The contractors thought the leak might  be along  the pipe, closer to the house.  They  dug 
up an area near a manhole cover. The leak was right below the hole. The leak was fixed, 
the area filled in, and finished with concrete.
In October  2018 Ms H told Gresham she was unhappy with the work that had been done 
the year before. She said the concrete was cracked and breaking up, the area had 
become unstable and dangerous. Gresham sent its contractor back out. It said the area 
hadnt been maintained  and that whilst there were cracks and weed growth this wasnt to 
do with the work that had been  carried out. When Gresham wouldnt do anything Ms H 
complained to us.
Our investigator noted the concrete in the area of repair by the manhole  did seem to be in 
poor condition. But he noted weeds around  it too. So he thought Gresham  might  have a 
point about the area not being maintained. He said Gresham  should pay £100  
compensation as the concrete could have been laid better.
Ms H was unhappy. She said the weeds wouldnt be there if there werent  cracks  in the 
concrete in the first place. She sent a picture  showing large lumps of loose concrete. She 
said it would  cost her £500  for the area to be repaired, or shed allow Gresham  to come 
and carry out the repair.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I thought Gresham should be 
given a chance to carry out a repair  but I set out specifically  the area I felt it was liable for 
as I didnt think it should have to replace all of it. My provisional findings were:
The area of repair by the gate seems fine  but the repaired area is very uniform  and is in 
plain concrete. No tiling has been  put in place  to blend in with the rest of the area. But 
I note that Ms H hasnt  complained about the lack of tiling  only that there  is cracking and 
weed growth. The uniform area of new concrete  by the gate isnt suffering in that way so 
Im not going  to require Gresham to do anything in this area.
Moving away from the gate towards  the manhole  cover (part way between the gate and 
the house) there are two strips of cracks and weed  growth. But this is in an area of 
pre-existing concrete/tiling. Ive not seen evidence that Gresham  worked on this area. And 
the photos Ive seen  dont  suggest  this is new or has recently been re-laid.
There is a patch of plain concrete near the manhole; it surrounds the right and near side 
of the manhole  as viewed from the house  towards  the gate. Gresham  says this patch of 
concrete was laid by it after the pipe was repaired. Again the concrete doesnt include any 
Ref: DRN03189182tiles (which again is odd) but the issue here is also about cracking and weeds. And I do 
think the concrete  has been laid poorly.  There are weeds around the edges  to an extent  
that is to be expected with any joined area as edges/joins will often be prone to weed 
growth. But the photos show cracks in this area of concrete that dont  have weed growth 
in them.  Further the edges are untidy   not finished and uniform as they are by the gate. 
To me it looks like the area hasnt been  prepared properly prior to the reinstatement being 
completed. Gresham, in my view, needs to reinstate this area.
This area ends in a (fairly) straight line (although the concrete is crumbling) moving  from 
the manhole towards the house.  To the left of this line (looking towards the gate) is a 
(roughly triangular) area of missing  concrete. The shape is suggestive of there having 
been a tile there at some  stage. Im not persuaded though,  as Ms H seems to be, that 
Gresham removed this tile. I think if it had it would likely have  filled the area in as it did the 
rest. But if the area was already missing a tile when Gresham arrived   it wouldnt have to 
replace that, unless  it had been caused by the leak. I dont intend to make  Gresham  repair 
this area.
Ms H has also provided a photo  in June 2019 showing some  broken-up concrete. This 
I think comes  from the near  side of the missing  tile area of concrete (when  looking  
towards the gate). Seeing  the concrete and looking at photos  provided by both parties 
from 2018, I dont  think  this broken concrete was laid by Greshams contractor. It looks to 
me to have been  part of a strip of concrete that contains all white  tiles that seems  to be 
part of a previous repair.  I dont intend to make  Gresham repair this area.
In summary  then I think Greshams contractor did do a poor job in part. I think  the 
concrete laid in the area around  the manhole  cover, as described above, was laid poorly 
and that Gresham  should reinstate this area. Im not minded to make it carry out any 
further works  to the garden.
Gresham initially objected to my findings  but it didnt say anything  that hadnt  been said 
before. Ms H told us that shed had the whole area that Id considered  in my provisional  
findings replaced. She said this had cost at least £2,600 and provided some chitties  showing 
various payments  being made.  
I reconsidered the situation as my requirement for Gresham to re-lay concrete near the 
manhole, was no longer  a viable remedy. I said to both parties:
.Ms H has advised shes now had the path completely replaced. I dont think it would be 
fair to make Gresham pay for the replacement  path  for the same  reasons I set out 
provisionally when  I considered the condition of different  areas of the path and whether 
Gresham was liable  for repair of each. With the exception of the area near the manhole 
cover I felt it wasnt  liable.
Its not clear to me how much it would have  cost Gresham to complete  such a repair. And 
Ms H has never shown what repair of that area alone would have cost her. Bearing in mind  
the cost of labour and debris removal, as well as reinstating that area on a like basis,  Im 
prepared to think it would likely have  cost around £200. I intend to require Gresham  to pay 
this to Ms H in lieu of it having had chance to complete a repair.
Gresham said it agreed with my findings.  Ms H said she did not. She said when the area had 
been investigated another leak was found   where  Gresham was meant  to have completed 
Ref: DRN03189183a repair, and she had to repair this. Ms H said that Greshams reluctant and non-caring 
attitude since 2016 warranted  £500  compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Ms H, Ive not changed my view on this complaint. 
I appreciate that Ms H thinks £500 compensation is due. But given what Ive seen, and what  
Im satisfied Gresham is liable for, Im satisfied that a payment by Gresham  of £200  is a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances here. If Ms H wants to make  a further claim to 
Gresham for any costs she had to repair another leak she can do so.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Gresham Insurance Company Limited  to pay 
Ms H £200  in lieu of it being able to reinstate the area of concrete it laid near the manhole 
cover at Ms Hs property in 2017.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0318918