K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about his home  insurer St Andrews  Insurance Plc (St Andrews) 
because it has declined  his claim made  following a theft from his home.
background
Mr M made a claim to St Andrews when he found  items missing from a locked drawer  in his 
bedside table after his girlfriend had left his home following their relationship  ending.  Mr Ms 
girlfriend had been visiting for a while at the time but had left and then returned to collect her 
belongings. It was after the final visit that Mr M found items were missing.  He made a police 
report and contacted St Andrews.
St Andrews  declined the claim. It pointed to a policy exclusion which removed any liability  it 
had for theft by guests invited into the home.  Mr M was unhappy  and complained to this 
service. In his complaint  form he said St Andrews decline was unfair  because, in his view, 
she was not an invited guest. He said:
.I allowed  her access to my house - although  I did not consider her a guest but was 
merely tolerating her presence so that she could remove her bags.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He accepted Mr M had no choice but to allow 
his ex-girlfriend to collect  her belongings but felt that in doing so he had effectively made  her 
an invited guest. Given the policy wording he felt St Andrews decline was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr M said he had only allowed his ex-girlfriend  to stand in the porch.  He hadnt permitted her 
access to the rest of the house. However, whilst he was taking her bags out to the taxi she 
went inside  without his authorisation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy has a clear  exclusion  regarding invited  guests.  Whether  a person is given access 
to a property under  sufferance or is welcomed  in with open arms they are an invited guest 
because they are there with the permission  of the owner. Only if they gained  access  to a 
property without the authorisation or permission of the owner  would they be considered  to 
not have been invited.
Based on what Mr M told us initially in his complaint  form, his ex-girlfriend was given access  
to his property. So I think St Andrews  decline  on the basis  of her being  an invited guest was 
fair and reasonable. 
I know Mr M has since provided further clarification as to what happened that night but I note 
that this hasnt been given  before despite  Mr M having been arguing  for a long time as to 
why the lady in question wasnt an invited guest.  The difficulty for Mr M in this respect  though 
is that there  are other exclusions that apply to this cover.  Therefore, even where I to accept 
that Mr Ms ex-girlfriend deceived him into allowing her access  to the rest of the home  by 
seemingly agreeing to remain  in the porch until entering the rest of the house whilst his back 
was turned  that wouldnt necessarily mean St Andrews should  accept the claim.  There  are 
Ref: DRN06845592exclusions to cover where no force or violence  is used  to enter the home and for where the 
theft occurs  by virtue of entry being gained by deception. 
Essentially St Andrews,  like many  insurers, doesnt  want to be liable for thefts by people with 
easy access to the home. I know Mr M felt duty bound to allow  access  to his ex-girlfriend for 
the purposes of collecting  her things. But in doing that I think he, unintentionally, left the 
property at risk. And as this was a risk that St Andrews had specifically chosen not to be 
liable for, I cant fairly make it accept the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0684559