K822xcomplaint
Mr F says Elevate  Credit  International Limited trading as Sunny lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Sunny provided  Mr F with six loans between 24 February 2015 and 22 June 2015. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest  Repayment
1 24/02/2015 31/03/2015 6 £100.00 £33.35
2 31/03/2015 13/04/2015 6 £850.00 £282.33
3 27/05/2015 28/05/2015 6 £100.00 £34.13
4 12/06/2015 Outstanding 6 £250.00 £76.76
5 17/06/2015 08/06/2018 6 £200.00 £136.04
6 22/06/2015 09/10/2017 6 £150.00 £178.83
It seems  three loans were  subject to a repayment plan and that there  is a balance 
outstanding on loan four.
An adjudicator reviewed the case and thought  that Sunny had done  enough when  it 
provided Mr F with loans one to five. However,  he didnt think loan six shouldve been  given 
to Mr F as his borrowing indicated he had become persistently reliant  on short  term loans. 
Sunny agreed  with the adjudicators view and decided to make an offer on loan six. This 
included a refund of interest and charges on loan 6 and for it to be removed  from Mr Fs 
credit file. The offer was outlined to Mr F but he didnt  accept  it. Mr F said that he could  not 
afford the loans and he was taking out consecutive loans because of this. He also didnt 
think any loan above £200 was appropriate  based on his lending patterns and financial 
situation at the time. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to me  on ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I think Sunny needed to do more when it gave Mr F 
loan 6. The offer it has made is in-line  with our approach to short-term lending  disputes and I 
dont think it has treated Mr F unfairly or that it should pay him compensation for loans one to 
five. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F and Id like to explain why I think  this 
is the case.
Mr F was provided with high-interest loans,  intended  for short-term use. So Sunny needed to
make sure that it didnt  provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is that Sunny
needed to carry  out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending  was
sustainable for Mr F before providing  it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks
Ref: DRN01112692were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In his complaint  Mr F says that Sunny didnt lend to him responsibly because he was taking 
out consecutive  loans. He also says that any loan of £200 or more  shouldnt have been 
given due to his circumstances at the time. Sunny  says that it carried out adequate checks   
by gathering details  of Mr Fs income  and expenditure.  And based on this Sunny says it 
didnt see anything to alert it to any sustainability or affordability issues for the loans one to 
five for Mr F.
Its important to note that when Mr F took out his first loan with Sunny it doesnt seem  that
he had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid over 6 instalments
of around £33. Mr F had told Sunny his income  was around £2,100 and he had an 
expenditure of around £400 so this seems affordable  for Mr F. 
Loan 2 was for £850 which was a significant increase in the lending.  But this was also 
spread over six instalments. And Ive looked at what Mr Fs disposable income was after 
hed made  the repayment and he was still left with a reasonable amount.  
Loans three, four and five were for smaller amounts. Sunny  carried  out checks on Mr F for 
all these loans and these  didnt reveal  anything  of particular concern
Looking at the monthly repayments in light of Mr Fs declared disposable income its difficult
for me to conclude  that Sunny was wrong to decide  that the repayments would be affordable
sustainably for Mr F. I note what he says about  these loans forcing him into taking further
loans. But I dont think there were signs which shouldve led Sunny to do more checks and
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that it acted irresponsibly in giving loans one 
to five. 
However, I think Sunny needed to do more when  it provided loan six as Mr Fs pattern of 
borrowing showed he had become  reliant  on short term lending. As Sunny has already 
agreed with this, it should put things right as set out below.  
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr F loan six.
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mr F towards
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not
including anything it has already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Ref: DRN01112693Mr F which were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr F as though they had been  
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr F having  made  
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated
in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr F. However,  if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Sunny should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F.
E) The overall pattern  of Mr Fs borrowing for loan six means any information
recorded about them is adverse, so you should  remove these loans entirely  from Mr Fs 
credit file. If Sunny has sold on the loan it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny  should give Mr
F a certificate  showing how much tax youve deducted, if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Fs complaint. Elevate Credit  International 
Limited should put things right for Mr F as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr F to accept or reject  my decision before 
30 April 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0111269