K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  about  Tesco Underwriting Limiteds decision to settle a claim under 
her car insurance policy as a fault claim.  Miss P has also complained about the service she 
received from Tesco.
background
In May 2018  Miss P was involved in an incident  with another  car and she reported it to her 
insurer, Tesco. Tesco settled the claim as a fault claim.
Miss P was very unhappy about Tescos decision but it said it had acted correctly. 
Miss P asked us to look at her complaint and raised  a number of additional issues  which the 
investigator addressed.  The investigator  thought Tesco had acted reasonably  and in line 
with the policy.  
Miss P didnt agree and wants  an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
We dont decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether  an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.  I appreciate  Miss P feels 
we have decided  liability in this case.  However  its a subtle but important distinction  which  
we make.
Miss Ps policy with Tesco says it can defend or settle any claim in Miss Ps name.  This is a 
very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor  insurance policies Ive seen. 
This term means that Tesco might make a decision that Miss P doesnt agree with but the 
policy allows  it to do this. We dont  disagree  with this term in principle  provided  an insurer 
can show it treated its customer fairly  when  it applied the term.
Miss P told Tesco that she was in a right hand lane approaching an island.  As she went 
round the island she proceeded to go straight on. She said the other car collided into her car 
from the left hand  lane.  She believed they were at fault. 
Tesco looked online  at an aerial  view of the island. Approaching the island,  the right hand  
lane was for drivers turning right only. But the left hand lane was for drivers travelling either 
left, straight  on or right. So because Miss P said she was travelling straight  on, Tesco told 
her it wouldnt  be able to defend the other drivers  claim as she was in a right hand only lane. 
The third party was correctly proceeding in a lane which  allowed them to go either left, 
straight on or right. 
So even though Miss P doesnt  agree - based  on the account she gave Tesco I think  Tesco  
reached its decision to settle  the claim as a fault claim  in a fair and reasonable way. 
I understand that Miss P wanted Tesco to defend the matter  in court  but Tesco  was 
entitled to make a decision  that it was better to settle  the claim than risk significant costs in 
defending the matter  in court  where the evidence showed it had little chance of success. 
Ref: DRN01343632Miss P said that the other driver didnt  stop at the scene and she came across  the other 
driver later on. But I dont  think this makes a difference.  It doesnt change the account Miss P 
gave as to how the incident occurred.
Ive considered all of Miss Ps points that shes raised since  the investigator gave her view. I 
think its reasonable to expect a degree  of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. 
Tesco decided it wasnt economical  to repair Miss Ps car. It was driveable. The repairer 
offered to return the car to Miss P on the Monday  but Miss P collected her car from the 
approved repairer  on the Saturday  just over a week after the incident was reported. The 
incident was reported to Tesco the previous Friday evening and the Monday was a bank 
holiday. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Tesco dealt with Miss Ps complaint reasonably.  So I think 
its decision to record the claim  as a fault claim stands. I therefore dont think it needs to do 
any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2019. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134363