K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that MCE Insurance Company  Limited  ended  up settling a claim by a third 
party under his motorcycle insurance policy. This was a result  of a county court judgement  
(CCJ) against him. And hes also unhappy  that this is now on his credit record.  
background
Mr D was in a motorbike  accident in March  2017. He believed  he was not to blame  for the 
accident. The insurer appointed solicitors. Mr D was interviewed by the police following the 
incident and after CCTV evidence was inspected. Mr D was told by the police that he could 
have done more to prevent the accident happening.  The solicitors decided  to obtain the 
CCTV footage  to review  the case.
Mr D says that in July 2018  he received  documents that said he was being taken to court by 
the third party  insurer.  He contacted MCE and passed all the documents to it. Later that year 
Mr D was notified that his credit report had been  amended and a CCJ had been registered  
against him. MCE says that it paid the settlement on time.
Mr D complained to MCE, who upheld his complaint in part and offered him £200 because  of 
the CCJ. MCE said it was trying to get the CCJ removed from his credit record, but Mr D 
wasnt happy with the response so he complained to us.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that MCE was entitled - under 
the terms of the policy - to settle  the third partys  claim. And that it had acted reasonably in 
doing so. But she thought  that MCE could have done more to avoid the CCJ against  Mr D. 
She thought  that Mr D would have found  getting a CCJ distressing and she thought  that 
MCE should pay Mr D a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced as 
a result of this.
MCE did not agree with the investigator. Because it had paid the judgement  within 28 days it 
didnt feel that a CCJ should have  been recorded against Mr D. MCE thought it was the third 
party insurers responsibility  to inform the court that the payment had been made on time.
Mr D was happy with the £400  as compensation.
The matter  has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence I can see that MCE was not prompt  in dealing with the proceedings that 
were issued against Mr D. MCE also admitted that it failed to respond to the date the court  
gave and this resulted  in a CCJ being  registered  against Mr D.
I can see MCE sent the payment to the third party insurers by BACS and it was released on 
the 28th day following the judgement. But the court was not informed payment was received 
until after the 30 day period allowed to pay a judgement. Because of this Mr D had a CCJ 
entered against him. It showed as satisfied, which means the payment was made but not 
within the 30 day period.
Ref: DRN08021122What should have happened is MCE or its solicitors should have settled  without the need for 
the case to go to court or at the very least, tried to defend the case. This means Mr D 
wouldnt have had the judgement recorded  against  him. 
MCE have not been  clear  whose responsibility  it was to let the court know  payment was 
made in time. MCE incorrectly thought it was down  to the TP insurer to tell the court  the 
judgement had been paid.  When it could have done this and provided  the court with proof it 
was paid within 30 days or it could have got the proof off the TP insurer  and sent this to the 
court. The court would  then mark it as cancelled,  as opposed to satisfied and it would come  
off Mr Ds record.
MCE had asked the third party insurer to sign a consent order to set the judgement aside 
and it had coordinated with a credit reference agency to remove  the CCJ from Mr Ds record. 
But MCE hadnt provided the court of proof  of payment as suggested. 
We have been  in contact with MCE and its solicitors recently to find out whether the CCJ has 
been cancelled.  MCE was looking to have the CCJ removed and had got its solicitor to 
contact the credit reference agency  to remove the CCJ from Mr Ds credit record.  And I 
understand that the credit reference agency  can ensure that the CCJ is removed from all the 
credit reference agencys records.  And I have recently been told that the CCJ was finally 
cancelled on the 12 September.  This means  the CCJ is also removed from the court record 
to make sure that Mr D does  not suffer any prejudice in future. And I think this will also 
ensure it doesnt  come  up on any credit checks done on him.
MCE was responsible for the initial error that resulted  in the CCJ being issued. I think that 
had it originally responded  to the date the court gave it then Mr D would not have had the 
CCJ recorded against him. It then didnt act reasonably  or promptly in trying to cancel the 
CCJ. Although Mr D has been caused  distress  and inconvenience because of how long the 
CCJ has remained on his record, he hasnt said hes incurred any specific financial losses as 
a result of the CCJ. I therefore think MCE should pay Mr D £400 in total as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  its errors caused  him. I think  this amount reflects the level of 
distress and inconvenience he experienced, bearing  in mind what  happened  must have 
been very frustrating  and worrying for him. 
Ref: DRN08021123Mr D is also unhappy that MCE  didnt get the CCTV evidence and defend the third party 
claim against him. MCE should  have done this, but even if it had I think  it would have ended 
up settling it. It had a right to do this under  the policy and I think it would have been 
reasonable based on what  happened. The police officer did consider the CCTV evidence  
when he interviewed  Mr D. The officer said Mr D could have done  more to prevent the 
accident. Mr D wasnt prosecuted, but attended  a safety awareness course. This suggests 
Mr D was responsible for the accident. And I think this would most likely  have  led to MCE 
agreeing to settle the third partys  claim.  This would have meant Mr D having a fault claim 
recorded against his record, but not having a CCJ ever recorded against him. Now the CCJ 
is cancelled hes back in the position he should  have been in. But he has experienced 
distress and inconvenience and  as Ive already said I think  compensation of £400 is 
appropriate for this.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint 
I require MCE Insurance  Company Limited to pay Mr D a further £200 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0802112