K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Equifax Limited discriminated against  him when it refused to change the 
name on his credit report after he married and that it added  an unwanted notice of correction 
to his credit  file. 
background 
On 29 July 2018 Mr B contacted Equifax to ask that the name on his credit file be changed 
as he had recently married. He provided  a copy of his marriage certificate.  
On 31 July Equifax  wrote  to Mr B saying  that it couldnt add alias information to his credit file 
at the moment.  But it could  add a notice of correction stating that hed changed his name by 
deed poll. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with this so he called Equifax. The first operator he spoke with had poor 
English, so Mr B asked  to be transferred to someone else.  When Mr B explained his request, 
the Equifax representative said at least four times that having  an alias was only possible for 
female customers. The representative repeated that the only option  it currently  had was to 
offer a notice of correction. Mr B asked  that his query be treated as a complaint.
On 7 August  2018 Equifax responded to his complaint. It said it was sorry to learn that it had 
been unable  to amend  his surname when he contacted  it. Equifax said it had now manually 
changed his name, and had added a notice of correction  to his credit  report  saying hed 
changed his name by marriage. It apologised for any inconvenience caused.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. He said hed been  treated differently because he was a 
man, and hed been made to feel small.  He wanted compensation and to know what Equifax 
would do in future. Hed asked Equifax to remove the notice of correction but it hadnt done 
so yet.
Our adjudicator thought that Equifax hadnt  acted fairly. She thought that refusing to change 
his surname because  he was a man was discrimination under the Equality Act. She said 
Equifax had told us that its agents had given him incorrect information,  and theyd been  
given feedback on how to handle similar  queries in future.  It also told us it wasnt able to 
change Mr Bs name in the same way as it could for women due to system limitations but it 
had been changed using  a different  method. Equifax had also said that if Mr B wanted the 
notice of correction  removed it would do so, and it would  pay Mr B £150 compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience. Our adjudicator  thought  this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr B didnt think £150 compensation was enough  to cover the emotional impact, let alone 
legal complications.  He thought the fact hed been  discriminated against  by two different  
advisers meant Equifax policies and training werent sufficient to comply  with the Equality 
Act, adjudicator and all their advisers believe that its OK to refuse to update someones 
surname by marriage because of their sex. He thought  all Equifax advisers  should  be forced 
to revisit the Equality Act, and not just the two he dealt with. He wasnt  confident this 
wouldnt happen again to another male.  He thought Equifax had had nine years since the 
Equality Act to change its systems to remove system limitations. Mr B said he felt bullied and 
as if hed made a mistake.  He wanted  the notice  of correction removed as soon as possible. 
Our adjudicator said we werent in a position  to ask Equifax to change its systems. And the 
compensation was for customer service he received when he spoke to Equifax and not for 
Ref: DRN00739562ongoing discrimination, since  his name  had been  changed on the system. She said the 
feedback was being provided to wider  teams  at Equifax. 
Mr B referred us to the scale contained  in an Equality and Human Rights Commission  that 
set out court  guidance for compensation for injury  to feelings.  He said he would need 
something closer to the lowest band  of £900 if it wished to keep the matter out of court. Our 
investigator said our service wasnt the same as the courts. She also provided Mr B with 
what Equifax had said about  feedback  to its agents.  
After this, Mr B said hed made some anonymous calls to Equifax to see if the situation had 
changed, and it hadnt. This didnt change our adjudicators view,  and Mr B confirmed he 
didnt accept the offer. 
The complaint then came to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr B is distressed at his 
treatment by Equifax.  Thats understandable.  But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint 
him, as I think £150 is fair compensation for his distress and inconvenience  caused by the 
customer service  failings  in this case. 
By the time the case came to me for decision,  Equifax had acknowledged it had done the 
wrong thing, and had offered to pay Mr B £150  compensation.  Our adjudicator  thought that 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Mr B doesnt,  for the reasons Ive set out in 
brief in the background to this decision.  
Ive no doubt Mr B has experienced distress because of Equifaxs treatment  of his request to 
change his name. And hes been inconvenienced  because Equifax didnt amend his name 
when he first asked them  to on 29 July. He had to telephone Equifax and then when that 
didnt result in change,  ask for his query  to be treated as a complaint. And it was only after 
our involvement that Equifax agreed  to remove the notice of correction if Mr B asks it to. So 
Im satisfied that Mr B has experienced distress and inconvenience and that some 
compensation is justified.  
Mr B has pointed  us to the HREOC  guidance setting out the range of awards the courts 
make for injury  to feeling. These are known as the Vento bands. The lowest  amount in the 
bands is £900. Given this, I can understand why Mr B feels an offer of £150 is too low. But 
as our adjudicator  said, the ombudsman service is not the courts.  I look at what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And I cant punish the business, or award  
compensation to teach  it a lesson. 
It took Equifax  less than ten days to agree to amend Mr Bs name on its systems. And it did 
offer a limited apology  in its response  to his complaint. So I think  that £150 compensation is 
reasonable. 
I accept Mr B didnt want a notice of correction included on his file, but I do think Equifax did 
this to be helpful and to benefit Mr B. But since Mr B has said he wants  it removed, and I 
dont know if this has yet been done, I will tell Equifax  to do this. 
Ref: DRN00739563Mr B has raised questions about  whether  Equifax have actually taken steps  to ensure this 
discrimination doesnt happen again.  Its commendable he is concerned  for others. But Im 
afraid my role is only to look at individual complaints, I dont have the ability  to tell Equifax to 
take wider steps  or to change  its systems. Im sorry if that disappoints Mr B. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Equifax Limited must:
(a)pay Mr B £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience;  and
(b)remove the notice  of correction if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0073956