K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1991. Mr and Ms G say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them  the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI policy covered Mr G only so Ive mainly  considered his circumstances at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Ms Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Ms G aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent
before adding it to their mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time Mr and Ms G
applied for their mortgage and PPI but Halifax has provided a copy  of the available 
paperwork. An application  form that was separate to the mortgage  was completed and
signed by Mr G to take the policy. So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and
Ms G didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can
understand why they may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr G
has told us he would  have  been entitled to sick pay when he took the policy. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Gs sick pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time he wasnt  affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and Mr and Ms G seem  to have had a need for 
the cover. So, I think it was right for them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been.  But Mr G chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks
like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them
off taking out the cover.
Mr and Ms G have  said they had reason to claim on the policy but didnt. I dont think this 
means Halifax mis-sold the policy and Mr and Ms G should contact the insurer  of the policy 
directly if they have a reason to make  a claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms G to
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2020.
Ref: DRN04662742Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0466274