K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC rejected her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a hotel booking.
background
In August  Ms C booked  a hotel room through  an online web site I will call B. She says she 
was told she didnt  have  to pay until arrival. However, payment  was taken from her credit 
card immediately. She cancelled the booking and only later discovered that payment had 
been taken. She sought a refund from both B and the hotel but without success.
She then contacted Tesco. It said she was too late for it to make a chargeback  request and it 
believed the required  debtor-creditor- supplier (DCS) link was broken. It said the booking 
confirmation she had was through B and this broke the link.
Ms C brought her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who recommend it be upheld. He noted the payment was taken  by the hotel  
and he concluded  the chain hadnt been  broken. He believed the debtor was Ms C, the 
creditor Tesco and the supplier the hotel.  He didnt think Bs role in facilitating the booking 
was such that it interposed itself into the chain.  
He added that he needed to be satisfied there  had been a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the hotel.  He thought it clear from Bs terms and conditions that their terms are 
not to be implied  into the hotels terms and conditions. These  state:
By making a trip Reservation with a Trip Provider, you accept and agree to the relevant 
cancellation and no-show  policy of that Trip Provider, and to any additional (delivery) terms 
and conditions of the Trip Provider that may apply to your trip.
Ms C was able to provide a copy of the hotels terms and conditions  which  said:
Cancellation Policy:  Standard reservations- if cancelled within 48 hours of day of arrival or in 
the case of a no-show 100% of the booking value will be charged.
Ms C had made a reservation with the hotel and cancelled with more than 48 hours notice. 
So, he felt it should  not have charged  Ms Cs credit  card and he recommend that Tesco 
refund the charge.
Tesco didnt  agree and said that it believed the DCS link had been broken. It believed  Ms C 
had entered into a contract with B rather than the hotel. It also wondered why Ms C hadnt 
sought a refund from B. The investigator  explained  that he had spoken to B who had 
suggested Ms C make  a claim  direct,  but when she did it was rejected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
Ref: DRN08865092against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I have looked  closely at the documentation supplied by B when Ms C made  her booking. It 
clearly states that payment is to be made  to the overseas hotel. I also note that VAT rate it 
has charged is that for the overseas country and not the UK. That adds to the view that B 
was merely facilitating a booking between Ms C and the hotel.
I also looked at Bs website which  says that: When you make a booking  via the B website 
you are committed  in a direct contractual relationship  to the provider  with whom you made  
the reservation.  It also says that its role is to provide an online booking service through  
which all accommodation providers, such as hoteliers, and other providers can offer their 
products and booking services,  and the website  users  can use to make a reservation.
It is clear to me that Bs role is as a facilitator  which puts suppliers (hotels  etc.) and buyers 
(holidaymakers etc.) in contact. It doesnt enter into a contract with the consumer. Therefore 
in this case the DCS link is as set out by the investigator and it hasnt been broken.
I am also satisfied that the hotel broke its terms and conditions and so section 75 applies. 
Ms C had the right to cancel when she did and the hotel failed to refund her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
refund the cost of the hotel and to reconstruct Ms Cs card account  from when the 
transaction was applied  to the card. This should  take into account any extra interest or 
associated charges that Ms C was charged. If, after doing this Ms C was out of pocket, it 
should pay 8% simple interest per year from when  she was first out of pocket until she gets it 
back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0886509