K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) mis-sold them  a fee-paying  
Signature account  in October  2009. They say they were not told they could have a fee-free 
account, the account was upgraded without their consent and that they werent made aware 
that they had a packaged bank account.
Theyve used a Claims Management  Company  (CMC) to make  this complaint. 
background
Our adjudicator looked into Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. And they didnt  think  Clydesdale  had 
mis-sold the account  to Mr and Mrs L. 
The CMC disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Having reviewed 
everything, I dont think Clydesdale  mis-sold the packaged account to Mr and Mrs L. Id like 
to explain why I think thats the case.  
The CMC has said that Mr and Mrs L didnt know theyd been sold a packaged account and 
werent made aware that fee-free accounts were available. But, given the circumstances, I 
think that Mr and Mrs L freely chose to take the packaged account and knew  that it was 
optional. I say this particularly as they previously held a fee-free account with an overdraft 
when they agreed  to upgrade their account  and they went  on to make  extensive use of the 
Signature account  benefits.
I havent seen  anything here to suggest that the packaged account was recommended  to 
them either. So Clydesdale didnt have to check if it was right for them.  But it did still have to 
give them  enough  information about  the account  so that they could make an informed 
choice. 
Mr and Mrs L say that they held some of the account benefits elsewhere. But Mr and Mrs L 
declared medical conditions to the travel insurer and claimed on the breakdown cover 
provided by the account. The account  also provided a reduced interest  rate on overdrafts. 
And at the time Mr and Mrs Ls agreed  overdraft limit was £4,100  and I can see from 
statements that they were  regularly using  their overdraft. So Mr and Mrs L were clearly  
aware of, and relying on, at least some  of the benefits provided by the account.
It may have been the case that Mr and Mrs L were  not told everything  about all of the 
benefits. But, given  their circumstances at the time, I dont think they wouldve been  put off 
from upgrading their account had they been  given better information about  it. And I think 
they were given enough information to know and understand what  they were choosing  to 
agree to. 
Ref: DRN04576182So, having  weighed everything up, I dont think the fee-paying Signature account  was mis-
sold to Mr and Mrs L.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against  
Clydesdale Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0457618