K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her chargeback  claim.
background
Miss F purchased a double glazed  window  and door from a company I will call S in 
September 2018 and paid with her Barclays card.
Miss F says the door isnt what  she ordered and the window  doesnt close  properly. She 
asked Barclays to make a chargeback request, which it did. Miss F was provided with a 
temporary credit of £2440  in January  2019  whilst the investigation was ongoing.
The merchant responded to the chargeback so in February 2019 Barclays wrote  to Miss F 
requesting further  information. Barclays didnt receive a response from Miss F. It deemed 
her dispute  unsuccessful and removed the temporary credit.
Miss F says she didnt receive the letter asking her for further information. She wants  
Barclays to re-open  the chargeback but it has said it is unable  to do this.
Miss F was unhappy with Barclays  response so she complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said Barclays  had shown that it sent the 
letter asking for further information to Miss F at the correct address and that it was 
reasonable to assume it was received. The investigator also said that because Miss F hadnt 
provided the requested information it was reasonable for Barclays to close  the dispute.
Miss F didnt agree. She said if she had received  the letter from Barclays  she wouldve sent 
in the information requested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback rules are set by the card providers and not by Barclays.  Its an informal 
process with no guarantee of success.  I would expect a bank or building society  to raise  a 
chargeback where  appropriate and I can see thats  what happened  here.  
Chargebacks are decided  based  on the card schemes rules, not the relative  merits of the 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for Barclays  or me  to decide whether the 
chargeback shouldve succeeded. Barclays role is to raise the chargeback and consider 
whether any defence received from the merchant complies with the rules. From what Ive 
seen, thats what  Barclays did here.
Im satisfied that Barclays raised  the chargeback and, upon receiving the defence,  wrote  to 
Miss F to obtain further information. Ive looked at the letter which  Barclays sent to Miss F on 
2 February 2019.  Its correctly addressed  to Miss F and Ive got no reason to think it wasnt 
sent and delivered.
Ref: DRN00515342Miss F has said she never  received the letter, and that if she had received it she wouldve 
responded. Its possible that the letter wasnt delivered but it wouldnt  be fair to hold Barclays  
responsible for the failings of the postal service. Ive also taken into account the fact that 
Miss F has said she was busy and had also been  on holiday at around this time. So its 
possible that Miss F overlooked the letter  from Barclays.
Under the VISA chargeback scheme  rules  theres  a period of time within which  a merchant 
must dispute a chargeback. I can see that the merchant disputed the chargeback within  this 
timescale and Barclays  wrote to Miss F and asked  her to respond and provide further 
information within 7 days. Miss F didnt respond  until several weeks later. In the 
circumstances I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Barclays to close  the dispute  once the 
deadline for Miss F to respond had passed.
I appreciate that Miss F wants Barclays to re-open  the chargeback. However, the VISA 
chargeback scheme  rules  say that the same dispute cant be raised more than once. So I 
cant say that Barclays  has acted unfairly by not allowing  Miss F to raise  the chargeback 
again.
I appreciate Miss Fs disappointment that her doors and windows arent of the standard she 
expected. But I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably under  the 
chargeback rules.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0051534