K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains Clydesdale Bank  Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank)  has unfairly applied 
charges to her bank  account since 2003  which have left her in financial hardship.
background
Mrs K says since  2003 her circumstances  have changed. She had a career break and then 
returned to work part time. With the reduction  in her earnings shes  struggled to keep  her 
account in credit.
Yorkshire said itd reviewed its charges for the last six years and it was satisfied itd applied 
them in line with its terms and conditions. So it didnt think  itd done  anything wrong.
Our investigator explained to Mrs K that this Service could only look at the charges Yorkshire 
had applied  in the last six years and Mrs K said she understood the reasons why that was. 
Our investigator considered those charges and she could see Yorkshire  had applied  them  in 
line with its terms and conditions. So she didnt think itd done anything  wrong.  And she 
couldnt see Mrs K had told Yorkshire  of her financial  difficulties before October 2018. And 
since then itd suggested she speak to its financial management team to get some advice 
about managing  her account. It also gave her details of independent organisations that could 
help her. So she didnt think it needed  to do anything more.
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this. She said that over the last six years Yorkshire had increased 
her financial  difficulties by applying these charges. Itd returned  direct debits as she was over 
her overdraft limit. This shouldve alerted the bank to her financial difficulties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision but Ive come  to the same conclusion as 
our investigator for very similar  reasons.  I can see shes  taken everything into account so 
theres not much I can add to what shes already told Mrs K.
Yorkshire applied  its fees and charges in line with its terms and conditions. So I cant fairly  
find it made any mistake over how it applied them. 
I cant see theres any evidence that Mrs K told Yorkshire about  any financial difficulties until 
October 2018. And since then I think its acted positively and sympathetically in trying to help 
her. 
But Mrs K says Yorkshire shouldve been aware of her difficulties  before then due to her 
account history. Ive looked through all her statements  and there were times  when  Mrs K did 
go over her agreed overdraft limit but she quickly brought  it back  under control. And there 
were occasions when a direct debit was returned  but not so often  to give Yorkshire cause for 
concerns about  any possible financial hardship Mrs K might be experiencing.
So for those reasons I cant fairly  find Yorkshire  has done anything  wrong.  
Ref: DRN08786752my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0878675