K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). Hes 
unhappy with Prudentials actions following a payment it made to him in error.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 September 2019. Ive recapped the background below:
In 2017 Prudential contacted Mr A and advised  that he had a Personal Retirement Plan with 
it from which a cash lump  sum payment was available. Mr A made  his Independent  Financial 
Adviser (IFA)  aware  of the matter that made further  enquiries on his behalf. 
With the help of his IFA Mr A considered  his options  and later decided to take the cash lump  
sum payment Prudential  said was available. Further to this Prudential  paid Mr A a cash lump  
sum of £8,259.64  in April 2018.
In June 2018 Mr A received a letter from Prudential  advising  that the cash lump sum 
payment it made to him in April had been an error. Prudential explained:
the plan the cash  lump  sum payment didnt belong to Mr A
following receipt of a change of address a plan was incorrectly  identified as belonging 
to Mr A and a claim form was sent for the plan in error
Mr A wasnt legally entitled to keep the money so it had to ask that he return it
it was sorry for any upset or inconvenience  caused
Prudential said Mr A would need to repay the £8,259.64 overpayment.  But Prudential also 
advised that if Mr A wasnt  in a positon  to repay  the full amount  straight  away he should  let it 
know so it could help him decide the best way forward. 
In July 2018 Mr As IFA wrote to Prudential on Mr As behalf to complain. In summary it said:
Mr A was very upset  about being asked  to repay such a significant amount of money 
hed genuinely  thought  was his
Mr A accepted Prudential made the payment in error but was unhappy with how long 
it had taken to identify the mistake
Mr A had already  spent most  of  the money  hed received on home improvements
on 14 September 2017  Mr A had queried  with Prudential whether  it was confusing 
him with another person with the same name but never received a response
Mr A had already  planned to use the money he received  to invest  in a new boiler,  
help his daughter  with rent, pay for a holiday, make a cash  injection to his business 
and pay for a new bathroom
Mr A no longer had the money  to repay  the amount Prudential was asking for. And to 
make such  a repayment would cause Mr A severe financial hardship 
as Mr As IFAs it would also be charging  Prudential for the time it had spent on this 
matter since it hadnt  charged Mr A.
Prudential responded to Mr As complaint via his IFA. In summary it said:
it had made a serious error making  the cash lump sum payment to Mr A and was 
very sorry for what  happened
Ref: DRN01385962it had missed opportunities to correct matters before  the claims process was 
completed 
Mr A had an annuity with it that was already in payment  so it understood Mr A 
genuinely believed  the plan it had written to him about was his
Prudential would  look to retrieve the overpaid  money but explained an arrangement 
could be reached  if Mr A contacted it directly
Mr As IFA was invited to send Prudential  its invoice  for time taken regarding the 
cash lump sum payment made  in error  and said every effort would be made to get 
this settled
Prudential wrote to Mr A on the same day and asked again that he repay the cash lump  sum 
payment incorrectly made to him.
Unhappy with Prudentials  response  Mr A with the help of his IFA referred his complaint to 
our service.
Following the referral of Mr As complaint to our service, Prudential  said that as a gesture of 
goodwill in recognition of trouble and upset caused  it was happy to reduce the amount Mr A 
needed to repay by £759.64- from £8,259.64  to £7,500.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
Prudentials error  had caused Mr A and his family a lot of distress
Prudentials request that Mr A pay back the cash lump  sum wasnt  unreasonable  
since the money wasnt his
given the amount  Mr A needed  to repay  she thought  it was fair a reasonable 
repayment plan was arranged between Mr A and Prudential
Prudentials offer to reduce the amount Mr A owed by £759.64 was fair but she also 
thought it should  pay him £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused
Prudential responded and clarified that its offer to reduce the outstanding  debt by £759.64 
was in respect of trouble and upset  caused. As Mr A needed to return money  to it its usual  
practice was to reduce the outstanding debt rather than send a further payment to him. 
Because of this Prudential didnt agree a further  payment of £200 was reasonable. 
Mr A responded and said there was no way to estimate the level of upset caused by 
Prudentials error. He said that given the grief caused to his family and especially his wife he 
wasnt happy with our investigators  view. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a decision. And my 
provisional findings were  as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Im intending to partially 
uphold Mr As complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive 
taken note of all the arguments  made by both parties, I have limited my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say:
whether its reasonable for Prudential to request Mr A returns  the money it paid to 
him in error
Ref: DRN01385963whether the action  Prudential has already taken and proposed to take in respect  of 
the error  it made is sufficient 
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr A. Theres no dispute  about the fact that 
Prudential made  an error  with the £8,259.64 cash lump sum payment it paid to him. I have  
no doubt Mr A accepted  the payment in good  faith.  Indeed I think  the fact that Mr A enlisted 
the help of his IFA and made reasonable enquiries about the plan Prudential led him to 
believe belonged  to him (which the cash lump  sum payment was coming from), supports 
this. 
When it later became apparent Prudential had made a mistake and paid Mr A money from a 
plan which  wasnt his, Mr A was understandably extremely  upset  and very disappointed.  
Prudential without a doubt unfairly  raised  Mr As expectations. This was also avoidable.
As Prudential has explained, it mistakenly  mismatched  details for Mr A and another 
customer which led to a plan being  linked to him in error.  This should never have happened 
and from what Ive seen  Im satisfied Prudential recognises how serious  this matter has been  
for all parties involved.
The issue  I have to decide is whether the action Prudential has taken following its error is 
reasonable and satisfactorily resolves  the matter considering everything that happened.
Upon identifying its mistake Prudential apologised for any distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr A and confirmed the money  Mr A had received  in error would need to be 
returned. 
Although responsible for what happened, Im satisfied Prudential  isnt bound by its error. In a 
situation like this, we aim to put a consumer  back in the position  they would have been in, 
had the correct action/information been  taken/given at the outset. So for Mr A, the correct  
position is that the £8,259.64 cash lump  sum payment he received  in error should be 
returned to Prudential. Mr A was never  entitled to the cash lump sum payment he received 
and so it wouldnt be fair for him to benefit from Prudentials mistake  by keeping  the money. 
Because of this I dont consider Prudentials request that Mr A return the money incorrectly 
paid to him to be unreasonable. 
I dont underestimate  the difficult position Mr A finds himself in now Prudential has requested  
he return the money he received. As has been explained in submissions to this service most 
of the money  Mr A received from Prudential in error has already been  spent  in various ways.  
Because of this as well as the size of the lump  sum payment Prudential has asked to be 
returned I can appreciate  how concerned Mr A will be about the potential financial impact of 
this. And Im sure this has in turn caused  Mr A further worry.
Im very sympathetic to Mr As concerns  and understand that repaying the £8,259.64 cash  
lump sum payment to Prudential isnt something he (or his family) can currently comfortably 
afford to do. But from what Ive seen Prudential has been mindful of this and taken  Mr As 
difficult circumstances into consideration when suggesting a way forward.  As part of its 
requests that the £8,259.64 be repaid,  Prudential  has said that if Mr A isnt in a position  to 
repay the full amount straight  away hes invited to let it know  so it can work with him to 
decide the best way to repay the money.  This is the level of accommodation Id expect  from 
Prudential in the circumstances so I cant reasonably conclude that Prudential isnt treating 
Ref: DRN01385964Mr A fairly. Id encourage Mr A to engage  directly  with Prudential (if he hasnt already done 
so) so a mutually  acceptable and agreeable repayment plan be arranged. 
In addition to its apologies and offer of a suitable  repayment arrangement  I see that 
Prudential has also recognised that its error resulted in Mr As IFA carrying out unnecessary 
work on Mr As behalf. Specifically Prudential said in its letter  of 26 July 2018 to Mr As IFA:
Please send me your invoice for time taken in this regard and I will make every effort to see 
this is settled promptly (). 
Its not clear whether  Mr As IFA has as yet provided  Prudential  with an invoice. However  I 
think Prudentials offer to cover Mr As IFA costs associated with its error is fair. I dont think  
Mr A should  suffer  any financial disadvantage  in this respect. 
Following the referral of Mr As complaint to our service, Prudential  has made an additional 
offer in respect of what has happened. As a gesture of goodwill it has said it would  be 
prepared to reduce  the amount Mr A needed  to repay by £759.64.  This would reduce the 
amount Mr A owed  Prudential from £8,259.64  to £7,500. Given the level of disappointment  
and frustration Prudentials error  has caused I think Prudentials concession  here 
appropriately reflects the seriousness  of what has happened.
Our investigator suggested that in addition  to what Prudential has already  done/proposed  to 
do, it should also pay Mr A £200 compensation. Its really unfortunate what  has happened  
here but Im unable  to agree with our investigators recommendation. I think Prudentials 
apologies, repayment offer and significant reduction in the amount Mr A owes are sufficient 
and proportionate given its mistake. I think its important to say at this point that my role here 
isnt to fine or punish Prudential for the error that has clearly  occurred, but rather to look at 
how it has sought to address  the issue and determine whether its approach is fair and 
reasonable. 
I should also say that Prudentials  offer to reduce  the amount Mr A needs to return to it by 
£759.64 exceeds the level of compensation I wouldve considered  awarding  to Mr A if 
Prudential had made no offer at all. I consider Prudentials concession  to be significant and a 
fair resolution.
While Im not intending to direct Prudential to make the award Mr A would  perhaps  like, I do 
think its entirely reasonable for Mr A to expect Prudential to provide clear,  consistent and 
correct information.  And its unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen. I am genuinely 
sorry to hear of the impact that this has had on Mr A. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr As sincerity  or strength  of feeling in bringing  his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision will likely come  as a disappointment to him, 
but for the reasons Ive explained I dont intend to ask Prudential to do anything further. 
I invited Mr A and Prudential to comment on my provisional decision.
Prudential responded and said it had no further comments to make.  Mr A responded and in 
summary said:
he recognised  the serious  approach and diligence our service  had given his 
complaint and was thankful for that
Ref: DRN01385965he disagreed  with my provisional decision and didnt think it took into account the 
distress Prudentials errors had caused his wife whod come close  to a breakdown as 
a result of what happened 
the whole experience  had been  extremely traumatic  and would continue  to have an 
impact going forward
his former accountant had expressed  an opinion on the matter saying Prudential 
should claim the overpayment on its insurance given its size as a company and the 
amount of money it already  had at its disposal
although he disagreed with my provisional  decision  he would ultimately accept  it but 
that any payment  due would have to paid in small amounts  over subsequent months 
and years
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my decision remains  
broadly the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im partially upholding 
Mr As complaint for the reasons Ive given.  However Ill respond to some  of the points Mr A 
has made following  my provisional  decision.  While  I wont be responding to every single 
point made,  I have carefully considered  all that has been said.
Its understandable  why,  given what Mr A has shared about the impact of Prudentials 
mistake, that he feels my decision doesnt  go far enough in recognising the seriousness of 
what happened or appropriately compensating him for this. 
I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling. But as I said in my provisional decision I have 
genuine sympathy for Mr A and certainly dont underestimate how difficult this experience 
has been. Nor do I take it lightly  that going  forward it wont  be pleasant  experience  for Mr A 
having to repay the money he owes to Prudential. Its because of this I concluded  that 
Prudentials apologies,  offer of a suitable repayment plan and significant concession  to the 
overall amount  Mr A owes Prudential were fair and reasonable responses given the 
seriousness of what happened  and its impact  on Mr A.
Im very sorry to hear of the distress Mr A says has been caused  to his wife by what  
happened. I dont doubt this has been an incredibly  difficult  time for both Mr A and his wife. 
However I can only tell Prudential to pay compensation for trouble and upset  experienced by 
their customer- and in this case thats  Mr A, not his wife. 
Im afraid that in the circumstances  I havent  been persuaded to direct Prudential  to do 
anything in addition  to what it has already offered to do. And as I explained in my provisional 
decision Im unable to fairly conclude  there  are sufficient grounds on which  Prudential  should 
be required  write off the overpayment it made to Mr A.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr As complaint, to the extent that 
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited applies the £759.64 reduction to the overall 
amount Mr A owes  for the overpayment  and that a reasonable  repayment plan is agreed 
between The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited and Mr A so Mr A can repay the 
amount he owes.
Ref: DRN01385966Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0138596