K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank  Plc blocked  his account and removed funds from it without
his consent.
Background
On 4 December 2017, Mr B received a credit  of £530 into his TSB bank account.
On 6 December, TSB received notification from another bank that their customer  had been
a victim of a scam: they had bought  goods  from a sellers website, transferred the money (to
Mr Bs account), but the goods never  arrived. For the purposes of this decision, I shall refer
to this person  as Customer  A.
As a result of this information, TSB blocked  Mr Bs account.
Mr B couldnt make  a payment, so called TSB to find out why. TSB told him they had
blocked his account and asked him about the £530. Mr B had asked if it mattered. TSB
confirmed it did, so Mr B initially said he had sold a bike online.  As the conversation
progressed, however, he said that was not correct  and in fact he had sold some
cryptocurrency. He agreed  to give the bank  the details of the sale.  Mr B said he originally
lied as he didnt think it was any of TSBs business  what the money  was for.
Mr B went  to his TSB local branch  with documents to show that he had sold cryptocurrency
and the £530 was  or so he had thought  related to that. The bank manager thought the
documents were  genuine. He was satisfied  that, in so far as Mr B was concerned, the
transaction was done in good  faith.  Mr B did not know there was anything  untoward about
the funds coming  into his bank account.
TSB believed that it was more likely than not that a fraudster had in some way defrauded
Customer A and got them  to pay their money in Mr Bs account, to pay for the
cryptocurrency. Therefore, the fraudster had used someone elses  money (Customer A) and 
was now in possession  of Mr Bs cryptocurrency. In effect, therefore, there were two victims
including Mr B, TSBs own customer.  Mr B, on the other hand,  thought  it may have been
Customer A who was making  a false claim.
Notwithstanding that TSB believed both Customer A and Mr B were victims here, TSB
decided to return the funds to the sending bank, who was Customer  As bank. TSB said this
was on the basis  that a) the sending  bank had provided TSB with an indemnity and b)
because they felt Mr B could not benefit from scammed  funds  and they should be restored
to Customer A.
The effect of TSBs  actions meant  that Mr B had lost both his cryptocurrency  which  he sold
unknowingly to a fraudster, and the £530  he had expected for it in payment.
He complained to the bank. TSB felt some of their customer service could have been better
 Mr B had been given  some conflicting information about the timescale for handling matters
and had spent  almost an hour on the phone. TSB gave £25 in acknowledgment  of that and
reimbursed the call cost of £5.
On the substantive matter though, they said they could  not give him £530 as they had done
the right thing by returning that sum to Customer A.
Ref: DRN02893672Mr B brought his complaint to this service. The adjudicator, looking into the issues,  thought
that Mr B should be refunded. This was on the basis that Mr B was expecting  money  relating
to a genuine transaction, he was not involved in any scam himself and there appeared to be
no legal  obligation  for TSB to return the funds.
TSB did not agree. They pointed out that Mr B had initially changed his reason for the
money. However, they also agreed that was not the reason they had returned the money.
They accepted they were  satisfied with Mr Bs explanation but maintained that he could not
keep the funds because they were fraudulent; and they were  legally  obliged  to return the
money once the sending  bank asked for it under  an indemnity.
They asked for an ombudsman to decide how to resolve the complaint and so it has been
passed to me.
My provisional findings  
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on
10 December 2020. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think the fair and
reasonable outcome is that TSB refund Mr B. I shall explain why.
First and foremost, I acknowledge the difficulties this complaint presents. There  was a
particular tension  for TSB here because both Customer A and Mr B were victims. There is a
natural impulse  to try to restore positions as far as possible. It is well documented that
banking fraud is very damaging not only to the financial  sector itself, but more particularly to
individuals. In this case, the fraudulent activity of a third party  left two victims.
The Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP Rules), contained within  the Financial Conduct
Authoritys handbook, set out the rules  which apply to resolution of complaints by the
ombudsman service. In considering what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of
the case, DISP  3.6.4  R requires me, as the ombudsman, to:
take into account:
1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
2) (where appropriate)  what [the ombudsman] considers to have been  good industry practice
at the relevant time.
Relevant Considerations
Bank mandate
The primary duty of a bank is to follow  their customers instructions and make payments as
instructed in line with the mandate. The banks payment obligations only arise  if the payment
instruction complies  with the mandate. A banks mandate is usually set out in the terms and
conditions of the account. Where a bank makes  a payment which is unauthorised by its
customer, it has no right to debit the customer's account.
Ref: DRN02893673The primary duty of a bank is to follow  their customers instructions and make payments as
instructed in line with the mandate. The banks payment obligations only arise  if the payment
instruction complies  with the mandate. A banks mandate is usually set out in the terms and
conditions of the account. Where a bank makes  a payment which is unauthorised by its
customer, it has no right to debit the customer's account.
Overlaying this are a number of regulatory  and other  legal obligations that the banks must
adhere to. There are a variety of circumstances in which a bank cannot, or should not, follow
a mandate for a period of time: for example, where there is doubt it is the true customer
giving the instruction.
Industry practice
The Authorised Push Payment (APP), Voluntary Best Practice Standards produced  by UK
Finance sets out standards  for sending  and receiving firms (i.e. banks)  to follow  when
processing a claim for an APP scam. Although not all firms were party to this, I consider the
guidance, which came  into force from October  2017,  to have been good industry practice at
the time.
There are several relevant principles here:
The sending firm should notify  their customer that because  they authorised 
the transaction, the right to the funds  is with the recipient.
The receiving firm will need to investigate and establish (to the extent it is 
able) whether  the account is fraudulent and if funds remain.
The receiving firm will need to find evidence that the recipient has obtained the 
funds fraudulently.
Following the receiving firm's investigation, identified  funds should  always  be 
repatriated back to the sending firm at the risk of the receiving firm, subject  to 
various exceptions.  One of these exceptions  is where there is a credible  complaint 
or dispute from the recipient of the funds.
The APP notification form should not be used to start an indemnity process.
Therefore, good  industry practice  dictates that the receiving firm should investigate whether
their customer has received the funds fraudulently. If they havent,  the receiving firm is under
no obligation  to return the funds to the sending firm.
The Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs)
The PSRs  say that the payer gives his or her consent to the execution  of a payment
transaction by employing the form and procedure agreed between  them  and the bank (this is
usually detailed in the terms and conditions).  The payer is the one who has to give consent,
this cant be done  by a third party.  If the payer doesnt give consent,  the transaction will be
considered as unauthorised.
Application to this Complaint
In compliance with their regulatory obligations,  it was prudent for TSB,  as the receiving  bank,
to block access to the account following  a claim from the sending bank. So, I dont think they
made an error in doing so. Mr B needed the opportunity to respond to the claim and provide
information to TSB.
Ref: DRN02893674Whilst initially TSB were sceptical about Mr Bs explanation, later they believed  that he had
sold his cryptocurrency, but considered  that was irrelevant to his ability to retain the funds. I
disagree.
When considering  TSBs  mandate and having reviewed the terms and conditions,  Ive noted
one term of relevance:
7.6 Payments into your  account  made in error
If we are told that a payment has been made  into your
account by mistake,  or has been recalled by the bank
that made it, we can take up to the amount of that
payment out of your account. We dont have to ask you
to agree before we do this but well tell you about it and
ask you to contact us if you dont think the payment was
made to you in error. You will need to contact us by the
date we give you.
We will consider all of the information  we are given
about the payment and will act reasonably.
This term talks about situations when TSB may debit a customers account without their
agreement. It is titled  Payment into your account made in error. Im therefore not satisfied
this would apply  to the facts of Mr Bs complaint. The payment into his account  was made as
the result  of a scam, not an error  or mistake. An example of a mistaken  payment may be
where the customer at the sending bank accidently  puts the wrong account number in when
making the payment. This is very different to the circumstances around Mr Bs payment.
Whilst unknowingly  part of a wider scam, the payment  was received by Mr B in return  for his
sale of cryptocurrency.
In any event, even  if the term about  mistake applied here, I consider that it is intended to
reflect the usual  position in law about recovery  of mistaken payments: Which is that a payer
is entitled to recover  a payment made  by mistake unless the payee receiving the payment
has changed their position in good  faith.  Here,  Mr B has sold his cryptocurrency in return for
the payment received and has therefore  changed  his position. TSBs investigation found that
Mr B was unaware of the wider fraud, therefore he has acted in good faith. Nothing in the
terms suggests that anything other than the usual position in law about  mistaken  payments
will apply.
The term does also talk about situations where  a payment has been recalled by the bank
that made it. In this case, the sending bank notified TSB that their customer  had been the
victim of a scam and sent an indemnity requesting the funds be returned. So, does this
mean the term applies here and TSB were able to debit Mr Bs account in these particular
circumstances? I dont  believe so.
Im still persuaded  the term only covers payments made in error, not as the result of a fraud
or scam. And in any event, even  if I was to conclude the term applies, it goes on to talk
about the fact TSB will ask the customer about the payment and act reasonably based on
the information it receives.
There is no evidence to suggest that Mr B dishonestly procured the funds from Customer  A.
Nor is there any evidence  to suggest  that he knew, believed,  or suspected  that the funds had
been illegitimately  procured by someone else in order to pay for the cryptocurrency. Mr B
provided TSB with evidence of his cryptocurrency sale and they agreed that he had not
Ref: DRN02893675acted fraudulently. Therefore, I cant see any reason for TSB to return  the money to the
sending bank. This would not seem reasonable in these particular circumstances,  and
industry best practice suggests TSB should not have done  so once its investigation
established that its customer had not behaved  fraudulently.
And I have  seen no other legal or regulatory obligations in this case  which satisfy me TSB
shouldve contravened their mandate.
In addition to this, under the PSRs,  TSBs  removal of the funds from Mr Bs account would
be considered  unauthorised.  He didnt  give his consent for TSB to withdraw  the funds from
his account. And as already stated,  the terms and conditions dont allow  for this in these
circumstances.
Im therefore  satisfied the starting point is TSB should not have removed funds from Mr Bs
account and sent them back to the sending bank. And, based on the facts, I cannot see any
justification for them having  done  so. It follows that I believe TSB should  refund the £530  to
Mr B.
TSBs actions caused Mr B a great deal of worry and upset. He was without this money over
the Christmas period which left him struggling  and he felt let down that his own bank had
ignored the evidence he provided. So, along with refunding Mr B the £530,  I also believe an
additional payment (taking into account  the £25 already paid) is necessary for the trouble
and upset he faced  due to the removal of the funds.
Indemnity
TSB have  said they were  legally obliged to return the money  after receiving an indemnity
from the sending  bank. However,  I disagree with this. An indemnity is simply an agreement
between the two banks that provides some protection to the receiving bank being asked to
return the funds  by the sending bank. It doesnt compel  the receiving bank to return  the
funds if, following its own investigation, it establishes that its customer  has a legal right to the
money and was not involved in any fraud  or scam.
So, I dont agree that the indemnity TSB received  from the sending bank placed  any legal
obligations on them to return  the money.
So, subject to any further representations from Mr B or TSB I was minded to uphold  the 
complaint.
TSB accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr B accepted the bulk of the provisional decision but remained unhappy with the level of 
compensation I recommended. He explained  that the incident with TSB triggered a long 
period of anxiety  and depression which he is still having to deal with today. He sent me 
medical evidence  to show he began taking medication for his symptoms in November 2017.  
He also explained  that the whole incident  affected  his Christmas that year as it was a lot of 
money to be without. As a result, he believes TSB should pay him more  than £200 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN02893676My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear what Mr B has been through  the past few years. Any award I 
make isnt intended to belittle  this. I must  make  an award that is fair and reasonable for the 
impact TSBs actions had on Mr B  its not a punitive award. 
Having spoken  to Mr B I was able to clarify that his depression and anxiety wasnt  triggered 
by TSBs actions. His testimony and the evidence  he provided showed that he was already 
suffering with the effects of this in October/November  2017, so prior to what happened  with 
TSB in December 2017. So, it wouldnt  be fair or correct  for me to say TSBs actions were 
the original or sole trigger of his anxiety and depression. 
Of course,  I have no doubt  that the stress of the situation wouldve had an impact on how Mr 
B was feeling at the time.  But, based on what Mr B has told me, I think  its fair to conclude 
there were other things in his life at the time that were contributing to how he was feeling.  
So, whilst I think  TSB should compensate Mr B for its part in this, Im still of the opinion  the 
£200 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
I say this also because  whilst I appreciate being  without  the £530  over Christmas wouldve 
been frustrating  for Mr B, his account still maintained  a healthy balance of between £2,000 
and £5,000 over the Christmas period  and beyond.  So, its difficult  for me to say his 
Christmas wouldve been so significantly impacted by being  without that money that it would 
warrant an increase  in the compensation amount.  And in any event, the 8% simple interest 
Ive directed TSB to pay is intended  to compensate Mr B for being without his funds. 
So, in conclusion, Im not minded to change  the outcome from what  I said in my provisional 
decision and I still uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against TSB Bank plc. I direct it to
do the following:
Refund the £530;
Pay 8% simple interest per annum  on the amount from date of debit, to the date of
refund;
Pay an additional  £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0289367