K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that he lost the opportunity to buy Oxford Biomedica shares when  the prices  
were favourable because  HSBC UK Bank Plc failed  to make them available  to trade.  As a 
result, he bought them at a higher price and therefore suffered a loss.
background
Mr O said that HSBC  knew about the consolidation and relisting  6-8 weeks  in advance,  and 
should've been prepared  to make the shares  available sooner than it did; something  other  
businesses did. He didnt  accept HSBCs explanation that it had to get authorisation to relist  
the shares on its platform.
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel his complaint  should  be upheld.
She said that the new shares were  allocated to shareholders on 30 May. Mr O logged into 
his account and tried to purchase the new shares  on 30 May but was unsuccessful.  HSBC  
told him, over the phone, that they weren't yet available  to trade. He logged into his account  
on 4 June but couldnt make a purchase  but did succeed on 7 June. She said the HSBC 
made shares  available  on 4 June but only after Mr O had checked his account.
She said that HSBC  was entitled to make  its own commercial  decisions, and this wasnt 
something this service interferes with. Instead,  it was the job of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority,  to intervene  if it believes  customers aren't being treated  fairly  by a 
business' processes and procedures.
She didnt  believe  HSBC had treated Mr O unfairly  or caused  him to lose money. He wasn't 
singled out and given a higher buying  price  than its other investors. It had its internal process 
which it needs to complete  before  relisting the shares.  There's no stipulation for a business 
to relist delisted shares and nothing in the terms and conditions referred to the time it would 
take to deal with corporate actions. It only mentions that it would use all reasonable 
endeavours.
Mr O reiterated and expanded on his original  complaint points, and added:
Hed previously sold shares in this company with the intention of buying back  the new 
shares as soon as they were available
He could not do this via other  businesses (who  made them  available sooner) as this 
needed to happen  inside  his HSBC ISA
HSBC contradicted itself saying it made  the shares available on 4 June and then 5 
June; it also claimed 7 June was the next available date after the weekend but there 
wasnt a weekend  between these dates
This illustrates  HSBCs systematic failure  to undertake the re-listing  promptly 
and appropriately
Importantly, it did not warn customers of this likely delay
Ref: DRN03449942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons. I am satisfied that she 
responded in detail  to all of Mr Os key points and I share her view about the merits of these. 
Given this, I am not sure what more I can add to her extensive responses.
Crucially, HSBC was under no obligation  to relist these shares within  a particular  time period 
and, from what Ive read, it never promised to do this. I therefore  dont  accept it failed Mr O 
or other customers by choosing to do so when it did. Even if I felt it had a responsibility to act 
reasonably promptly,  I am satisfied  it met such a standard.
I acknowledge that it appeared  slightly confused  as to whether the relisting occurred on 4 or 5 
June (along with the weekend issue). But either way I dont accept this demonstrates  that it failed 
to act fairly  or professionally in relisting when  it did. Nor is it sufficient to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0344994