K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr C aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding 
it to his card. I cant know for certain what was said at the time Mr C applied  for his card and 
PPI, but Barclays has provided  a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Cs credit card 
application form had a separate section for PPI with options to either accept of decline the 
policy. The option  to take the policy has been  selected and the form has been signed by 
Mr C. With this in mind  I think Mr C would  have known  he didnt have to take the policy  and 
chose to take it out. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Barclays have also let us know that they incorrectly advised Mr C that his policy was taken 
out by post, but has since noticed the policy was taken out in branch.  It would  like to offer 
Mr C £25 in recognition of this error.  If Mr C would like to accept this he should contact 
Barclays directly.
Ref: DRN06642092my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0664209