K821x#15complaint
Mr C and his representative  complain about the way Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited has dealt with a claim on his motor insurance policy and that it cancelled  his policy.
background
Mr C took out his limited  annual mileage motor insurance policy  with Markerstudy  on 14 
September 2017. Shortly afterwards on 25 September 2017 he reported  that his car had 
been damaged  while  parked in a car park. As the accident wasnt apparently  Mr Cs fault his 
claim was handled  by a third party  credit  hire company.  It wasnt  transferred back  to 
Markerstudy until around 23 October  2017.
A term of the policy said Mr C had to supply information on his cars mileage if he made a 
claim. Markerstudy asked  for this information.  On 14 October 2017 Mr C said that he 
couldnt get the actual  mileage of his car as it was in for repair.  And he gave an estimate of 
it. Even  so Markerstudy cancelled his policy on 24 October 2017. Mr C is unhappy  with this 
and the way the claim has been  investigated.
Markerstudy said in its final response  that the policy had been cancelled  correctly for non 
compliance as Mr C hadnt cooperated with its request for information about  his cars 
mileage. But it had later offered to reinstate it as a gesture of goodwill.  But Mr C didnt 
accept the offer.
Our adjudicator felt that this complaint  should  be upheld.  In summary she said:
On 16 October 2017 Markerstudy called the credit  hire company handling Mr Cs 
claim and was told there was an engineers report on his car. At that time 
Markerstudy wanted to know  Mr Cs cars mileage and was chasing him for it. He 
said he couldnt get it as the car was in for repair. On 17 October  2017  Markerstudy  
said it was going to cancel the policy on 24 October 2017 because Mr C hadnt 
supplied the mileage information  it needed. And the cancellation went  ahead on 24 
October 2017. But Markerstudy couldve got this mileage information from the 
engineers report  if itd asked the credit hire company for it. It wasnt  therefore fair for 
the policy to be cancelled when the mileage information was readily  available.
Mr Cs limited mileage  policy terms and conditions  say if he exceeded  the agreed 
mileage he may have to pay an additional  excess in the event of a claim. But theres  
nothing to say the policy would be cancelled  if the mileage information wasnt given.
Markerstudys offer to reinstate the policy was made on 14 December 2017. Mr C 
declined this offer as by then hed obtained  cover elsewhere. That was reasonable.
Mr Cs unhappy with the way his claim has been dealt with. But she cant comment 
on how the credit hire company handled  Mr Cs claim. She can only look at 
Markerstudys actions from 23 October 2018 after it took on the claim.
Markerstudy hasnt followed up on a witness statement for some seven months and 
the address a second questionnaire  was sent to is slightly incorrect. This information  
is central to the claim and it shouldve been  pursued more strenuously.  It could also 
have tried calling the witness  on a phone  number it had. Theres also nothing  to 
suggest the availability of CCTV was followed up. The forensic engineer  had also 
Ref: DRN04343072asked for more information  which Markerstudy didnt follow  up. Overall Markerstudy 
hasnt investigated  this claim appropriately.
It wasnt fair for the policy to be cancelled and Markerstudy should refund Mr Cs 
premium on a pro-rata basis from the date of cancellation plus pay interest. All 
references to the cancellation should  be removed from Mr Cs record  and 
Markerstudy should provide him with a letter to say his policy  was cancelled in error  
which he can present  to his new insurer. Markerstudy should also attempt to get 
more information  from the witness and provide clearer  images to the engineer and 
get his view. If it cannot do so this now because the car has been  repaired the claim 
should be settled  as a non fault accident,  Mr Cs no claims  discount  should be 
reinstated and it should refund his policy excess.  Markerstudy  should also pay £150  
compensation to Mr C for the trouble and upset  caused.
Markerstudy doesnt agree. In summary  it says the credit hire company initially dealt with the 
claim and it attempted  to get the extra evidence. Mr Cs car sustained considerable damage  
and was un-driveable but the third partys  car shows no damage. Theres  a strong  case to 
support that it wasnt involved. Mr C didnt claim on his policy  until 23 October  2017. 
Markerstudys investigation didnt start until then by which time any CCTV wouldve been 
erased. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cancellation of Mr Cs policy
Mr C took out a limited  annual mileage policy. The policy terms and conditions made clear 
that if Mr C made a claim Markerstudy would seek evidence at the time of the claim to prove  
that his estimated mileage hadnt  been  exceeded.  And if he didnt  supply the evidence he 
would be required to pay more as outlined in his policy endorsement. But it didnt say if the 
evidence wasnt forthcoming the policy would be cancelled.
Mr C was asked for his mileage information  and explained he couldnt give it as his car was 
in for repair.  He gave  an estimated figure. Even  though that later proved to be rather  
inaccurate I think he made a reasonable attempt  to provide the information  requested.
In addition I think Markerstudy couldve reasonably obtained the cars mileage from the 
credit hire company when  it spoke to them about  the engineers report  theyd  commissioned. 
That wouldve  noted the cars  mileage.
As both of these events  happened before the policy was cancelled  I cant  conclude  on 
balance that it was fair or reasonable for Markerstudy to cancel Mr Cs policy  on the basis of 
his non compliance or that it didnt have  the cars mileage.
Markerstudy says it offered to reinstate the policy but Mr C declined  this offer. I think that 
was a reasonable response as by then some months had gone  by and hed already obtained 
alternate insurance cover elsewhere.
As such I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt fair for the policy  to be cancelled.  And 
Markerstudy should therefore now refund Mr Cs premium from the date of cancellation on a 
Ref: DRN04343073pro-rata basis plus pay interest. I also think its fair for all references  to the cancellation to be 
removed from Mr Cs record and Markerstudy  should provide him with a letter  to say his 
policy was cancelled in error which he can present to his new or future insurer.
Markerstudys handling of the claim
As the adjudicator says we can only consider what happened after Markerstudy  received  the 
claim on about 23 October 2017 not before that when  it was in the hands of the credit  hire 
company.
Its not for us to determine  who was to blame for the accident. But we can consider  how 
Markerstudy has handled the investigation  of the claim.
I accept that the credit  hire company had attempted to get the CCTV evidence  and had 
contacted the witness.  But when Markerstudy took on the claim it didnt proactively follow  up 
on the CCTV and failed to seek more information  from the witness,  after a first attempt  to do 
so, for about seven  months. It also didnt follow up on the engineers request for clearer 
images of the damage as wouldve all been reasonable.
The adjudicator felt Markerstudy should  now take steps  to seek more  information and 
evidence. But I think as the car has been  repaired and given the time that has now gone by 
its highly  likely that anything more or useful  will be found out. That may not have been  the 
case if Markerstudy had pursued  matters  more proactively earlier.
As such I think  on balance that the opportunity to find out exactly  what happened and to 
make a full recovery from any third party has most likely been lost for good. 
This wasnt Mr Cs fault and I think its therefore  fair for this incident  to be considered  as a 
non fault one. His record should  be amended and marked accordingly. And he should  be 
refunded his excess and his no claims  discount  should be restored.
I also agree  that Mr C has been  caused some distress and inconvenience by everything 
thats happened and the way Markerstudy has handled matters. I think this warrants a 
payment of some compensation.  Taking  everything  into account, including the level of 
awards we make, I agree  with the adjudicator that an award  of £100 is fair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Markerstudy Insurance  Company Limited should:
1.Refund Mr Cs premium  on a pro-rata basis from the date of cancellation plus pay 
simple interest* on it at the rate of 8% a year from the date of the cancellation 
until settlement;
2.Remove all references to the cancellation from Mr Cs record;
3.Provide Mr C with a letter to say his policy was cancelled in error which  he can 
present to his new or future insurer;
4.Settle Mr Cs claim as a non fault one, amend his record  accordingly, reinstate 
his no claims discount  and refund his policy excess; and 
Ref: DRN043430745.Pay Mr C £150 compensation.
Markerstudy must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Markerstudy  to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0434307