K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  application completed at the time. The form 
had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  had been selected  and 
printed before it was signed by Miss B. I think its likely the PPI was selected  as a result  of a 
conversation between Miss B and the Halifax representative. As Miss B was agreeing to 
additional credit, I would have expected  her to have read the form and raised  any questions 
she had at the time before signing in agreement with it. So I think Halifax  made  it clear  that 
Miss B didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she may not remember this now many  years later.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Miss B has said she would have received some sick pay from her employer  if she were to be 
off work unwell. But this policy would cover  10% of the outstanding balance of her account 
for up to 12 months if she was too sick to work  or she lost her job. And this would be in 
addition to any other pay she would receive.  Miss B has also said her mother  couldve 
helped her if she needed it. But that depended  on her mother being able to do so when she 
needed it which wasnt guaranteed. So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Miss B back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss B now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN09461682my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0946168