K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they were  mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  by 
Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS).
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with BoS in 2004. At the same time they bought a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The plan included PPI (accident,  sickness  and 
redundancy cover)  as well as life and critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs M have  only 
complained about the PPI element, so that is all that we have considered.
The PPI element would have covered their mortgage repayments  for up to 24 months at a 
time if either  of them couldnt work.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt know the PPI was optional. They say they didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs M 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago and the policy cancelled over 12 years  ago, so 
unsurprisingly neither party has retained any documents from the time.  Mr and Mrs M say 
the PPI wasnt presented  to them as optional. However,  they  are not completely clear  in 
their recollections as they also said If we accepted PPI it was because  it was recommended  
and not advised it was optional. If Mr and Mrs M werent sure if they accepted PPI, I dont 
think I can necessarily rely on their assumption that it would have been because they were 
told it was compulsory. 
While there  are no documents available from the sale itself, this service has seen mortgage  
and TMPP applications  from around this time from BoS. They make it clear to the customer 
that the PPI is optional.  I dont think the PPI could have been  taken out without these 
documents being completed, especially as it required  a separate  direct  debit mandate  to be 
set up to take the premiums at the same time. 
So, on the limited  information I have available  to me I cant safely say that Mr and Mrs M 
were led to believe the PPI was compulsory. I think its more  likely  they bought the PPI 
knowing they had a choice about it, although I understand why they may not remember this 
so many years later. 
BoS would  have given Mr and Mrs M a personal recommendation about the PPI. So it had a 
responsibility to take reasonable  steps to make sure it was suitable  for them.  Looking  at 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time I think the policy was suitable  for both of them. I 
say this because:
Ref: DRN04344482Mr and Mrs M were  both eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of the 
terms which might have  made it more difficult for them to make  a successful claim, 
such as those related  to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr and Mrs M both had an entitlement to sick pay and redundancy pay from their 
employers. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to this and for considerably  
longer than their full sick pay or redundancy pay would have lasted;
Mr and Mrs M say they could have asked  friends  or family for help. But the policy 
would have meant they didnt need  to do this. And I dont  think  Mr and Mrs M could 
have relied on family help for an extended  period  of time if they werent working,  as 
well as meeting all their other  uninsured expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies available on the 
market around the same  time. It was flexible as it could be amended  or cancelled at 
any time without a financial penalty.
Its possible Mr and Mrs M didnt get all the information they should have done from BoS 
before they bought the policy.  But I dont think if theyd  had all the information  they needed 
that it would  have made a difference to their decision to buy the cover. I think it would have 
just shown that the policy was suitable for them in the way Ive already  described.
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs M lost out as a result of anything BoS might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint so it follows  that Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0434448