K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained about Trinity Lane Insurance  Company Ltds  handling of his claim on his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Hs car was involved in an accident  in December  2015 and the car was a total loss. Mr H 
claimed on his policy,  which  was a market  value  policy. That means that in the event of a 
total loss, Trinity Lane  would  have  to pay the cars pre-accident market  value.
Trinity Lane said the market value of Mr Hs car was £5,000. Mr H didnt  agree  and said it 
was worth somewhere in the region of £30,000, so he complained. Trinity Lane didnt uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. Mr H didnt think  that was fair so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He felt that Trinity Lanes decision was 
reasonable. As Mr H didnt agree  with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me 
to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 29 May 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending 
to uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  if Trinity Lane have treated Mr H in a fair 
and reasonable way.
Mr Hs car was manufactured in the early 1990s  as a standard branded  saloon.  A 
sports car company  (which Ill refer to as A) heavily  modified Mr Hs and two other 
identical car cars which became prototypes. A wanted to offer a customer  race car 
alongside a road car tie in. To increase their appeal, A wanted to badge the car using 
the name of a famous  sports car brand originating  from the early part of the twentieth 
century, who Ill refer to as B. A member of the B family  agreed  for A to badge  the 
three prototypes in Bs name. Trinity Lanes  expert  said that A who were responsible 
for the three  prototype [standard saloon] models  has no connection with the [B] 
family name other than [a member of the B family] being involved [with the three 
prototypes] due to the use of the [B] name He said the three prototypes do not 
carry the provenance attached with a vehicle recognised as an [B]. The reason for 
this was [B] was now defunct and the [B] family name only allowed for the use of the 
name for a limited amount  of time. In other words, my understanding is that Trinity 
Lane have said the three  prototype cars werent  made by B as that brand no longer 
existed. Instead  the three prototypes were standard cars that A heavily modified and 
badged B with the agreement of a family  member  of B. I think  Trinity Lanes 
explanation is to make the distinction between these  three cars modified by A and 
the cars B historically  made when Bs company was operational.
A used  the three prototypes to try and attract potential manufacturer backing.  Despite 
initial interest from one car manufacturer,  the project never materialised. Mr Hs 
expert report describes  his car as:
a one off hand crafted vehicle with a body constructed  of aluminium  and 
with various modifications  which make  the vehicle unique and therefore 
extremely collectable amongst vehicle collectors.  The vehicle was badged [B], 
which was a highly respected  vehicle manufacturer which produced  various 
Ref: DRN08674252sporting and towing  saloons and convertibles  between 1936 and up to 1955. 
Various [B] products  were highly successful at rallying and motoring 
competition events post WW2. The marque has an enthusiastic and 
dedicated following  amongst enthusiasts and a modern vehicle marketed 
with an [B] badge would,  in my opinion, have significant interest and therefore 
value, especially as [Mr Hs] vehicle is unique and appears to have been in 
good order prior to the accident.  The project  to produce the vehicle or a 
similar model was considered by [car manufacturers] in the 1990s and 
[Mr Hs] model  is thought to be one of three  such vehicles produced, although 
each vehicle was of a slightly different design and [Mr Hs] was a prototype.
Mr H said his car was:
the only [one] commissioned car by [B]. The other two vehicles exhibited   
as the "closest equivalent  vehicle" simply cannot  be the closest equivalent 
vehicle as those  cannot be comparable due to [Mr Hs] Vehicles unique, 
valuable, and rare attribute that make its guide retail price  reasonably  higher 
and at a premium. This [is] a one-off car and therefore market value cannot 
be verified by any other associated car. And the Vehicle was made from 
hand-built aluminium  from scratch
In response, Trinity Lanes expert  said: 
All three vehicles were prototypes of slightly  different  design  and different  
materials. All three vehicles were  prototypes, this is evident in that no further 
vehicles were produced.  Only the front and rear ends  of these vehicles had 
their shape  altered, the rest of the vehicle was still steel. Mr [Hs] car was only 
aluminium at the very front. The rear was fibreglass in the exact same 
manner as the other two. The last remaining vehicle has a carbon fibre front.
What is noteworthy,  Though  prototype designs, all three vehicles "were" in 
use, and used on the road. This is evident in the first one become written off 
in an Incident  in [abroad], Mr [Hs] being written  off in this RTA, the third one 
still being in use and all having substantial mileages.
Mr Hs policy  says that in the event of the total loss of his car, Trinity Lane  will pay 
the market value of it immediately  before the accident. Ordinarily we expect insurers  
to value cars using  industry accepted trade  guides  where appropriate. But, in this 
case, although built as a standard car Mr Hs, as with the other  two prototypes, was 
heavily modified and badged  B. To value the car Trinity Lane instructed an expert  to 
help. The expert used one of the industry  accepted  trade guides to first value the 
standard version of Mr Hs car. The value given  by the guide was £1,290. The expert  
then reviewed numerous similar (standard) cars advertised for sale.  On doing  so he 
found the advertised cars were  consistently offered for sale at higher prices  than the 
guide. The expert therefore adjusted  the valuation for Mr Hs car in its unmodified  
form in immaculate condition to £2,000. He then calculated the value of the 
modifications to Mr Hs car and added  £1,000  to reflect those. Given  the showroom 
condition of Mr Hs car a further  £2,000  was added.  That is how Trinity Lane  reached 
the pre-accident  market value of £5,000 for Mr Hs car. 
In reaching his valuation, Trinity Lanes  expert  took into consideration the fact that 
one of the other three prototypes had been sold in June 2014 for £2,102. The expert 
Ref: DRN08674253also looked at the price  of the standard version  of that other  prototype in one of the 
trade guides, which was valued at £1,140. So he concluded that the modifications  on 
the other prototype were  worth approximately £1,000. He also estimated  that the 
other prototype required approximately  £2,000 worth of paintwork to bring it to 
showroom standard.
Trinity Lanes expert very recently made contact with the owner  of the other 
prototype, which is the only remaining  one of the three. He enquired about how much 
the current owner was prepared  to sell it for. The owner said he: would accept £5k at 
a push. I personally value it at nearer £10k and had a lot of interest at this price. Id 
like to keep it really,  but I have other projects  and responsibilities. Thats why 
realistically I would accept £5k.
Mr Hs expert recently prepared a report in which he valued Mr Hs car between 
£14,750-£16,950. I asked for an explanation  as to how the expert came to that 
valuation. But the expert refused to detail  how he reached his valuation.  He said that 
information was commercially sensitive and he wasnt prepared to disclose it to our 
service, although he said he would do so if the matter  went to court. I gave the 
assurance that our service would treat such information in confidence but again the 
expert refused.  The expert said in his report that one of the other  prototypes was sold 
in 2017 for approximately  £10,000 to £12,000, but that its overall  condition  didnt 
appear to be as good as Mr Hs car. He also said its specification was a little 
different. But Trinity Lane have  said that the other  car didnt sell for £12,000 and it 
was re-advertised for £9,995, but again  failed to sell. I understand that is the same  
car Trinity Lanes expert recently enquired about  and was told by the owner  he was 
prepared to sell for £5,000. 
Valuing a car, especially  an unusual one like Mr Hs, is not an exact  science. We often 
find the opinion  of a person considered to be an expert in this field to be persuasive.  But 
the history of Mr Hs car shows just how difficult it can be for those considered to be 
experts to value a car like his. The following are valuations that have been given to 
Mr Hs car over the years:
£32,500 in 2005 by an engineer instructed by Mr H
£31,800 in 2008 by an engineer instructed by Mr H
£32,700 in 2010 by an engineer instructed by Mr H
£35,000 in 2013 by an engineer instructed by Mr H
£1,400 in 2013 by an engineer instructed by Trinity Lane when the car suffered 
damage in an accident  in 2013
£37,500 in 2014 by an engineer instructed by Mr H
£5,000 in 2016 by an engineer instructed by Trinity Lane
£14,750-£16,950 in 2018  by an engineer instructed by Mr H.
Between 2005 and 2010 the car was insured  on an agreed value  basis  and the 
value agreed was £30,000.  When taking  out an agreed value policy,  the insurer and 
policyholder will agree what the settlement  will be if a car is a total loss. Agreed value 
policies are generally offered for cars which fall into one of the following categories:  
classic, rare, very high value, or heavily modified. During the time Mr Hs car was 
insured on an agreed value policy  the insurer wasnt Trinity Lane, but another  
underwriter. 
Ref: DRN08674254Since 2010 Mr H has been  insured by Trinity Lane and his policy has been  a market 
value policy. That means Trinity  Lane would have  to settle a total loss claim on the 
basis of the cars market  value immediately before the accident happened.  Mr H said 
that Trinity Lane changed the policy to a market  value policy without  giving him any 
notice. Trinity Lane have disputed this and have said that when they became  Mr Hs 
insurer in 2010,  they wrote  to him and told him the policy was on a market value 
basis. In any event,  the information  I have seen shows that when Mr Hs car was 
damaged during an accident in 2013, he was told he didnt have an agreed  value  
policy. So I think Mr H knew,  certainly  from 2013  onwards, that he didnt have an 
agreed value policy.  And if he wasnt happy  with that he could have sought cover  
with another insurer.
When Mr Hs car was damaged in 2013 Trinity Lanes engineer valued Mr Hs cars 
pre-accident market value  at £1,400. That was a valuation done  using the trade 
guides on the basis of the car being  a standard model. The notes relating to that 
claim show that Mr H challenged the valuation and said that as he had a previous 
agreed value policy  where  the car was valued at £30,000, Trinity Lanes market  
valuation should reflect that previous value.  In response,  Trinity Lane  revalued the 
car as a one off taking  into consideration the previous agreed value. As a result,  
Trinity Lane paid over £11,000  to repair the car having initially  valued it at £1,400.  
Mr H believes  that was an admission  by Trinity Lane that the car was worth well over 
£11,000, otherwise  they wouldnt have covered the repair costs and would have 
declared it a total loss given it was uneconomical to repair had the correct  market 
value been £1,400. But Trinity  Lane  have said that they only repaired the car as a 
gesture of goodwill. After  that incident Mr H continued with his market value policy 
and didnt take out an agreed value policy.
As mentioned above, with unusual cars like Mr Hs, where there is very little 
information (such as a number of recent  sales of identical cars to compare)  it is very 
difficult to decide  what its market value is. With a car like Mr Hs the market value 
would be what a prospective buyer is willing  to pay. Trinity Lane have provided 
evidence to show one of the other prototypes sold in 2014  for just over £2,000. And 
recently, the owner  of the last remaining car said he was willing to sell it for £5,000, 
which is the valuation  Trinity  Lanes expert gave to Mr Hs car in 2015. 
But Mr H said that his car was unique and not comparable to the other two. He also 
said that in 2015 he had interest from a potential buyer  and the sale price discussed 
was £75,000,  subject to the car being  examined by an expert.  I understand that 
never progressed  given Mr Hs car had the accident  in December 2015. And while  
Ive been shown evidence that there  was discussion  of interest from a potential  buyer  
for that amount, I cant say whether or not the car would have sold for that amount. If 
this type of car was a collectors item and valuable, after the total loss of Mr Hs car I 
would have expected the last remaining prototype to have attracted more  interest.  
But despite  being prepared to accept  £5,000  for it, its owner  hasnt been able to sell 
it. And from the evidence  Ive seen, I think all three  prototypes were very similar, 
even though they had some variations. And Ive not seen any convincing evidence  to 
say Mr Hs car was anymore unique or valuable when compared  to the other  two 
prototypes to merit a valuation that is substantially  higher.
For the reasons  given  above, on the available evidence, I intend to find that Trinity 
Lanes valuation  of £5,000 was reasonable. Their experts valuation  was reasoned. 
And his valuation is supported by the fact that one of the prototypes was sold for just 
Ref: DRN08674255over £2,000 18 months before  the total loss of Mr Hs car, and because  the owner of 
the last remaining prototype  has recently said he was prepared  to sell it for £5,000.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Trinity Lane didnt comment  on my 
provisional findings. Mr H made the following comments:
His car wasnt a prototype but was commissioned.  It was designed and overseen by 
a prominent figure in the sports car and racing world, whose involvement makes  the 
car a unique collectors item and distinguishes  it from the other two cars.
The 2010, 2013, 2014 and 2016  valuations of Mr Hs car show the car was unique 
and incomparable  to the other two cars.
The fact that Trinity Lane paid over £11,000 to repair Mr Hs car in 2013 when it was 
damaged shows  that its incomparable  to the other two cars. He suggests  that Trinity 
Lane wouldnt have  paid that much  if the car wasnt valuable.
The fact that a potential buyer was considering paying as much as £75,000 for 
Mr Hs car shows  that its incomparable to the other  two.
The fact that after the total loss off the car, Trinity  Lane  told the third party insurer  
that £40,000 must be reserved for the cost of repair.
That the evidence  that Trinity Lanes  expert  spoke with the owner of the remaining 
car about its possible sale is hearsay and should not be relied upon.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. I would like to respond to Mr Hs comments as follows:
Mr H has said that his car wasnt a prototype but was commissioned. But in the 
experts report Mr H obtained and gave us, dated 26 November  2018,  it said that his 
car was a prototype.  I have not been provided  with any convincing,  certainly  no 
documentary, evidence to show the car was designed and overseen by the 
prominent individual Mr H mentions.  Nor have I been provided with any convincing 
evidence to show the car would have been  worth  more because of his involvement.
Mr H seeks  to rely on the valuations in 2010 (£32,700), 2013 (£35,000) and 2014 
(37,500). But I have  already detailed  the various  valuations given to Mr Hs car. While 
the valuations  given in the years pointed out by Mr H are all over £30,000, the expert 
he asked to value  the car in 2018 gave a dramatically lower  valuation which was 
around half £30,000. Those valuations cannot be considered in isolation of all the 
other evidence.
I can understand why Mr H says the fact that Trinity  Lane paid over £11,000 to repair 
his car in 2013 is an indicator that they believed  his car was worth more than that. 
Especially when  at that time the policy was a market value policy.  But as Ive 
explained above, at the time there was a dispute between Mr H and Trinity Lane 
whether or not the policy  was an agreed  value policy. And Trinity Lane  said they 
agreed to have the car repaired as a one off as a gesture of good will. In fact, as part 
of that claim, an engineer had said the pre-accident market value of the car was 
£1,400.
While  I have seen evidence that there  was interest by someone of buying Mr Hs car 
and that a figure of £75,000 was mentioned  subject to the car being examined by an 
expert, I cannot conclude  that the car would have sold for that figure or that it was an 
indicator of its pre-accident market  value. Especially as it was overwhelmingly  out of 
line with all the other valuations both before and after it.
Ref: DRN08674256I have seen the engineers report of the assessment following the total loss of Mr Hs 
car. The engineer  recommended a reserve of £40,000 (including VAT) being the 
estimated cost of repairing the car. The engineer made it clear that it was not a 
market valuation. So I dont believe  the reserve indicates what  the market value of 
the car was immediately before  the accident.  It was an indication  of how much  was 
needed to repair  the car.
Mr H said the evidence that Trinity Lanes  expert discussed the purchase price  of the 
only remaining car with its owner is hearsay and shouldnt be relied  upon.  I should 
say that our service  isnt bound by the rules of evidence a court would have  to 
adhere to. Were an informal alternative dispute  resolution service. As such we are 
an alternative to the courts not a substitute  for them.  And we dont  have the power to 
cross examine  witnesses or take evidence on oath. And its for me to judge  what 
evidence I wish to consider when deciding if Trinity Lane has dealt with Mr H fairly 
and reasonably. And the evidence Ive been shown was a text message exchange 
between the expert and the owner. Im satisfied that is legitimate evidence. So I dont 
accept that I shouldnt take it into consideration as part of the overall assessment of 
all the evidence. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.   
 
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0867425