K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc caused delays when dealing with a claim on his 
legal expenses insurance policy, as a result  of which he missed the deadlines  for pursuing 
his legal action.
background
In June 2013, Mr B suffered a broken  toe while on holiday  in Mexico. He was treated at a 
local hospital where they put two pins into his big toe. On returning  to the UK, he was told by 
medical professionals that the treatment  hed received was negligent. So in August 2013 he 
made a claim under  the legal  expenses  section of his travel insurance to seek  compensation 
from the tour operator and the Mexican hospital. 
AXA referred the matter  to one of its panel firms  of solicitors  to consider. Based on legal  
advice from those solicitors, AXA decided in January 2014 not to cover the claim. The 
solicitors sent a letter to Mr B setting out the reasons why cover wasnt available. They 
explained that Mr B could  bring the claim himself and if he chose to do so, he must be 
mindful of the Mexican courts deadline,  which they believed to be one year from the date of 
the incident. Mr B decided  to pursue the claim himself and instructed a firm of solicitors. 
They got a medical report which said the treatment was grossly negligent. 
Mr B pursued his case through his own solicitors.  Their view was that neither the tour 
operator nor the hotel  was at fault regarding the accident. But they thought the negligence 
claim against the hospital had a reasonable chance of success. They  had contacted a 
Mexican lawyer with a view to instructing him to pursue the claim in the Mexican courts.  
They thought the deadline was three  years  from the incident  22 June 2016.
In April 2016 Mr B contacted AXA to try and claim on his policy  again. He wanted cover for 
the legal  fees of his solicitor and the Mexican lawyer. He provided AXA with copies of his 
solicitors advice, the medical  report and supporting documents. He also made them  aware 
of the court  deadline and the need  to act quickly so that it wasnt  missed.  
AXA declined the claim. They explained  the case had been  considered  by the panel  
solicitors in 2013 and the legal advice was that it wasnt proportionate to pursue. Mr B 
disputed the decision. 
In May 2016  AXA agreed to review the claim and passed it to panel  solicitors. Between May 
and September  2016 there  was ongoing  correspondence between AXA and Mr Bs solicitors  
about various issues, including the need for advice from the Mexican  lawyer,  and the costs  
of getting that.
. 
An agreement was reached that AXA would  pay £1,500 towards the Mexican lawyers fees 
and Mr B would  pay the balance  of £500 himself.  AXA paid the £1,500 and the Mexican  
lawyer provided his written advice.  He said legal action was time barred but it was possible 
to use an arbitration  procedure and the chances of success were over 50%. He also said 
there wasnt enough evidence to value  Mr Bs claim. AXA said the claim wasnt likely to be 
proportionate, but referred  it to panel solicitors
In September  2016 the panel solicitors advised  that arbitration would be covered but Mr B 
would need to get over the deadline hurdle and prove his claim was within  the severe 
category. They  said the claim was just about proportionate.  
Ref: DRN06615402Mr B complained about the way AXA was dealing with his claim. He said AXAs delays  had 
caused him to miss the deadlines; the Mexican  lawyer was refusing to do any further work 
until he received  an additional payment, which AXA was refusing to pay; and hed provided 
all the information  requested but AXA refused to help him.
There was further  correspondence regarding the legal costs and AXA then sent terms of 
appointment to the Mexican lawyer.  The signed terms were returned  in February 2017 and 
he was authorised to act from 2 March. The Mexican lawyer  submitted an arbitration claim 
and in January  2018 advised that the arbitration  service had agreed to hear the case, but it 
was subsequently closed due to a lack of response from the defendants
When Mr B brought this complaint  to our service,  our investigator said she hadnt identified  
unnecessary delays by AXA which caused Mr B to miss the deadlines. Mr B didnt  agree, so 
the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.  I issued a provisional decision in 
October 2018. In the provisional  decision I said:
AXA originally rejected the claim in 2014. Mr B has complained about that decision and we 
have considered that separately.  In this decision,  Im only considering what  happened after 
he tried to claim again in 2016.
The policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which means  it must be more 
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case, and the costs  must be in proportion to 
the value of the claim. Terms  like this are common in legal expenses  policies and I think  they 
are reasonable. They mean insurers dont have to meet costs for claims that are unlikely to 
be successful or where the costs are too high compared to the value of the claim. And it was 
reasonable for AXA to look into these issues. But Ive looked  at how long it took to do that. 
Ive summarised what happened as follows:
In April 2016 AXA again declined the claim, saying it had already been considered by 
panel solicitors. But that had been in 2013.  AXA didnt, at this stage, seek  further 
legal advice on the claim.  
In May 2016 AXA said it would review  the matter  further. It sent the further evidence  
to panel solicitors to reassess the claim and they provided  a further opinion. This 
didnt refer to Mr Bs solicitors advice  or his medical report. Their advice was that 
AXA should  ask for a copy of the Mexican lawyers  legal opinion.  So AXA requested  
that from Mr Bs solicitors in June  despite it being clear from Mr Bs submissions 
that his solicitor hadnt yet instructed a Mexican lawyer;  they were  seeking funding for 
this.
AXA requested  a copy of the medical evidence  which  Mr B had already provided 
along with his solicitors views on the value  of the claim; their estimate of costs  and 
disbursements to pursue the claim;  and the Mexican lawyers fees to provide a 
written opinion.
 AXA passed the further  information  back to the panel solicitors.  They  raised 
concerns about the Mexican lawyers  ability to pursue the claim. They thought  his 
fees were high, and that proportionality  may still be an issue. AXA said it still wasnt 
satisfied the claim was proportionate. 
There was further correspondence between AXA and Mr Bs solicitors, who provided  
further comments from the Mexican  lawyer. AXA then made the offer to pay £1,500 
to settle his claim or pay that amount towards  the legal  opinion  from the Mexican 
lawyer. 
The Mexicans lawyers advice was received in July 2016. He said legal action was 
time-barred as the court deadlines  had been  missed; the case could be put through  a 
Ref: DRN06615403voluntary arbitration  procedure;  there was no formal  deadline,  but the rule tends to be 
three years from the date of the negligence (22 June 2016) and it could be extended 
to five years  if the case was severe;  the chance  of success was over 50%; there  
wasnt enough information available regarding Mr Bs pain and suffering, loss of 
earnings and other losses,  so it wasnt possible  to put a value on the claim. 
AXA decided to seek further guidance  from the panel solicitors.  Mr B chased  AXA for 
this guidance  several times in August and September 2016. It was received  by AXA 
and communicated  to Mr B on 20 September  around seven  weeks  later.
The panel solicitors  advice was that the arbitration procedure  could be covered 
under the policy,  but Mr B would need to get over the deadline hurdle and prove his 
claim was in the severe category. The solicitor  said the hospital is likely  to have 
funds to satisfy a clinical negligence claim, particularly  because [the solicitor] cannot 
see this being  at a level which would threaten the financial viability  of the hospital. 
And the claim was just about proportional to run.  
Despite this advice,  AXA said it would need  to be satisfied the hospital had means to 
meet any claim before confirming cover and would want an estimate of the value of 
the claim. The Mexican lawyer replied the same day to say he would need further 
funds to fully investigate the hospitals assets,  but it was a well-established  and 
proper private company. There was then further correspondence about  the value of 
the claim.
In October 2016 AXA asked  Mr Bs solicitors to clarify  whether  their estimates were 
based on English  or Mexican law  despite  it being clear in the advice that it was 
using English guidelines. The solicitors  replied the same day confirming this. AXA 
then said it wouldnt pay any further legal fees without knowing the value  of the claim  
under Mexican law. 
Mr B responded by making a complaint.  AXA acknowledged this and made an offer 
to Mr B that he could  use the panel solicitor,  who would  investigate the value of the 
claim. I cant  see that Mr B responded to this offer, but on 31 October  2016  AXA 
emailed the panel  solicitor asking them to get a Mexican agents advice on the value 
of the claim. 
Mr B forwarded an email from the Mexican  lawyer to AXA which  said he had 
calculated the possible compensation, but no figures were included.  AXA passed  this 
to the panel firm. It doesnt seem that either Mr B or AXA actually  asked the Mexican 
lawyer what his calculations were. After three weeks, AXA contacted Mr Bs solicitor 
asking them to get the information  from the Mexican lawyer, which was provided on 
20 November 2016. This said Mr Bs loss of earnings was £8,000,  based on what 
hed said; and damages for pain and suffering would be £6,400. 
In November 2016, AXA emailed Mr Bs solicitors asking what costs  they would  need  
to take the claim  forward. But this information  had already been  provided in the 
Mexican lawyers report in July.
The Mexican lawyer said he would need the outstanding balance of £500   which 
AXA then paid  and he would prepare  a schedule of costs  going forward.  AXA sent 
terms of appointment  to him. 
On 22 December 2016, AXA issued a final response to Mr Bs complaint. This 
summarised the complaint as being about  the decision to decline funding  for the 
Mexican lawyer to enable them to proceed and issue proceedings. The response 
only addressed  the issue  of proportionality;  it didnt  answer Mr Bs concerns that 
delays caused  him to miss the deadlines for legal action. 
AXA liaised with the Mexican  lawyer  regarding the terms of appointment. He returned  
these on 28 February  2017 and was authorised to act from 2 March. He started  the 
arbitration process but in the end this wasnt pursued, as there was no response from 
the other parties. 
Ref: DRN06615404Having considered this sequence  of events carefully, I dont  think AXA caused Mr B to miss 
his deadlines.  There were some failings in their case handling  for example, requests for 
information they already had; unnecessary delays; and seeking  legal guidance  from panel  
solicitors, then doing what they wanted to do in the first place instead of following that 
advice. 
By the time the claim came back to AXA, limitation  for court action had already passed. So 
AXA wasnt  responsible for that deadline  being  missed. The only option was the arbitration  
procedure which only had two months  left. If AXA had dealt with the claim promptly, cover 
might have been in place  by 22 June 2016 (when  limitation ran out on the arbitration 
procedure). The refusal to reconsider in April was based on the original legal advice, which 
was out of date.  AXA then sought advice from panel solicitors  and queried  the Mexican 
lawyers ability to deal with case.  This was all drawn  out and by the time AXA agreed to pay 
for the Mexican  lawyer, the arbitration claim was time barred. 
I think AXA might  have  been able to review  the case before 22 June 2016. And even if it 
didnt, as soon  as AXA had the Mexican  lawyers advice  in July, it should  have been thinking 
about providing cover to pursue the arbitration  claim,  given that the deadline had passed. 
Instead, it spent eight months  going backwards and forwards  with solicitors, agents and Mr B 
just to finally put cover in place and then find out the case  couldnt be pursued anyway. 
I think there was some  delay, which may have caused (or at least  contributed  to) missing  the 
deadline for the arbitration process.  On the other hand, Mr B had solicitors  and could have  
taken action to protect  his position.  And ultimately, I dont think  it made a difference to the 
outcome. That process didnt continue because there was no response from the other  
parties. It was always a voluntary process.  Theres nothing  to suggest the defendants would 
have co-operated  if it had been started  in time. So the end result  would  most  likely have 
been the same even  if the arbitration process had started earlier.
The most I would  consider in these circumstances would be some  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr B. Im sure the delays were frustrating for him. And he was 
put to some  trouble having to provide further information. But Ive taken into account that 
AXA did pay for costs on the case  and paid the £500 that Mr B had agreed  he would pay 
for the Mexican  lawyer. Looking at all the circumstances, I dont think a further payment 
would be fair.
For these reasons, I did not intend  to uphold  the complaint. 
developments
AXA has no further  comments to add. Mr B doesnt accept the provisional decision. In brief,  
he says:
There was a three year limitation period which expired in June 2016. He needed  
legal cover before that date. Because of delays by AXA he was left in a position 
where he could  only use the arbitration process.
As the arbitration  process was voluntary the chance of successfully obtaining  
compensation was lower.
AXA paid nearly £8,000 in costs to the lawyer in Mexico to pursue the claim after 
limitation had expired;  they could have  spent that money earlier  on, when his claim 
would have had a greater chance of success.
He didnt at any stage say he would pay £500  towards the Mexican lawyers costs.
Ref: DRN06615405my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont see any reason to change  my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  AXA decided  in January 2014 not to cover  the 
claim, explaining to Mr B that he could bring the claim  himself and if he chose to do so, he 
would need to bear in mind the court deadline. Mr B did pursue the claim himself and 
instructed a firm of solicitors. By the time he went back to AXA in 2016, limitation for court  
action had already  passed. So AXA wasnt responsible for that deadline being missed,  or the 
fact that Mr Bs only option  was the arbitration procedure. AXA didnt cover costs  before then 
because Mr B only went back to AXA in 2016.
Mr B says he didnt agree  to make any payment towards the Mexican lawyers costs.  AXA 
offered to pay £1,500 to either to settle  his claim or to go towards the lawyers fees. Mr Bs 
solicitors said he would  pursue the claim and the lawyer provided two invoices  one to AXA 
for £1,500  and one to Mr B for £500. So that was the basis on which  he was instructed. In 
the end, AXA paid the additional £500 in any event. 
There were some failings in the way the case was handled. But the most I would consider 
would be some compensation  for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr B. And taking  into 
account all the circumstances, including that AXA did pay for costs on the case   and paid 
the £500 that Mr B was to pay for the Mexican  lawyer  I dont think a further payment would 
be fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0661540