K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd refused her claim brought  under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 in relation to faulty goods purchased with a fixed 
sum loan it financed. She wants replacement items or a refund.
background
Mrs C is represented in this complaint by her husband Mr C, but for ease of reading  Ill 
mostly refer to Mrs C.
Mrs C tells us she purchased two identical sofas  from a retailer  Ill call H. She says when 
the furniture arrived  one item was perfect  but the other  looked  as if it had been used - 
possibly as a demonstration model. She says the leather back  cushions were soggy and 
wrinkled and lacked body.
Creation said that an inspection  had been  carried out by a company  Ill refer to as E. It said 
that E had reported that there were some  differences in thickness and density of the seat 
interiors. But had found this was within acceptable  tolerances  and no manufacturing faults  
had been identified.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 June  2020.  I said that I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. I found that there  was insufficient information to show the goods  
werent of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply. And that an experts report had stated 
that there  were no manufacturing faults.
Since issuing my provisional  decision both parties  have indicated  their acceptance of my 
provisional findings. I thank both parties for their responses. In those circumstances I see no 
need to alter any of my findings. Ive largely repeated these  in my final decision which is set 
out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs C has been disappointed by the quality  of one of the sofas with which she was 
supplied.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. And a breach of contract  might occur if goods supplied  werent  of 
satisfactory quality.
Its worth  making clear  that Im not deciding Creations liability  under  section  75 - only a court  
could do that. I take into account the relevant law and that includes section 75. But I decide  
cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires. What  Im deciding  is 
whether Creation did enough in considering Mrs Cs complaint. And if it didnt, what  else it 
should now do.
Where facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I reach my conclusions  on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN08269172Ive been provided  with photographs taken by Mrs C which are good  quality  and I feel are 
sufficient to show the condition of the goods  supplied.
Ive also read the report by Es inspector and noted  the comments. He says that Mrs C and 
her husband  only sit on the one sofa.  So that item has settled down more  than the other. Es 
inspector concluded:
I have inspected the seat interiors and found them  to be fully supportive and fault free. 
There is a difference  in thickness and density but neither set are faulty and well within  
acceptable tolerances".
Even with two items that are supposedly  identical there are likely to be minor differences. 
And I note the inspectors comments about acceptable tolerances.  Of course, what  may be 
acceptable to one individual is not necessarily acceptable to another. But the main point of 
his findings is that there  is no manufacturing  fault.
The photographs show that one sofa appears to be showing more signs  of use than the 
other. But I cant see any obvious damage. With softer material  even  after a short period its 
likely that differences  will be apparent if compared  to a less regularly used  or unused item. 
That doesnt  mean theres a fault rather than its the nature of the items and the materials  
used. And I do have to take into account that Es inspector had the advantage  of being able 
to examine the actual items  and not just rely on photographs.
Ive already said that Im not deciding if Mrs C has a valid section 75 claim. Im deciding  if 
Creation has dealt with her complaint  fairly. Or put another  way, has it looked  at the relevant 
issues and reached  a reasonable decision based  on the information thats available.
The expert report is clear in finding no manufacturing fault. Ive seen nothing that would 
persuade me that this is incorrect. The photographs supplied, in my opinion, do not depict  
damage or support the view that the visible condition of the items is not of satisfactory 
quality. In those  circumstances I think Creation was entitled to conclude thered been no 
breach of contract for which it would  be liable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0826917