K820x#14complaint
Mr C entered into a credit card agreement in August 2016  with Bank of Scotland  plc (trading 
as Halifax). He complains that Halifax was wrong  both to offer him this card with its initial 
credit limit, and then in November 2016  to increase its credit limit. He said that his Halifax  
current account overdraft  was in arrears,  and that he could not afford the required monthly 
credit card repayments. 
Mr C wants Halifax  to refund all interest and other charges applied to his credit card account  
(plus interest), and any existing balance to be written off. He also wants all references 
relating to this account, made  by Halifax on his credit file, to be removed.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 May 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I disagreed with our investigators  view 
that the complaint should be upheld in part. I thought it should  not be upheld.
Neither Mr C nor Halifax responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusion reached  in my provisional decision is correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08625252COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
30 May 2019
complaint
Mr C entered into a credit  card agreement in August  2016 with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax). He complains that Halifax was wrong  both to offer him this card with its initial credit limit, and 
then in November  2016 to increase its credit limit. He said that his Halifax current account overdraft  
was in arrears, and that he could  not afford the required  monthly credit card repayments.  
Mr C wants  Halifax to refund all interest and other charges applied to his credit card account (plus 
interest), and any existing balance to be written off. He also wants  all references relating to this 
account, made by Halifax on his credit file, to be removed.
background
Mr C is represented in his complaint. But, for ease of reading, I refer only to Mr C in this decision.
Mr C initially  complained to Halifax in late June 2018. It responded in mid July 2018 saying:
Mr C completed  an income and expenditure statement when he applied  for his credit card  
this indicated that he had sufficient  disposable income to afford the repayments
Mr Cs application was subjected to a credit scoring  process, which  included review of his 
credit file and consideration of the way he ran his other accounts   this process  indicated  that 
his application should be accepted, based on a £1,400 credit limit
Mr Cs credit limit was reviewed after three months and, because he was operating  his card 
account satisfactorily, he was offered an increase in his credit limit to £2,400  he was told 
that he could decline  this offer
Mr C operated his account  well until January 2018, when he exceeded  his credit limit and 
incurred a £12 charge
Mr C continued to make  minimum monthly payments until May 2018, when he failed to do so 
and started incurring  further charges  it sent letters and text messages to Mr C, asking him 
to contact it 
It had not made  mistakes  in its dealings with Mr C , and it was unable to uphold his complaint
Mr C then referred to us his complaint, which our investigator  thought should  be upheld in part. 
Halifax provided documentary evidence  to us.
Based on this evidence, our investigator was unable  to say that the offer of a card with a £1,400 credit 
limit was unaffordable. He was also unable to say that the increased limit of £2,400  was unaffordable. 
As part of its evidence,  Halifax provided statements of Mr Cs current  account  in 2016.  These showed 
that he had an overdraft  limit of £1,700, of which he made full use. And, although  Mr C did not exceed 
his overdraft  limit, our investigator concluded  that Halifax had acted irresponsibly, when it increased 
his credit card limit so soon after he started operating this account.
Our investigator noted that Mr C had recently been experiencing financial difficulties,  but these  
appeared to be because of a change in his circumstances. And our investigator needed to make 
recommendations for settling Mr Cs complaint, based  on what Halifax  could or should have known in 
2016 about his circumstances.
Records provided to us by Halifax showed that Mr C phoned it in late July 2018.  He told it that he was 
in financial difficulties, but he was unwilling  to disclose  information  about  his situation. He also 
complained that Halifax had not phoned  him, when  he exceeded his credit limit.
Ref: DRN08625253Our investigator noted as well that Mr C had made full use of both his cards initial  and its increased 
credit limit. He said that Mr C should  remain  responsible  for paying back these  funds. But he 
recommended that Halifax should:
Freeze the balance in Mr Cs account and suspend all future interest charges (this may 
already have happened, because of his financial  difficulties)
Refund all interest applied to all credit used above the initial  limit of £1,400 (these refunds 
would then reduce  the outstanding balance  in Mr Cs card account)
Halifax disagreed with our investigators recommendations. It said that:
It had acted within the terms and conditions of Mr Cs card account,  when it increased  his 
credit limit
The disposable income information and credit  score obtained  in August 2016  both indicated 
that Mr C could afford the increased  credit limit
Mr C also disagreed with our investigator. And so this complaint  was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances. 
The evidence  I have seen suggests  that Mr C was experiencing  financial difficulties  from early  2018 
(and possibly  before then). He appears to be having problems from January  2018 with the 
management of his credit  card account. He incurred  charges, initially because  he exceeded his credit 
limit, and then because  he failed to make the required minimum monthly payments. 
Mr C complained to Halifax in late June 2018. He said that it had acted irresponsibly in 2016, when  it 
agreed to supply a credit card with a £1,400 credit limit, and subsequently increased this limit to 
£2,400. Halifax responded in mid July 2018, rejecting his complaint. 
Mr C then phoned  Halifax (in late July 2018) to tell it that he was in financial difficulties. In these  
circumstances, Halifax is expected to respond positively  and sympathetically. But, in order to do so, it 
needs information about Mr Cs financial situation  which  he was unwilling  to disclose.  I have not 
seen evidence of Mr C discussing his financial difficulties  with Halifax  before late July 2018.  
Also in late July 2018, Mr C referred his complaint  about Halifaxs actions in 2016 to us. The evidence  
I have seen suggests:
Mr C was managing his Halifax current account satisfactorily  during 2016,  and staying within  
its overdraft limit (except for part of one day in August 2016)
Mr C was also making well above  the minimum required monthly payments from September 
2016 into his credit  card account (which was opened in August 2016)  and he continued  to 
make at least minimum monthly payments  during 2017
Mr C may have understated both his income  and his expenditure,  when he applied for his 
Halifax credit card in August 2016 (as noted by our investigator)  but Halifax argues that 
other sources of information were included,  in order to assess  affordability
It would  be difficult to argue that either of Halifaxs two decisions in 2016 (on Mr Cs 
application, and to increase his cards  credit limit) were irresponsible
Our investigator did not dispute that Halifax  acted within the terms and conditions of Mr Cs card,  
when it increased its credit limit in November  2016.  He was also unable to say that the increased  limit 
of £2,400  was unaffordable. 
But our investigator concluded that Halifax  had acted irresponsibly, by increasing  his credit limit so 
soon after he started operating this account. He noted  that Mr C was practically at the initial limit in 
Ref: DRN08625254September 2016 and remained there until the increase. I acknowledge our investigators argument,  
although I do not think it is strong enough  to support  his conclusion.
I would need to see further evidence, before  I could conclude that Halifax  made mistakes during 2016  
in its dealings with Mr C. This means, based on the available evidence and on the balance of 
probabilities, I am unable to find (partially or fully) in Mr Cs favour.
But, if Mr C has provided the necessary information to Halifax about his recent financial situation, I 
would expect Halifax to have responded  appropriately  (that is, positively and sympathetically). If the 
first of these actions has occurred, but the second has not, then Mr C might be able to make a 
complaint that would  be upheld.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
C or Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) by 30 June  2019, my provisional decision  is that I do not 
uphold this complaint. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0862525