K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
alongside a credit card.
background
Mrs H has had a credit card with Lloyds since at least  1988. At some point, Lloyds sold 
Mrs H payment protection insurance  (PPI). The cost of the insurance  was charged to the 
account  so shed repay  these premiums with interest in line with the terms and conditions 
of the card.
Mrs H says the policy was mis-sold.
Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt  think  the complaint about  the way the policy was sold should be 
upheld. But Lloyds  Bank PLC did offer to pay back some of the cost of the policy. This is 
because it got a high level of commission from the policy  and because  it didnt tell Mrs H 
about this, it was unfair. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint  and didnt think the policy  was mis-sold. And the 
adjudicator thought what Lloyds had said about  the commission it got was right.
Lloyds has now made a further  offer.  Its original offer of compensation only went  back to 
1994, six years before  the earliest statement it held. Lloyds has now said it will recalculate  
the offer from the start date of the card in 1988.
Mrs H wants a final decision on whether the PPI was mis-sold. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account when deciding Mrs Hs case.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive first thought about when the policy started. Lloyds says that, because  of the time thats 
passed, its not sure when  PPI was added to Mrs Hs account.  But I dont think  thats  
unreasonable bearing in mind that the card started in 1988  and the PPI ended in 2011.
So Ive thought about whats  most likely to have happened based on the information that is 
available.
Mrs H initially  said the policy started  in 2008   it appears she upgraded the card around  this 
time. She then said she thought the PPI started in 1994. Lloyds, though,  assumed the PPI 
started in 1988,  when  the card started,  Lloyds also sent us a policy document from 1987 as 
the one applicable to this sale.
Ref: DRN02228632I accept its possible the PPI was sold later. But in my experience, the most likely date a 
policy is sold is at the time the consumer applies for the credit.  Ive kept this in mind  when 
looking at Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive next looked at whether Mrs H knew she had a choice  to buy this policy  and chose to buy 
it. Lloyds cant show what happened  when the policy was sold  but Mrs H doesnt appear to 
have strong  recollections  of this either.  Im mindful that the PPI appeared on Mrs Hs 
statements throughout the period these  are available   and the PPI remained in force until it 
was cancelled in 2011. So Im not persuaded, based just on what Ive seen,  that Mrs H didnt 
want the policy or agree to buy it.
Lloyds says it would have recommended Mrs H buy the policy.  This means it had to check 
Mrs Hs circumstances to see whether the policy  was right for her. In 1988, Mrs H would 
have been around 52 years  old, and would have been in work. Though  she received some  
sick pay from her employer, this policy would have paid 10% of what  she owed when she 
claimed each month for up to a year if she was off work  sick or lost her job. And based on 
what shes said about her circumstances, it doesnt  look as though shed have been affected 
by any of the main  things  the policy didnt cover.
For similar reasons,  though I cant be sure whether Lloyds gave Mrs H all the information 
shed need to work out if she wanted the policy, I dont think  this would have changed her 
decision to buy the policy. I think the policy would have been useful to her if something went 
wrong.
This means  I dont  think Mrs Hs complaint about  the sale of the policy  should be upheld.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs H about  that. Because Lloyds didnt  tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. It has now offered to recalculate this 
from the date the card started.  I think this offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything else Mrs H has said. But this doesnt affect my conclusions.
what Lloyds needs to do
Lloyds does have  to work out and pay back to Mrs H the difference between what she owes 
and what she would  have  owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt been over 
50% of the cost of the PPI. It should assume  the policy started in 1988, when the card 
opened  and assume the balance of the account  increased gradually  until the start of the 
card. It should also pay Mrs H 8%* simple interest (15%  before April 1993) if she paid off her 
credit card at some point.
I understand Lloyds  has already paid Mrs H some of this. It can take this into account when 
working out the compensation it needs  to pay.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN02228633my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Lloyds Bank plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0222863