K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc blocked  his account, and about  related  matters.
background
In early 2018 TSB blocked Mr Rs account  for security reasons. This resulted in him incurring 
fees. He complained about that to our Service, and in May 2018  one of our ombudsmen  
issued a final decision in which  she said that the block had been justified. She did not uphold 
that complaint.
Shortly afterwards, Mr R asked for that complaint to be re-opened and investigated again.  
He also raised some  other matters. He said that TSB had offered him £25 compensation, 
which he argued was an admission by TSB that it had been wrong to block  his account,  and 
that this was not enough compensation. He said TSB had been slow to respond to his data 
subject access request, and had sent him misleading correspondence  using false names of 
members of staff who did not exist.  He also complained to the police, to the Independent  
Office of Police Conduct (when the police did not respond), and to the economic secretary  to 
the Treasury. He accused the Financial Ombudsman Service and the police of being 
dishonest and racist.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the complaint about the block  
and the blocks  consequences had already been  considered in the original complaint, and a 
final decision  had been issued, and so this Service  would not consider it again.  The £25 
compensation was not for the block, but only for a delay in responding to Mr R because of 
an IT failure. He thought £25 was fair compensation for that problem. The other  matters  did 
not appear to have  been raised with TSB before  Mr R had raised them with our Service,  
which meant that our Service did not have power  to consider them.
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans  decision, and so this case  has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But the only issue I have considered on 
its merits is the matter of TSBs offer of £25 compensation.  The rest of this complaint is 
either out of my jurisdiction, or I have declined to consider  it. I will explain why.
The rules  which govern how the Financial  Ombudsman Service  deals with complaints say 
that the Service can decline to consider a complaint on its merits if it has already  considered  
the complaint  before  (unless  new evidence is provided which  was not available to Mr R 
before and which I agree is likely to affect the outcome, which  is not the case here).  It is not 
in dispute that most of this new complaint is about the same matters  which  were considered 
in the original complaint, and which the original ombudsman  rejected in her final decision at 
the time.  It was made clear to Mr R that a final decision is indeed final, and is the end of our 
Services involvement in a dispute. I see no good reason to depart  from that principle, and so 
I will not reconsider anything to do with the block or about any of the consequences which  
flowed from the block.
The banks offer of £25 compensation was not for the block, but only for the banks delay in 
answering Mr Rs correspondence. This was expressly stated in the letter in which the offer 
was made.  I therefore have considered  this point on its merits, but I think  £25 is in line with 
Ref: DRN09302692what our Service  would typically award  for that sort of thing, and I think  it is a fair offer.  So 
I do not uphold  Mr Rs complaint about  that.
The other matters appear to have been  raised for the first time with our investigator while  he 
was dealing with this complaint. The investigator  asked Mr R if he had raised them with TSB 
before, and Mr R did not say that he had in his reply. So under the rules which set out the 
limits of our Services jurisdiction (rules made  by the Financial Conduct Authority), I do not 
have power to consider these issues. (Even if I could consider them,  I would still have 
declined to consider the complaint about the data subject access  request as I think  that is a 
matter better dealt with by the Information  Commissioners Office.)
my final decision
So my decision is that most of this complaint relates to matters  that this Service has dealt 
with before, and so I will not consider  them again. Other complaint points have not been  
raised with TSB, and so I cannot consider  them. The only issue  I have considered  on its 
merits  whether £25 is insufficient compensation for TSBs delay in responding to Mr Rs 
complaint  I do not uphold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0930269