K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited  (trading as Direct Line) has dealt with a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
A motor cycle collided with Mr S car and his car was written  off. UKI contacted the third 
partys insurer  to find out if it would accept  liability.  But it refused to do so as it said the third 
party said the motor  cycle had been  sold. UKI doubts this is the case as its database  shows  
the third party  insurer  as the motorcycles  insurer. And UKI asked it to produce  documentary 
evidence to support  what it said. The third party  insurer says it hasnt been able to get this 
from its insured and has refused to accept liability. So, UKI has referred  the matter to its 
solicitors to start court  proceedings.
Mr S isnt happy about this. He says taking  court proceedings will slow things down and 
result in his premium increasing  at renewal. He wants senior personnel  at UKI to raise  the 
case again under an escalation process  with their counterparts at the third party insurer.
UKI says it can only use the escalation  process once and not a second time as Mr S would 
like. Thats  why its going to start court proceedings. This process cannot be changed and its 
claims handler has been proactively dealing with the claim to progress it.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Mr S policy says UKI can take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or 
settlement of any claim. And it can take proceedings in Mr S name.
UKI has an agreement with the third partys insurer to refer disputed liability  cases  to 
a discussion between  their senior personnel to try to resolve matters. Under this 
procedure a matter  can be referred only once. And as its already done  so in Mr S 
case it cannot do so again as hed like. Here theres also nothing  new to suggest  the 
third party  insurer might change  its mind.
UKI can chose to start proceedings if it thinks it has a reasonable chance  of success 
as is the case here based on the facts  and available information. 
Overall UKI has acted fairly and reasonably and she will not be asking it to do 
anything more.
Mr S thinks  UKIs process is poor and not in customers best interests. Starting legal action 
will cause unnecessary delay and inconvenience.  We should  be considering what is in the 
customers best interest.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN01395652Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. But we can look into whether UKI 
has conducted a reasonable  investigation  into a claim and acted fairly when making its own 
decision on liability and on how to progress a claim.  
Under the terms of the policy UKIs  entitled  to take over, defend and settle  a claim as it sees 
fit. And it can issue proceedings  in Mr S name. It also doesnt need  his approval of any 
decision to admit liability, settle a claim, make a payment  to a third party or start legal 
proceedings.
Overall I think  UKI has investigated  matters  reasonably. And based on the available  
evidence its tried unsuccessfully to get the third party insurer  to accept liability and to get 
more information  from its insured.
UKI has also used an escalation process  to discuss the case  at senior level with the other  
insurer to see if an agreement could  be reached on liability. That was reasonable but 
ultimately unsuccessful.  This process only allows for any case to be escalated  once. And I 
dont think its unreasonable for UKI to point out that under the agreed terms of the 
escalation process  it cannot  do so again,  as Mr S would  like.
Mr S says this process is poor. But this service  isnt a regulator. We cant  require UKI to 
change its practices and procedures. General issues about how the insurance industry  
works are a matter for the Financial Conduct  Authority. 
UKI has considered  the available evidence and considers it has a reasonable chance of 
successfully pursuing  court  action against the third party.  And its passed the case  to its 
solicitors to start proceedings which I think is reasonable. 
Mr S isnt happy with this saying it will delay resolving this matter which will increase his 
premiums and cause  him problems when insuring a new car. I understand Mr S frustration. 
But taking everything  into account I dont think UKI has done  anything wrong. I think  its 
decision to start legal proceedings is fair and reasonable  and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions.
Overall I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require UKI to anything more or differently. And 
I dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0139565