K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  that Aviva  Insurance Limited settled a claim by a third party under his motor  
insurance policy. He is unhappy that his premiums have now increased.
Background
Mr L was involved in a road traffic accident  in February 2017.  He contacted Aviva to report it. 
He said the accident wasnt his fault and he would try to get CCTV evidence of the accident.  
Mr L said he would get his car repaired  at his own expense as he was due to change  cars.
Mr L was concerned to hear two weeks later that the third party denied liability. So, Aviva 
requested the CCTV evidence.
Aviva emailed Mr L in March 2017 to say that after review  of the evidence it could see Mr Ls 
car moved  forward and collided with the third party.
In a letter from 11 May 2017 Aviva confirmed that the CCTV evidence showed  Mr Ls vehicle 
rolling into the passing third party bus. The letter also said that if the third party  made a claim 
Aviva would ensure  that the damage claimed  was consistent with the circumstances of the 
accident.
The third party didnt  make a claim for damage  to their vehicle until March 2018. Aviva then 
settled the third-party  claim. Aviva communicated its decision to accept liability  on 
29 March 2018.  Mr L responded by raising a complaint with Aviva. He said that liability was 
accepted against his advice and without sufficient evidence in his opinion. Mr L says Aviva 
didnt deal with this complaint.
Mr L complained to our service. He was unhappy that Aviva had settled the claim and not 
given him the opportunity to defend his no claims position.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Aviva were able to settle  the claim 
under the terms  and conditions of the policy.
Mr L disagreed with her view. He said that Aviva  hadnt accepted his representation of what  
happened. In addition,  Mr L was concerned  at the delays and lack of communication. Mr L 
said Aviva  hadnt followed  its own complaints  system.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me to decide.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats  the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look whether  the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and made  a fair and 
reasonable decision. Under Mr Ls policy Aviva has the right to defend  or settle  any claim on 
his behalf. Its entitled  to admit negligence for any accident or claim. That means it might 
make a decision Mr L disagrees with, but the policy allows it to do so. I can consider whether 
its decision to do so was reasonable.
Ref: DRN05114052Mr L says he was very familiar with the road and he has a long history of trouble-free  driving. 
He has also said that the driver of the third-party  vehicle was very shaken and confused. I 
have considered what Mr L has said.
Aviva has relied on CCTV evidence when it decided to accept fault, it said: it showed you 
rolling forward and  colliding  with the side of the passing bus. Mr L is unhappy he hasnt 
had a chance to put his case in court or test the evidence I ve considered whether Aviva  
should have allowed Mr L to test his version of event in court  for example or to test the 
credibility of the CCTV evidence. But having watched the CCTV evidence I think Avivas 
decision is reasonable. It follows that Aviva  can make a commercial decision to increase 
Mr Ls premiums  based on his claims record.
Mr L has also complained  about the lack of communication and the delays in dealing with his 
claim. I have  looked at this and I can see that the main reason for the delay was down to the 
third party. The third party didnt  make a claim until almost a year after the accident. The 
delays in progressing  the claim relate to this rather than anything  Aviva have done wrong. 
So, I wont be asking it to do anything  differently.
Mr L has also said that his complaint against Aviva in April wasnt answered.  I can see that 
Aviva didnt issue a response  to Mr Ls complaint  and Ive considered if this has made  any 
difference to the outcome of his complaint and Im satisfied that it hasnt.
In conclusion I think that Aviva considered the evidence it had before it in order  to decide  on 
liability in this claim. It applied the terms and conditions of the policy and acted fairly  and 
reasonably in doing so. It follows that I wont be asking Aviva to do anything else.
So subject to any further representations by Mr L and Aviva  I was minded to not uphold  the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Aviva have confirmed they have  no comments  on my provisional decision.
Mr L disagrees with my provisional  decision. He has said he is unhappy that Aviva  have not 
dealt with the separate complaint that he made in 2018. He says:
Aviva  didnt deal with the separate complaint.  rolled  into one and didnt follow  their 
own complaints process
Aviva  accepted liability for the accident  without communication re liability and 
evidence
Aviva  failed to keep him informed of the progress  of his case
Aviva  didnt let him know  third party had made  a claim and Aviva accepted liability
My findings
Ive re considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  my provisional 
findings in the light of Mr Ls response  to it.
separate complaint
Ref: DRN05114053Mr L says Aviva didnt deal with the separate complaint that he made in April 2018. He says 
they rolled it into his first complaint  and didnt follow their own complaints process.
In my provisional decision I agreed  that Aviva  didnt follow their complaints  procedure 
following the complaint Mr L made in April 2018.  As a service we cant  penalise  Aviva for not 
following its own complaints process.  But what I need to consider is whether this failure  had 
an effect on the outcome of Mr Ls claim. So, in my provisional decision I went on to consider  
if this failure had a material effect  on the outcome of Mr Ls claim. I concluded that it hadnt. 
The reason  for that is because Aviva can settle  claims without reference  to the policy  holder 
as pe their terms and conditions. I have reconsidered this conclusion in the light of Mr Ls 
comments, and I am satisfied that the claim would have been settled in the same way even if 
Aviva had looked at Mr Ls complaint because Aviva  had decided on fault by May 2017. 
Aviva accepted liability for the accident  without communication or considering his evidence.
Mr L says that Aviva  accepted liability for the accident without taking into consideration the 
evidence he had given  them and without communicating  with him. Mr L has said that his 
complaint to Aviva in April 2018  was about Aviva settling the claim without communicating  
with him on the issue of liability or listening to his concerns about  the evidence  that was 
presented. 
I have looked  again at the correspondence and I am aware that Mr L received an email from 
a claims handler on 17 March 2017 confirming that the CCTV footage  she had viewed 
showed Mr L moving forward to hit the bus and it would mean you will be held liable for this 
incident. So, although  the bus company didnt put a claim in until later on, I can see that 
Mr L was aware of Avivas  position regarding liability from an early stage, that Aviva  would 
hold him liable and this was communicated to him. I have also seen a letter sent to Mr L by 
Aviva dated  26 May 2017 that says the CCTV evidence proves Mr L was at fault.
So, from the evidence  I have seen I think Mr L knew very early on after the accident that he 
would be liable for that claim. I think the only issue outstanding was the amount of the claim. 
So, I cant agree  that Aviva didnt communicate  with him on the issue  of liability. 
Mr L has also said that Aviva decided the issue of liability without consulting him and 
accepting any of his evidence. 
I acknowledge that Mr L found it frustrating that Aviva didnt consider his evidence  and his 
point of view when  they decided on liability. Mr L thinks that had Aviva considered his 
evidence then there would have been a different outcome to his claim.
But I disagree with Mr Ls view because  in reviewing my provisional decision and in reaching  
my final decision I have  taken into account that the terms  and conditions  of Mr Ls policy with 
Aviva allow them to settle a claim without  consulting the policy  holder.  And this is what Aviva 
did.
I have gone on to consider again  whether applying the terms of the policy  was unfair.  The 
decision to accept liability was made  by Aviva  on the basis of CCTV footage.  Aviva  has said 
in correspondence  that on a balance  of probability  Mr L was liable for the accident. I 
appreciate Mr L disagrees with this conclusion and is unhappy that Aviva  didnt accept his 
evidence. But Aviva are entitled to make this decision and I dont think they have acted 
unfairly in doing  so.
Ref: DRN05114054Aviva failed to keep him informed of the progress of his case
I accept that this claim took a long time to settle and that the third party  took a year to 
quantify the value of their claim.  However,  I think that the evidence  shows that Mr L was 
informed very early on that he was at fault for the accident as I have said before. 
I note that Aviva let Mr L know they had received CCTV stills from the third party  on 
22 March 2018.  Mr L responded on the 26 March 2018  reiterating his position and Aviva  said 
that they were  accepting  liability on the 29 March 2018.
I dont think Aviva failed to keep him informed of the progress of his case.  I think  once Aviva 
were aware of the value of the claim in March 2018 then they settled the claim as per their 
letters and emails  to Mr L in March and May 2017. 
Aviva didnt let him know third party had made  a claim and Aviva accepted liability
I contacted Aviva to request their comments on Mr Ls view that he hadnt been  kept 
informed. They have  said that the third party had up to three years to bring a claim and that 
there was nothing to communicate during this period.
Aviva have said that they communicate with customers when there is an update for them 
and in this case, I can see that Aviva did communicate with Mr L when  they accepted liability  
in March 2018. 
I have considered whether Mr L was prejudiced by not being told by Aviva that the bus 
company hadnt  had the bus repaired yet and so there was no way of quantifying the claim 
so far. And I dont think that this made  a difference  to the outcome of the claim because  Mr L 
was told in May 2017 that he was at fault.  So, on balance I dont think  that Aviva have done 
anything wrong  and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
For all these reasons and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case  is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision
My final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0511405