K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 1999. The policy  was taken  out at the
same time as Mr E applied for an Egg credit card. It gave him accident,  sickness and
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed so the complaint  was passed to
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr E applied  for the Egg credit  card online he ticked a box on the screen
indicating he wanted to take out PPI, agreeing with the statement that by ticking the 
box he was confirming hed read and agreed to the terms and conditions of the PPI.
And the options  to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence  on the
screen. So, I think Canada Square  Operations made it clear to Mr E the PPI was
optional and he agreed to take it out.
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E, so it didnt have to
check if it was suitable  for him. It was up to Mr E to decide whether the policy was
 right for him, bearing in mind  his ability to make his credit card repayments  if he was
sick or lost his job.
Its possible Canada Square  Operations didnt give Mr E all the information  about the
PPI that he needed before he made his decision.  But Mr E chose to take out the 
policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover. He wasnt  affected  by any of
the exclusions or limitations.  
Mr Es representative argues that as Mr E had good  sick pay its clear  he would have 
declined the policy if the cost versus  benefit  was pointed out to him. But I disagree. 
This policy was fairly priced in the market and offered  a competitive benefit level.  If 
Mr E was sick the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months,  in addition to his work 
benefits of six months full pay and six months half pay. The PPI would have allowed 
Mr E to use any savings he had to cover  other  living costs whilst not working,  or to 
keep them intact for his future needs.  And Ive seen no evidence  the PPI was 
unaffordable. Overall,  I think it unlikely Mr E wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.
It follows that I dont think Mr E has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
Ref: DRN09038392my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0903839