K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) dealt with a claim on her 
legal expenses insurance. Mrs S is represented by her husband, Mr S. 
background
Mrs S was involved  in a road traffic  accident in September 2017. When  Mrs S notified  RSA 
of the accident,  she said the collision had caused her an injury and damage to a dishwasher 
that was in the car which shed only just purchased.  Mrs S wanted to take legal action to 
recover these losses (as well as some taxi costs), from the other driver, so she made a claim 
on the legal  expenses section of her policy. 
RSA asked a firm of solicitors on its panel  to look into the claim. After performing some  initial  
work on Mrs Ss claim, the solicitors wrote  to her in August last year explaining that having  
considered all of the evidence,  it was their opinion her claim didnt enjoy  reasonable 
prospects of success (which was a requirement  of her policy). The letter  confirmed the 
solicitors would be closing  their files. 
Mr S raised a complaint to RSA on Mrs Ss behalf.  He didnt feel that the solicitors had 
provided sufficient evidence to support their assessment  of Mrs Ss claim. He suggested that 
RSA was only reluctant  to provide  cover  for Mrs Ss claim because hed complained about 
how a separate  claim hed made  in relation to an earlier accident was being  dealt with. He 
said the terms of Mrs Ss policy say RSA should have written to Mrs S to confirm that it no 
longer considered her claim had reasonable prospects of success, not the solicitors. 
Our investigator could  see why Mr S was under the impression that Mrs S should have 
heard from RSA. But she felt the letter from the solicitors made it clear that they werent  
taking any further  action on Mrs Ss claim. She thought Mrs S would have  been  in the same 
position if this confirmation had come  from RSA. And RSA had since confirmed its stance on 
the claim in its final response to her complaint in any event. She didnt think the evidence  
suggested RSA had withdrawn cover  as a result of Mr Ss complaints.  
Mr S disagreed. He said the solicitors hadnt  explained why they thought  Mrs Ss claim didnt 
have prospects of success. He said they only reached this opinion once he involved Mrs S in 
his separate complaint against RSA. 
Having reviewed the file I asked  RSA for further information on why the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. It provided  further comments from the panel  solicitors.
They said the reason was the third party insurer had raised concerns about the link between  
the injuries suffered by Mrs S and the low velocity nature of the incident. Theyd written to 
Mrs S in February 2018 to ask for information  to support her position (including  medical  
information) but didnt  receive a response. 
In the absence of that information they didnt feel the claim had reasonable prospects of 
success which is why cover for it was withdrawn. Mr S told us the medical consent form was 
returned and has referenced an expert  Mrs S saw. But it doesnt appear that information was 
received by either RSA or the panel  solicitors.
Ref: DRN04387132I let both sides have  my initial thoughts on the complaint following this. I said RSA was 
entitled to rely on the legal advice it had now provided as to why the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. But I thought  RSA should have given Mrs S clearer 
information about this at an earlier stage.  If it had done so shed have  known the solicitors 
hadnt received  the information  sent in response  to their letter in February 2018. 
I said if Mrs S was willing to provide this information  again RSA should ask the panel  
solicitors to consider  it and see if this made  a difference to their previous assessment. I also 
said RSA should  pay Mrs S £100  to reflect the inconvenience she was caused because it 
hadnt provided a clearer  explanation for the decline of her claim at an earlier stage.  
In response Mr S suggested the panel solicitors had received the information  they provided. 
And he didnt think the £100 was enough to recognise the impact of the accident on Mrs S. 
RSA also responded.  It said it would ask the panel  solicitors whether more information  would 
make a difference to their previous assessment. It said it wasnt aware the panel  solicitors 
had turned down  the claim and it addressed the issues raised when it responded to the 
complaint Mr S made.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss policy.  In common  with other  legal 
expenses policies it doesnt cover claims which dont have reasonable prospects of success.  
And it defines that as having  a 51% or more chance of successfully  receiving compensation 
in relation to a motor accident which was not the insured persons fault. 
As RSA arent legal experts, in deciding whether a case  has reasonable prospects of 
success, we think  its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a properly written and reasoned 
prospects assessment from a qualified lawyer. In this case  I know Mr S thinks  the decision to 
withdraw funding  for the claim was reached  because of other complaints hed made but Ive 
not seen other evidence  to support that. And I think RSA was entitled to rely on the 
assessment of the panel solicitors that has now been provided - if Mr S believes the 
solicitors did receive the information he sent thats  an issue  he may want  to raise  with them.  
However, I continue to feel RSA should  have made it clearer  at an earlier  stage to Mrs S 
why the claim didnt have  reasonable prospects of success. Under the terms of the policy  it 
does appear RSA should have done that. And while I appreciate  RSA wasnt aware the 
panel solicitors had closed the case, once it did become  aware of this it didnt let Mr and 
Mrs S have the full rationale its now provided to us. If that had been done  earlier  Mr S would 
have known at that stage  the assessment wasnt based on the information hes referenced  in 
his response to us. 
I think RSA should  pay Mrs S £100  because of the inconvenience  she was caused  by that. I 
appreciate that amount doesnt  recognise the impact of the accident itself on Mrs S but its 
not intended to do so. Its a payment for the inconvenience she was caused  by the delay in 
providing a full explanation of the reasons  for the decline of the claim.
Ref: DRN04387133RSA also says its asking  the panel solicitors whether further  information  from Mr S would 
make a difference to their previous assessment. But Im not clear how that can be done 
without sight of the relevant information. So my view remains that if Mr S is able to provide 
this information  again RSA should  then ask the panel solicitors whether it makes  a difference  
to their previous  decision. 
Mr S also queried why we hadnt  considered a complaint against the panel solicitors as he 
said they were an FCA authorised firm. However, while that is the case, in providing advice 
on the prospects  of success of his legal expenses  claim they werent carrying out an activity  
which our rules allow us to consider. So this isnt something we can look at. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc will need to 
put things right by paying Mrs S £100.  And if Mr S (on her behalf) is able to provide the 
information in support  of her claim he previously supplied RSA should ask its panel solicitors  
whether this makes  a difference  to their previous decision  on the claims prospects of 
success. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S (on behalf  of 
Mrs S) to accept  or reject  my decision before  2 June 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0438713