K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
During a meeting in 2002 Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage with Santander. At the same  
time they took out a PPI policy in Mr Bs sole name to protect their repayments  if Mr B lost 
his job or was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he didnt think  there  was 
enough information to conclude the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr and Mrs B disagree. They say they dont recall being made  aware the policy  was 
optional. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. Santander  had to make it clear the PPI was optional 
and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs B say this wasnt done  but havent  given  us 
much detail about what was said at the meeting to make them  think this. But I think thats 
understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more on what  the documents 
from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  and there is nothing on it about PPI. This is 
because the PPI policy was a standalone policy and applied  for on a separate  application 
form with a separate direct debit from the mortgage.  Due to the passage of time Santander 
doesnt have a copy of the application form that was completed for Mr B but I think it was 
likely a form was completed as I have seen a copy of the welcome letter sent out to them 
which confirms Mr B applied for PPI and that a direct debit payment had been set up for it. 
So I think PPI was presented as separate from the mortgage and I think its likely Mr and Mrs 
B wouldve understood they had a choice in taking the policy and that it was separate  from 
the mortgage. 
This was an advised  sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs B could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr Bs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Santander took all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN01939682Mr B says he was self-employed at the time the policy  was sold but the mortgage 
application shows he was employed and lists the name of his employer.  So I think  he 
was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been  caught by any of the 
main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made it difficult 
to make  a successful claim.
Mr B hasnt told us of any entitlement he had in terms of sick pay and Im not aware of 
any savings or other means Mr and Mrs B had to make their mortgage payments  if Mr B 
was unable  to work.  But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits or other  
means and covered  their mortgage payments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr B was 
too sick to work or lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs B in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve been  interested in protecting  them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs B at the 
time. I note that in 2004 they amended  their policy to increase the benefit so I think  they 
were aware of the cost and if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they could 
cancel it. 
I also need to consider  whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs B information  in a way which  
was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or 
not they wanted to take the policy out. I dont  know if Santander gave all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr and 
Mrs B have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
the PPI policy  if theyd been given  all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means  Mr and Mrs B arent  any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against 
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0193968