K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains HSBC  UK Bank  Plc (trading as first direct) wont  refund money she lost 
when she fell victim to an investment scam.
background
Mrs D had saved money  for while and decided shed like to invest it. She found an 
investment she liked online,  but it was no longer available.  A few months later she received 
calls, documentation  and emails from a supposed investment company which Ill call F. 
Mrs D was sent literature  for an investment which covered the performance of a bond, what 
charges applied, application  forms and other  such material. She was attracted to a five-year 
government bond  that was said to achieve a 10% return per annum and so she applied for it.
Mrs D was asked by F to transfer £4,000  as a deposit towards  her investment. She was 
provided the sort code and account number of a UK account into which  to make payment  
the account wasnt held in the name of F. 
Mrs D wished to place  further money into her investment and encashed an existing ISA she 
held with Halifax. This time she was given the sort code and account number of an account 
held abroad into which to make her payment  of around £14,000. This transaction was 
stopped by Halifax because it looked suspicious  and her account  suspended for a few days. 
As a result of this action, Mrs D was prompted to make further enquiries of F. She told it of 
the stopped payment and that she was worried about the security  of her deposit.  F tried to 
reassure Mrs D that it was an authorised entity  and provided links for various parts  of its 
group to show that it was regulated. But Mrs D noted that these links were for businesses  
abroad and remained  worried  about her deposit,  so much so that she asked for it to be 
returned. Mrs D also, with a friend,  carried out some research with the Financial Conduct  
Authority and was told the business  wasnt genuine. Although Mrs D was sent account  
closure forms by F and was promised a refund, this never materialised. It was a scam.
Mrs D told first direct of the fraudulent transaction on 1 February 2019. It contacted the 
recipient bank, but no funds remained in the account  to return  to her. Not happy with that, 
Mrs D asked us to look into matters.  We asked first direct to investigate the complaint, but it 
was satisfied it hadnt done anything  wrong.
Our investigator also didnt think first direct had done anything wrong. He noted the banks 
comments that Mrs D had sent similar payments of similar  types  and so this wasnt  out of 
character for her account. He ultimately  concluded  first direct  couldnt have been expected to 
realise the payment might not have been to a genuine destination. 
Mrs D is very unhappy with the outcome,  given  this had been hard-earned savings. She 
remains of the view that first direct  ought to have intervened and stopped  the payment being 
made, given this was a lot of money and unusual for her. 
When the complaint  was referred to me, I asked for further information about the offered 
refund by F  and statements show this wasnt received. And I asked for information from 
the bank to support its view that Mrs D had made similar transactions  from the account. That 
information hasnt  yet been provided, so I think it is now appropriate to move this case  
forward on the basis of the information  already  before me (as our case handling rules 
Ref: DRN09590652expressly permit: see the rules and guidance  in DISP 3.5 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook).  
I issued my provisional decision on 23 March 2021.  I said:
Our investigator indicated  this fraud  had occurred  as a result  of a malicious email  redirection 
scam from someone purporting to work  for a legitimate company with a very similar 
sounding name to F. But having considered all the evidence Mrs D has provided, I actually 
think she has been scammed  by parties  cloning,  to a large degree,  a genuine investment 
company. There are a number of genuine  and legitimate businesses  that do offer 
investments with very similar,  if not identical,  names  to those used  by F. 
There isnt any dispute that Mrs D authorised the payment  out of her account to a scammer. 
The documentation  Mrs D was sent looked legitimate. It included application information, 
performance indicators  and, amongst  other things, suggested the business  was regulated in 
various jurisdictions including here by the Financial  Conduct Authority. Mrs D reports that the 
person she spoke with was very convincing and that it was over the course of several 
conversations that she decided  to invest.  F went so far as to inform Mrs D that it needed  to 
carry out money laundering checks before it would accept her investment. On the face of it, I 
can understand why Mrs D believed this was genuine. 
The payment from Mrs D was authorised even though she was the victim of a scam. She 
made the payment online using her security  credentials and her secure  key. Although  she 
didnt intend to get scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, which apply  to 
this transaction,  and the general  terms and conditions of bank accounts, Mrs D is presumed 
liable in the first instance. 
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time, I consider first direct 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
This was Mrs Ds first payment to the scammer.  It followed  Mrs D transferring money in from 
her savings account. £4,000 was a lot of money  to Mrs D and, contrary to what first direct  
and our investigator said, is not indicative of other  payments out of her account  in the 
previous six months.  Her statements show that her largest transactions were in the region of 
£500 for mortgage repayments or other  regular expenditure. This type of regular spending 
indicates that a payment of £4,000 was atypical  for Mrs D  and might reasonably have 
flagged as unusual  or uncharacteristic to first direct given its longstanding due diligence 
obligations at the time (such as those  examples  listed above). 
Ref: DRN09590653I accept that account  holders can and do make  legitimate large transactions that might be 
unusual for them. If a bank hasnt been  pre-warned of an uncharacteristically  large payment, 
customers might reasonably expect to receive  a call from their bank just to check  that 
everything is okay. I think most people wouldnt object to that. This transaction  was an 
increase of 400% from Mrs Ds usual spending. And although  the transaction was being 
made to another UK bank account, I think it was uncharacteristic and unusual for the 
account, such that first direct ought to have been  put on notice to make further enquiries. 
But first direct didnt make  any enquiries  nor ask any appropriate probing questions about  
why the transaction was being made.  Had it done  so, I have no reason  to doubt that Mrs D 
would have told them about the investment; that she had been cold-called;  and was going 
to invest in a five-year  government bond to achieve  a 10% per annum return. first direct  
would or should  have  known that genuine  investment companies dont usually contact 
prospective investors out of the blue.  And more  importantly,  as the professional  party and 
not a layperson,  would have known that such  an investment was far too good to be true  
low-risk, gilt-edged  investments such as government bonds do not nowadays  earn 10% 
returns per year, something  that is likely only possible now long-term  through high-risk  
investments such as stocks and shares. I think had first direct warned  Mrs D that her 
investment didnt sound legitimate on the face of things,  she would have had second 
thoughts about what she was doing  and subsequently wouldnt have made  the payment. 
I say this because  once Halifax  exercising due diligence in line with regulatory  guidance  
and good industry  practice  stopped her other transaction as suspicious,  Mrs D undertook 
her own further research through F and through the regulator. And the answers she was 
provided didnt  reassure her; she ultimately asked  for a refund. And the regulator informed 
her the business  she was investing with wasnt legitimate.  So had first direct questioned Mrs 
D in line with a banks duty to act fairly and reasonably, it seems probable that she would 
have become aware of the scam and stopped the payment. The fraud would  have failed, 
and Mrs D wouldnt have lost £4,000. 
But that isnt the end of the matter.  In balancing competing obligations and what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, I have also considered whether Mrs D should bear 
some responsibility for the situation in which she finds  herself.  
Although Mrs D has been the victim of a scam, I note from her correspondence that she had 
concerns about  where she was sending the money to  particularly  the account name. In an 
email to us of 31 October 2019, Mrs D said:
You need to find out from them how many other transactions that day week month 
went through that account call KS [my redaction]  which in itself caused alarm to me 
from word GO and yes I should have  stop it there but I put my faith in both 
banks[sic]
Despite all the consumer  protections that exist,  our enabling statute  the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000  expressly recognises that consumers  must also take responsibility 
for their decisions. I must factor that in to the overall  balance of whats  fair and reasonable. 
Banks arent  the only party  responsible  for keeping customers money safe  the customer is 
too. Mrs D had more than mere concerns about where the money  was being sent; she was 
alarmed  and this indicates that she foresaw some sort of risk, even if not precisely the 
Ref: DRN09590654ones that ultimately  transpired. This was a strong feeling; yet despite the perceived risk, she 
went ahead  with a payment  she acknowledges she ought not to have made. I therefore find 
she is partly  responsible for her loss; had she acted on her alarm,  she would never have 
made the payment. It follows that I dont find it fair for all of the responsibility for her loss to 
be assigned to the bank, or therefore  that it should  reimburse all of her loss. There  needs to 
be a fair reduction  to account for Mrs Ds contribution to what unfolded. 
Summary
Im currently  minded to find the bank should have done more  when Mrs D made her 
payment request. And, as such, Im currently  minded  to ask it to reimburse most of Mrs Ds 
losses. But Im also currently minded to find that Mrs D should also bear some responsibility 
for her losses given she didnt heed  her own misgivings. I am satisfied that a 25% deduction 
in compensation  would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. (There is some legal 
authority for this sort of contributory deduction where a bank is primarily but not solely  
responsible for failing to spot and prevent  fraud: see, for example, the Supreme Court  in 
Singularis Holdings Ltd v Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe Ltd [2019] UKSC 50.) 
Finally, Im satisfied that once first direct was told of the scam it acted quickly to try and 
recoup Mrs Ds funds. However,  as is often the case with scams, money is withdrawn from 
the scammers account very quickly. Mrs D sent her payment on 17 January and it was 
withdrawn by the scammer on 18 January.  So when  Mrs D reported  the scam,  there  were  no 
funds left to be recouped.  Im satisfied first direct acted promptly once notified of what  
happened. 
Both parties  have now responded to my provisional decision and so the complaint can now 
progress to our final stage. 
first direct has acknowledged the payment  amount was out of character but that no fraud 
check was triggered.  Although it doesnt necessarily agree with everything  the ombudsman  
said it concurs with the findings that Mrs D could have done more due diligence  herself.  It 
therefore believes liability should be split equally and so would like to offer a refund of half 
the losses  £2,000  plus interest, which it considers  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
The offer was put to Mrs D to see if she wished to settle, but she didnt. In summary, she 
remains of the view the bank ought  to have done more  in relation to this payment, 
particularly as the money was going  to a weird account name.  She is of the view the 
amount recommended  in the provisional decision is fairer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my provisional findings. 
In making an offer of 50% of the losses, plus interest, first direct has referred  to a code which 
has been put in place  for losses of this type which allows for a reduction in reimbursement in 
certain circumstances   namely  if the account  holder bears  some  responsibility for the 
losses. However, this code wasnt introduced until sometime after this payment was made, 
so it doesnt strictly apply.  Nevertheless,  its clear Ive thought about whether Mrs D ought to 
Ref: DRN09590655bear some responsibility for her losses, which I did, of 25%;  the reasons for which were 
given in my provisional  findings. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs D and first direct bear equal responsibility for the losses.  I remain  
of the view that primary responsibility for Mrs Ds losses  lay with first direct given its due 
diligence obligations  at the time, and that it didnt intervene despite, as it now acknowledges,  
the payment being out of character for the account. 
I note Mrs D has referred to the weird  account  name and that should have put the bank on 
notice. But at the time this payment was made, the name had no relevance to the payment 
being sent, only the sort code and account  number were used. In any event, Im not sure the 
bank would have  known Mrs Ds payment  was intended to be an investment, rather  than for 
something else, such that it ought to have been  put on notice something was wrong from 
that alone. And this doesnt  detract from her own misgivings. 
Finally, Mrs D has referred to the bank  account  the money was sent to, that funds would 
have been transferred in and out and questions how the money  was withdrawn in 24 hours  if 
you cannot withdraw more than £250 a day. Mrs D has already been  sent a decision by one 
of my colleagues to explain  we cannot consider any complaint she has about the recipient 
account. Nevertheless in general terms the £250 a day Mrs D refers to is likely to apply to 
cash machine withdrawals, it is highly unlikely to apply  to withdrawals or transfers to other 
accounts carried out online or in branch. However, this is speculation on my part, as I am not 
privy to any information  about the recipient account.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint and require HSBC  UK Bank plc, trading as 
first direct, to reimburse £3,000 of Mrs Ds losses. I also require it to pay interest on that 
amount at the rate of interest her money was earning in the savings  account  she transferred 
it from, from the date of loss to the date of settlement. 
If HSBC considers its legally required to deduct income tax from the interest (if its payable),  
it must  send  a tax deduction certificate  if Mrs D asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2021.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0959065