K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc acted  unfairly and unreasonably by charging  him 
an early repayment charge (ERC) when he repaid his mortgage early. He wants  the ERC 
refunded.
background
Mr M had a buy to let mortgage with Clydesdale which,  if repaid early, meant that an ERC 
would be due. Mr M repaid his mortgage  about  six weeks early,  and said that he was willing  
to pay the interest  due until the end of the discounted interest rate period  to avoid the ERC. 
Clydesdale insisted that the ERC was paid. Mr M said that it wasnt possible to delay the 
sale of the property as the buyer  insisted  on completion as early  as possible. Mr M also said 
if hed been able to keep  the property and change  the mortgage product, the ERC wouldve 
been waived,  which he didnt think was fair as he wanted to sell the property.
Mr M complained to Clydesdale. It said the ERC  was clearly set out within the mortgage  
offer Mr M accepted when he took out the product,  and it wouldnt be refunded.
Mr M complained to us. The investigators  view was that Clydesdale  wasnt  at fault. She said 
that the mortgage offer did clearly  set out the ERC and it had been fairly applied.  The 
investigator pointed  out that the offer also told Mr M that the mortgage  could  be transferred 
to a new property  to avoid paying  the ERC and it wasnt unreasonable for a lender to enforce  
its legal  entitlement  to the ERC.
Mr M disagreed. He said it wasnt fair that the ERC  would be waived for those transferring 
the mortgage to another property and his offer to avoid the ERC  shouldve been accepted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERCs are lawful if theyre set out clearly in the mortgage offer accepted by the borrower  and 
are a genuine pre-estimate of loss if the mortgage  is repaid early.  While some lenders offer 
to reduce the ERCs over the course of the products life, this isnt required. Lenders  can 
estimate loss over a number of mortgage  products, and the reason why there may be a loss 
may be because the lender is borrowing the mortgage money elsewhere. Such transactions  
are complex.
Mr M accepts that he knew of the ERC  when he took the mortgage  product out. Thats why 
he made an offer to avoid paying it. But as the ERC was clearly set out in the offer he 
accepted, I cant  say that he didnt know about  it. Mr M when he accepted the offer agreed to 
pay the ERC if he repaid the mortgage early. The fact that he couldnt delay the sale to the 
successful buyer doesnt change  that; it was his choice  to proceed knowing of the ERC.  
Mr M hasnt  suggested that the ERC  wasnt a genuine pre-estimate  of loss; he simply says 
that he shouldnt  have had to pay it. But theres  no rule that requires a lender to waive  an 
ERC to which its lawfully entitled in these  circumstances.
Ref: DRN00184622Mr M says that it isnt fair that he was about only six weeks away from being able to repay 
the mortgage early  without paying  the ERC.  But as Ive explained,  the ERC is designed to 
cover the whole of the discounted period and is connected to the overall  estimate of loss  
its not looked at on an individual basis. And equally,  Mr M couldve chosen to delay the sale, 
particularly if he was unhappy about the sale price (something for which  Clydesdale wasnt  
responsible). While  he wanted  to sell the property, it was his choice to do so when he did.
Mr M says that if hed taken out a new product, the ERC wouldve been waived. But lenders 
can offer incentives to borrowers to stay with it without meaning  the legal agreement  to pay 
an ERC cant be fairly charged to those who dont stay. Mr M was in a different position to 
those transferring a mortgage  he wasnt going  to continue the relationship  with Clydesdale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
27 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0018462