K821x#15Complaint
Mr F has complained about a hire-purchase  agreement which BMW  Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services) entered into him with. Hes said the monthly 
payments for the agreement were  unaffordable for him bearing  in mind his financial 
circumstances.
Background and my provisional decision of 22 December 2020
In September  2017, Mr F entered into a hire purchase agreement  for a brand-new  car. The 
purchase price was £176,670.00. Mr F paid a deposit of £8,234.00 . The remaining 
£168,436.00 was funded  by a hire-purchase agreement with Alphera. The loan had an 
annual percentage rate (APR) of 5.8% and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly  instalments. 
This meant that the total charge for credit  was £23,010.26.  The monthly payments were 
around £2,745.46 and there was a final instalment  of £92,609.70, which included a £1 option 
to purchase fee. 
Mr F made the first few payments due under the agreement.  But after failing  to make the 
payments to the agreement from April 2018 onwards, in May 2018, Mr F approached 
Alphera about selling the vehicle back to the dealership that sold it to him and settle the 
outstanding balance on the agreement. As I understand it, Mr F was told hed have to repay 
the total amount outstanding (once  the sale proceeds were deducted) in one payment, or he 
would need to repay £72,387.91 to voluntarily terminate the agreement.  Mr F opted to 
voluntarily terminate and subsequently complained to Alphera saying it acted irresponsibly 
when entering  into this agreement with him. 
Alphera didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. As far as it was concerned, all of its checks  indicated 
Mr F would be able to afford  the monthly payments  and that was the reason for the 
agreement being  approved. Mr F remained  dissatisfied and referred his complaint to us. The 
complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think  Alpheras checks 
before providing  the finance  were  reasonable and proportionate. He also thought  such 
checks would more  likely than not have shown Mr F couldnt afford the monthly payments. 
Alphera didnt  agree, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
I attach my provisional decision of 22 December  2020, which forms part of this final decision 
and should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why I 
intended to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further comments  
they may have had, by 22 January 2021, before I reached a final decision.
Following this, both Alphera  and Mr F responded to confirm receipt of my decision and say 
that they had nothing  further to add. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to uphold Mr Fs complaint in my provisional  decision. 
In the absence of anything  further to consider from either party, I see no reason to change  
my conclusions.
Ref: DRN03071662So having  carefully considered everything, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  Alphera  needs  to do to put things right  for Mr F
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Alphera putting Mr F in
the position hed now be in if she hadnt been  sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr F
was given the car in question and it has since been returned to Alphera. So, in these
circumstances, I cant  undo  whats already  been  done. And its simply not possible to put
Mr F back in the position he would  be in if he hadnt  been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances. Id like to explain the reasons why I 
think that it would be fair and reasonable for Alphera to put things right in the following way.
Our website  sets out the main  things we consider when looking  at putting things right in
cases where we conclude a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back  the credit amount
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit  of the credit that they were
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and
charges  that will have  caused the consumer to lose out.
So, in this case, this would mean Mr F paying  back the £168,436.00  he was originally lent. 
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate  here. The car 
was taken back relatively soon after the agreement started and a settlement on this basis 
would mean  Mr F paying for the full amount lent for a car he had for a few months, without 
owning the car at the end. 
Ive therefore  given careful thought  to how else it might  be fair and reasonable to put things 
right for Mr F bearing in mind he was provided with a hire-purchase  agreement  here.
In circumstances  where a borrower was provided  with finance to purchase a car they were
unable to afford to make  the payments for, its usually appropriate for the car to be returned
and the agreement ended. Mr Fs car was returned to Alphera  some time ago and the 
agreement was ended at this point. So clearly  there  is no need for Mr F to now return  the 
car. But Alphera does need to waive the final VT payment  it says is outstanding. As Im 
saying that this is what Alphera needs to do, Im satisfied that I dont  need  to make an 
additional award for its lack of forbearance when Mr F sought to exit the agreement.
Ive also thought about the deposit Mr F paid. Its clear that Mr F only made this payment 
because he was provided with an unaffordable hire purchase agreement. So Im satisfied 
that Mr Fs deposit of £8,234.00 should be returned to him, with interest of 8% simple  a year 
added from the date this payment was made.
Mr F did have  use of the car for a period  of time.  And I think  that its fair and reasonable for
my award to reflect this. There  isnt an exact formula for working  out fair usage.  But in
deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the
agreement, Mr Fs usage of the car and what sort of costs he might  have incurred to stay
Ref: DRN03071663mobile if he didnt  have this car. 
In doing so, Im mindful that although Mr F didnt drive the car all that much  in the period he 
had it  the email  correspondence between Mr F, Alphera and the dealer suggests  less than 
500 miles  he was nonetheless  provided  with the use of a brand-new luxury  vehicle. 
Bearing this in mind, I think that its fair and reasonable for Alphera to keep all of the monthly  
payments it collected  while Mr F had use of the car. 
Mr Fs credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on any loans or credit they 
shouldnt have been given. Ive not seen anything here which  leads me to think such  a 
direction would be unfair here. So having  carefully  thought about everything, Alphera should 
remove any negative information  that it has recorded on Mr Fs credit file about this 
agreement. 
All of this means  that Im intending to say that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint for Alphera to put things right in the following way:
Refund Mr Fs deposit with interest of 8% simple per year; AND
Waive any amount outstanding after the termination of the agreement;
Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  about  this agreement on Mr Fs 
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 20 December 2020,  Im 
upholding Mr Fs complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr F to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 13 February 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN03071664COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr F has complained about a hire-purchase  agreement which BMW  Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services) entered into him with. Hes said the monthly 
payments for the agreement were  unaffordable for him bearing  in mind his financial 
circumstances.
Background
In September  2017, Mr F entered into a hire purchase agreement  for a brand-new  car. The 
purchase price was £176,670.00. Mr F paid a deposit of £8,234.00. The remaining 
£168,436.00 was funded  by a hire-purchase agreement with Alphera. The loan had an 
annual percentage rate (APR) of 5.8% and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly  instalments. 
This meant that the total charge for credit  was £23,010.26.  The monthly payments were 
around £2,745.46 and there was by a final instalment of £92,609.70,  which  included a £1 
option to purchase  fee. 
Mr F made the first few payments due under the agreement.  But after failing  to make the 
payments to the agreement from April 2018 onwards, in May 2018, Mr F approached 
Alphera about selling the vehicle back to the dealership that sold it to him and settle the 
outstanding balance on the agreement. As I understand it, Mr F was told hed have to repay 
the total amount outstanding (once  the sale proceeds were deducted) in one payment, or he 
would need to repay £72,387.91 to voluntarily terminate the agreement.  Mr F opted to 
voluntarily terminate and subsequently complained to Alphera saying it acted irresponsibly 
when entering  into this agreement with him. 
Alphera didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. As far as it was concerned, all of its checks  indicated 
Mr F would be able to afford  the monthly payments  and that was the reason for the 
agreement being  approved. Mr F remained  dissatisfied and referred his complaint to us. The 
complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think  Alpheras checks 
before providing  the finance  were  reasonable and proportionate. He also thought  such 
checks would more  likely than not have shown Mr F couldnt afford the monthly payments. 
Alphera didnt  agree, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
The regulatory and legal framework
Alphera lent to Mr F while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here 
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says: 
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Ref: DRN03071665And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:  
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules which apply to providers of 
consumer credit like Alphera.  Bearing in mind  the complaint  before  me, I think  the most 
relevant sections of CONC  here are CONC 1 which  sets out guidance in relation to financial 
difficulties; CONC 5 which sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible  lending;  and 
CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations after a consumer  has entered  into a regulated 
agreement.
CONC 1.3G provides  guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following  matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware  or ought  reasonably  to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1)consecutively failing  to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store  
card;
(2)adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3)outstanding  county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4)inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment  of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow  further to repay existing debts,  or the customer  only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets  or security;
(5)consecutively failing  to meet repayments  when due;
(6)agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution ;
(7)evidence of discussions with a firm (including  a not-for-profit debt advice  body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management  plan or other  debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the previous regulator,  the Office  of 
Fair Tradings (OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG) and the rules  set out in CONC. 
As is evident from the following  extracts,  the FCAs CONC  rules specifically note and refer 
back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many  occasions.
CONC 4 sets out a firms obligations  around  pre-contract disclosure  and adequate 
explanations. 
CONC 4.2.5R(1) says:  
Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must: 
Ref: DRN03071666(a) provide the customer with an adequate  explanation of the matters referred to in 
(2) in order to place  the customer in a position  to assess  whether the agreement  is 
adapted to the customers  needs  and financial situation.
CONC 4.2.5R(2) includes: 
(a) the features  of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided  under 
the agreement  unsuitable for particular types of use; 
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can 
be determined, in total under the agreement;  
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which  would have 
a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer  is unlikely 
to foresee.  
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. These rules were  
updated in November 2018,  but I refer below to the rules as they were at the time Alphera  
lent to Mr F in September 2017.  
CONC 5.2.1R(2) sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to provide a consumer  
with credit,  including  entering into an agreement of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information  of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. 
CONC 5.2.3G says:  
The extent  and scope  of the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case,  should  be dependent  upon and proportionate to factors 
which may include one or more of the following: 
(1)the type of credit ; 
(2)the amount  of the credit ; 
(3)the cost of the credit; 
(4)the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking  the credit ; 
Ref: DRN03071667(5)the customers credit history, including any indications  that the customer  is 
experiencing or has experienced  financial difficulties;  
(6)the customers existing financial commitments  including any repayments  due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated 
mortgage contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, 
telecommunications, water and other major outgoings known to the firm; 
(7)any future financial commitments of the customer; 
(8)any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably  expected to 
have a significant financial adverse impact on the customer ; 
(9)the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental  capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this 
to be so because  the customer displays indications of some form of mental 
capacity limitation (see CONC 2.10).  
[Note: paragraph 4.10 of ILG]
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:  A firm should  consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) says: In making the creditworthiness  assessment or the 
assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more  than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says: The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say: 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
Ref: DRN03071668(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
 unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)
states: (a) it is not generally  sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a 
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the 
customer has not been truthful  in completing  the application in relation to information 
supplied by the customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) is an act established for the protection of consumers 
and the control  of traders of the provision  of credit. S56 of the Act provides as follows:
56 Antecedent negotiations 
(1)  In this Act antecedent negotiations means  any negotiations with the debtor or 
hirer
(a)  conducted by the creditor  or owner  in relation  to the making of any 
regulated agreement, or
(b)  conducted by a credit-broker in relation to goods  sold or proposed to be 
sold by the credit-broker to the creditor before forming the subject-matter  of a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  within  section  12(a) , or
(c)  conducted by the supplier in relation  to a transaction financed or 
proposed to be financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement 
within section 12(b) or (c),and negotiator  means  the person by whom 
negotiations are so conducted with the debtor  or hirer.
(2)  Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall 
be deemed to be conducted  by the negotiator in the capacity of agent  of the creditor 
as well as in his actual capacity.
(3)  An agreement is void if, and to the extent that, it purports in relation to an actual 
or prospective regulated agreement
Ref: DRN03071669(a)to provide that a person acting as, or on behalf of, a negotiator  is to be 
treated as the agent of the debtor or hirer,  or
(b)to relieve a person from liability for acts or omissions of any person acting 
as, or on behalf of, a negotiator.
(4)  For the purposes of this Act, antecedent negotiations shall be taken to begin  
when the negotiator and the debtor or hirer first enter into communication (including 
communication by advertisement), and to include any representations made by the 
negotiator to the debtor or hirer and any other dealings  between them.
So one of the purposes of Section 56 CCA  is to deem credit-brokers and suppliers to be the 
agent of the creditor when  conducting  antecedent negotiations with a debtor in relation to 
goods and services purchased with finance  under  debtor-creditor-supplier agreements. 
Section 99 CCA sets out a consumers right to terminate a hire purchase  or conditional sale 
agreement by giving notice. It states:
99 Right to terminate hire-purchase etc. agreements.
(1)At any time before  the final payment  by the debtor  under  a regulated  hire-
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
 
(2)Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability  
under the agreement  which has accrued before the termination
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination:
100 Liability of debtor on termination of hire-purchase etc. agreement.
(1)Where a regulated  hire-purchase or regulated conditional  sale agreement is 
terminated under section  99 the debtor shall be liable,  unless the agreement  
provides for a smaller  payment, or does not provide  for any payment,  to pay to 
the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half  of the total price exceeds  the 
aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price 
immediately before the termination
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments provided from the outset in order to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and law, and considering  the main reason 
for Mr Fs complaint, I think there  are two overarching questions that I needed to consider in 
order to provisionally  decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
These questions are:
Ref: DRN030716610Did Alphera complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr F wouldve been able to do so?
Did Alphera act unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr F in some  other  way?
If I determine that Alphera did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and that 
he has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider whats  fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider  the first of the overarching  questions.
Did Alphera complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Mr F would 
be able to repay in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when Alphera  lent to Mr F required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr F could afford to make  his repayments in a sustainable  manner. 
This is sometimes  referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
Any affordability checks should have been  borrower-focused  so Alphera had to think 
about whether  making the payments sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr F. In other words, it wasnt enough for Alpheras lending decision to 
only consider the likelihood that it would get its money back, or that it had the ability to 
repossess the vehicle,  without considering the impact making these payments would have 
on Mr F.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater  and the customer is required  to make payments for a 
longer period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
Ref: DRN030716611Alpheras checks
Ive considered the checks Alphera  says it carried out in this particular case. It seems  to me 
Alphera is relying on its background checks and the declaration Mr F signed as having  been 
sufficient to determine that the monthly  payments  were affordable. But as far as I can see, all 
Alphera has provided is a Consumer Credit  Finance Factsheet which  Mr F signed to confirm  
he had approximately  monthly budget of over £2,000  in order to make his payments.  Even  if 
this is the case,  I dont  see how this in itself translates into Mr F being able to afford as much  
as £2,750 a month
And while Alphera has provided  the output of the credit checks,  theres nothing  at all on the 
output of its background checks,  what it was in them that led it to conclude Mr F could  afford 
to make the monthly  payments  of approaching £2,750 a month,  or anything else about        
Mr Fs monthly  expenditure. Indeed, it seems to me that Alphera  simply expects  us to accept 
Mr Fs payments were  affordable because its systems approved it. 
Considering the amount advanced, the monthly  payment and the fact the loan was provided 
relatively recently, I find the paucity of detailed documentation provided to be astonishing. 
For example, Alphera cannot or will not even  tell us the monthly  income it had recorded for 
Mr F even  though the credit check showed a substantial  amount of existing debt and at least  
one of his accounts had defaulted. And as Alphera says it gathered sufficient information, in 
line with its regulatory  obligations, to inform  its lending decisions, its extremely  disappointing 
that Alphera hasnt provided it to me. 
This service cannot and will not look for evidence and construct an argument  to support 
Alpheras defence  of Mr Fs complaint. If Alphera cant, or wont, provide the information 
relied on and describe  why it showed it was fair and reasonable  to lend to Mr F then I cant 
and wont reach the conclusion  that its checks before entering into this agreement were 
proportionate. Without any explanation from Alphera on this matter, I cant take it as read 
that its lending  decision was fair. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that I dont  consider the fact Mr F made the first 
few payments on the agreement on time in itself demonstrates the monthly payments were 
affordable. I say this while mindful  of the fact Mr F didnt, and perhaps wasnt able to, make  
any subsequent  payments.  Equally  the amount of existing credit commitments  showing on 
Mr Fs credit check persuade me that it wasnt reasonable to proceed without obtaining 
further income and expenditure  information  notwithstanding the £8,234.00 deposit he paid.
In these circumstances, and in the absence of anything else to indicate that Alphera took 
any further steps to ascertain Mr Fs monthly  income  or regular expenditure, Im not currently 
satisfied that the checks Alphera carried out before reaching the conclusion  the agreement 
was affordable for Mr F were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks more likely than not have shown that Mr F was 
able to sustainably  make the repayments to this agreement?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out before this agreement  was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown.  So I need  to decide whether it is more  likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told Alphera  that it was unfair  to enter  into this agreement  
with Mr F. 
Ref: DRN030716612Mr F has provided  us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
the finance. Of course, I accept different checks might show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mr F has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Alphera mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Alphera  showing  what  this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mr Fs financial circumstances  were more likely  than not to have  been  at 
the time.  To be clear,  Ive not looked  at Mr Fs bank statements because I think that Alphera 
ought to have obtained them before lending to him. Ive consulted  Mr Fs bank statements 
because they were readily available at this stage  and they contain the information I now 
need to reconstruct the proportionate check Alphera should have but failed to carry out. 
Mr Fs bank  statements show that he was in receipt  of an average  of around £1,000.00 or so 
a month. As I understand it, Mr F was in the process of leaving the company where hed 
been director and the company he was leaving was going to make  the payments  to the 
agreement as part of the terms and conditions  of his leaving.  
But even though there may have been expectation the payments to the agreement itself 
would be met by the company Mr F was leaving, at least at the time of agreement, Alphera 
would have been aware that Mr F would have  significant running costs  for this vehicle. For 
example, although  Alphera wouldnt have known exactly  how much Mr Fs insurance 
premium would be, it would have known  the insurance group of the vehicle being financed 
and that it was a condition  of the finance agreement as well as a legal requirement for Mr F 
to ensure the vehicle was insured. So I think its fair and reasonable to expect Alphera to 
have factored these  reasonably foreseeable costs in its assessment of whether Mr F could 
afford the vehicle. 
Im also mindful that there was a £92,609.70 final payment for the vehicle. I accept Mr F was 
able to hand the vehicle  back  after 36 months.  And so I wouldnt  necessarily  have expected 
Alphera to have carried out an in depth assessment of his ability  to be able to make  this 
payment. But the deposit Mr F paid and the amount of the monthly  payments  (as well as the 
source of funds),  lead me to think that Alphera  ought fairly and reasonably to have explained 
that Mr F would end up paying  a significant  sum for what was in effect a long-term rental in 
the event he wasnt  able to make  the £92,609.70 payment. Ive not seen anything to 
demonstrate that Alphera  did this here.    
In any event, Mr Fs existing commitments  to credit, bills and normal  monthly living  costs 
pretty much took up all of his monthly  income.  So its clear that he didnt  have the disposable 
income to sustainably make the repayments for the vehicle  he was sold.  
Overall and having carefully considered  everything, I think  that reasonable and proportionate  
checks would have  alerted Alphera  to the fact that Mr F wasnt  able to make the payments to 
this agreement without  experiencing  financial difficulty and/or borrowing further. And so it 
follows that he wasnt in a financial position  to meet  his obligations  as a result  of this 
agreement.     
Did Alphera act unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr F in some  other  way?
Ive also thought about Alpheras actions  once Mr F fell into arrears. From what  I can see,  
Mr Fs payments were  made in full and on time up until February 2018. Mr F missed  the 
payment due in March  2018. He also let Alphera  know that he wasnt going to make  his April 
Ref: DRN0307166132018 payment  as he didnt have the funds to and he was also unlikely to be able to make  
payments going  forward.  
In April 2018, Mr F contacted both Alphera and the dealer who sold the car to him about the 
possibility of exiting  the contract  bearing in mind he wasnt  in a position  to make the 
payments and, in his view, had never been able to make  them  in the first place.
There are various ways in which a consumer can end or exit a car finance agreement. 
Voluntary Termination  (VT) is a statutory right set out in Section 99 of the Consumer Credit  
Act 1974 (the Act) and is often additionally  a contractual term in a hire purchase 
agreement. In summary, VT allows a consumer to give the car back  at any point and have 
their liability  capped at one half of the total price  of the agreement. The consumer will then 
arrange the return of the car with the car finance  house. Alphera provided Mr F with a quote  
on 2 May 2018,  which informed  him that he could hand the car back voluntarily but he would 
have to make a termination payment  of £72,387.91.
As well as VT it is sometimes possible  for a consumer to exit a finance agreement by 
voluntarily surrendering the car. Voluntary  Surrender (VS) is a far more informal  
arrangement, which  isnt set out in the Act or any other legislation.  Put simply, it is handing 
back the car which results  in the borrower being  liable to pay the full amount outstanding  
under the loan agreement, less any early settlement interest  rebate and the net proceeds of 
the subsequent sale of the car. The benefit  to a borrower is that they usually wont  be liable 
for any enforced repossession/legal  recovery costs. 
It may also be more beneficial for a consumer to choose to voluntarily surrender a car if they 
are nearer to the beginning  of the agreement, when the car hasnt depreciated significantly, 
and they have made only a small number of payments  towards the agreement.  Mr F had had 
the car for just over 6 months when he approached Alphera and the dealer and was 
provided with an early settlement figure of £161,259.95 on 19 April 2018.  And at this stage 
he also had an offer to purchase the vehicle  for £125,000.00. This would have left him with 
an outstanding  liability of £36,259.95, which is around half of what he had to pay if hed 
taken the VT option. 
Notwithstanding the significant additional liability for doing so, Mr F chose to take the VT 
option despite telling Alphera  he didnt have the funds  to make any payments. I have 
attempted to ascertain why Mr F chose an option  which left him with a considerable amount 
more to pay, in circumstances where  he says he didnt have the funds to pay anything  at all.
Having carefully considered everything, it looks to me that Mr F was told, or at the very least  
given the impression, that taking  the VS option  would result  in him having  to settle the 
outstanding balance in one lump  sum payment, whereas any VT payment might be 
repayable over some kind of repayment  plan. In other words,  I think  Mr F was told if he 
chose the VS settlement option  he had to pay £36,259.95 in one go, and if he went for the 
VT option the £72,387.91 owing could be repaid using a repayment plan.   
Mr F had already missed  two consecutive payments. I set out in the relevant rules section of 
this provisional decision  the regulator  (in CONC 1.3G)  sets out this could be an indication a 
consumer may be experiencing financial difficulty and by this stage Mr F had also told 
Alphera that he didnt have the means  to make payments because  he hadnt  been paid. I 
cant see how or why Alphera  couldnt  have engaged in discussion about an arrangement  to 
pay any outstanding  amount,  irrespective of the mechanism Mr F eventually used to exit the 
agreement. Indeed, given  the obligations  set out in CONC for lenders to treat consumers in 
Ref: DRN030716614arrears fairly, with due consideration and forbearance  I would have expected  Alphera to 
have engaged positively with Mr F about any outstanding amount he needed to pay to meet 
any remaining obligations  as a result of this agreement. 
Even if I am wrong on this, I still have concerns over the fact that Mr F elected for the option 
that was considerably more expensive here  almost double  at a time where  hed already 
said that he was owed wages and it would  be sometime  before these would be paid to him if 
at all. As Ive said above, Mr F would have owed  only half of what he ended up owing  
Alphera if hed chosen to VS the car. This makes a huge difference  bearing in mind  the 
sums of money involved here. 
I think Alphera needed to explain to Mr F  in a clear  and unambiguous manner  that given 
his financial circumstances, it would  exercise forbearance and due consideration irrespective 
of which  option  he took to exit the agreement. This is in line with the FCAs guidance  an 
expectations regarding  Arrears, default and recovery (including repossessions)  set out in 
CONC 7 and the overarching principle for firms to pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly as set out in PRIN 2.1.1 R (6). 
Im currently  minded to conclude that Alphera didnt do this. And so Im minded to find that 
Alphera did act unfairly  or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way. 
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about  the two overarching questions, set out on page 7 of this 
provisional decision, Im intending to issue a final decision which  finds that:
Alphera didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mr F to satisfy  itself 
that he was able to make the payments to this agreement;  
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown Mr F 
was not in a financial  position  to sustainably make the repayments to this hire 
purchase agreement;
Alphera did act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way towards Mr F; 
The above  findings leave me intending to reach the overall  conclusion  that Alphera didnt  
treat Mr F fairly and reasonably when entering into and during the course of this hire-
purchase agreement.
Did Mr F lose out as a result of Alpheras shortcomings?
Ive considered whether Mr F suffered adverse consequences as a result of Alphera  unfairly  
entering into this hire purchase  agreement with him. Alphera took the car back within a few 
months of the agreement  starting. Given Mr F paid an £8,234.00 deposit  as well as some 
monthly payments  and is now left with Alphera expecting  him to pay a further approaching 
£73,000.00 for a vehicle that was taken back so quickly,  I find that did Mr F lose out because 
of what Alphera  did wrong.
So overall and having thought about  everything  provided and whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of this case,  Im intending to find that Mr F lost out because of 
Alpheras actions. And this means  Im currently minded to conclude  that Alphera needs to 
put things right.
Ref: DRN030716615Fair compensation  what  Alphera  needs  to do to put things right  for Mr F
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Alphera putting Mr F in
the position hed now be in if she hadnt been  sold the car in the first place.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr F
was given the car in question and it has since been returned to Alphera. So, in these
circumstances, I cant  undo  whats already  been  done. And its simply not possible to put
Mr F back in the position he would  be in if he hadnt  been sold the car in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances. Id like to explain the reasons why I 
think that it would be fair and reasonable for Alphera to put things right in the following way.
Our website  sets out the main  things we consider when looking  at putting things right in
cases where we conclude a lender did something wrong in irresponsible/unaffordable
lending complaints. We usually say that the borrower needs pay back  the credit amount
provided and that the lender should refund any interest, fees and charges that the borrower
paid. This is because the borrower will have had the benefit  of the credit that they were
provided with and its usually the extra paid over and above this  any interest fees and
charges  that will have  caused the consumer to lose out.
So, in this case, this would mean Mr F paying  back the £168,436.00  he was originally lent. 
But I dont think that a refund of the interest fees and charges is appropriate  here. The car 
was taken back relatively soon after the agreement started and a settlement on this basis 
would mean  Mr F paying for the full amount lent for a car he had for a few months, without 
owning the car at the end. 
Ive therefore  given careful thought  to how else it might  be fair and reasonable to put things 
right for Mr F bearing in mind he was provided with a hire-purchase  agreement  here.
In circumstances  where a borrower was provided  with finance to purchase a car they were
unable to afford to make  the payments for, its usually appropriate for the car to be returned
and the agreement ended. Ive already explained that Mr Fs car was returned to
Alphera and the agreement was ended at this point.  So clearly  there  is no need for Mr F to 
now return the car. But Alphera does  need to waive the final VT payment it says is 
outstanding. As Im saying that this is what Alphera needs to do, Im satisfied that I dont 
need to make an additional  award for its lack of forbearance when Mr F sought to exit the 
agreement.
Ive also thought about the deposit Mr F paid. Its clear that Mr F only made this payment 
because he was provided with an unaffordable hire purchase agreement. So Im satisfied 
that Mr Fs deposit of £8,234.00 should be returned to him, with interest of 8% simple  a year 
added from the date this payment was made.
Mr F did have  use of the car for a period  of time.  And I think  that its fair and reasonable for
my award to reflect this. There  isnt an exact formula for working  out fair usage.  But in
deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the
agreement, Mr Fs usage of the car and what sort of costs he might  have incurred to stay
Ref: DRN030716616mobile if he didnt  have this car. In doing so, Im mindful that although Mr F didnt drive the 
car all that much in the period he had it  the email correspondence between Mr F, Alphera 
and the dealer suggests less than 500 miles  he was nonetheless  provided  with the use of 
a brand-new luxury  vehicle. Bearing  this in mind, I think that its fair and reasonable for 
Alphera to keep all of the monthly payments it collected while  Mr F had use of the car. 
Mr Fs credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on any loans or credit they 
shouldnt have been given. Ive not seen anything here which  leads me to think such  a 
direction would be unfair here. So having  carefully  thought about everything, Im intending  to 
direct Alphera to remove any negative information  that it has recorded on Mr Fs credit file 
about this agreement. 
All of this means  that Im intending to say that it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint for Alphera to put things right in the following way:
Refund Mr Fs deposit with interest of 8% simple per year; AND
Waive any amount outstanding after the termination of the agreement;
Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  about  this agreement on Mr Fs 
credit file.
My provisional decision
Im currently  minded to uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct BMW Financial  Services (GB) 
Limited (trading as Alphera  Financial Services) to pay compensation as set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 22 January 2021 change my mind, thats 
what Ill tell Alphera  to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0307166