K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Partnership Life Assurance  Company  Limited (Partnership) hasnt allowed 
him to convert his annuity  payments into a one-off lump sum.
background
Mr M took out an annuity with Partnership  in August 2015 following advice from a financial 
intermediary. The annuity pays Mr M what he considers a relatively small amount each 
month. He would rather cash in his annuity and receive a one off lump  sum instead.
Mr M understood he had the right to request  this but Partnership  hasnt allowed him to do so. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He said Mr M had 
signed the terms and conditions at the time he took out the annuity.  They  made it very clear 
in return for a single  payment, Partnership  will pay Mr M an income for life. They also say the 
policy has no cash in value and cant be changed once the cooling off period has expired.
Mr M disagreed. He feels as his annuity is for such a small amount its unfair of Partnership 
to refuse  his request.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice. Having done so, and whilst I 
understand this will be disappointing for Mr M, Im not going to uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M has raised concerns  over the information he was given  at the time he took 
out his work based AVC, which he exchanged for this annuity, but I can only comment  on 
whether Partnership  has acted in the right way in dealing with Mr Ms request.
Annuities, once  in payment, cant usually  be cashed in. Some providers do allow small 
annuities, typically those  valued at less than £10,000, to be cashed  in. But, this is based on 
their interpretation of the rules on this matter, and importantly,  is at their discretion. It isnt 
common.
The legislation around annuities has changed over the years. I recognise the government  
considered introducing a secondary annuity market, and this was widely reported in the 
media. But, after consultation, this proposal didnt proceed,  largely  because  of concerns it 
wouldnt be in a consumers best interest  to cash in an annuity.  Theres  nothing  in the 
current legislation that requires an annuity  provider to allow  its customers  to cash  in an 
annuity in payment.
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that its unfair that some providers can offer this facility and 
others dont, but the decision to allow a customer to cash  in an annuity is a commercial  
decision Partnership is entitled to make, Mr M cant insist upon it. So, Partnership hasnt 
done anything  wrong in declining his request. 
Partnership has explained if the legislation  changes it will inform annuitants of any options 
they may be able to offer in the future. So whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing  for Mr 
M and Im not going to ask them  to do anything further.
Ref: DRN03861412my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0386141