K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 1993. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs S aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding the 
policy to her card. FICL has told us the PPI was added to Mrs Ss card during a phone  call 
several years after she took out her card. 
From the evidence provided by FICL I can see that Mrs S didnt choose to take PPI when 
she applied  for her card. I can also see that the PPI was added to her card several years 
after she applied for it. So I think its likely  that Mrs S did apply for the PPI over the phone. I 
cant know for certain what was said at the time but Mrs S applied  for the PPI sometime after 
the card itself so I think she would  have known she didnt have to take the policy  and chose 
to have it, although I can understand why she may not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included help from her husband. But while  Mrs Ss husband would have 
wanted to help his ability to would  have been dependent  on his circumstances at the time, 
which could have changed. So I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
my final decision
Ref: DRN01439412I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0143941