K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car supplied  to him by BMW Financial  Services  (GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) under a hire purchase  agreement  was not of satisfactory quality. 
background
Mr C acquired  a brand new car in May 2018. In July 2018 he expressed  concerns to the 
dealership that after washing the car, the paintwork didnt  look right and he could see swirls 
and grease marks in it. 
Mr C says that the dealership attempted to make  things better, including by polishing  the car, 
but he says as soon as he washed the car again the marks became a lot more visible. 
Mr C also says he would intermittently lose reception on the DAB radio in the car.
Mr C made  BMWFS aware  of the problem with the paintwork in August 2018  and explained 
that he wanted to reject  the car. 
BMWFS told Mr C that it wouldnt accept his rejection because a regional technical manager 
had inspected the car and decided the paintwork was acceptable. 
Our investigator said Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She said it was apparent the car 
was not of the standard a reasonable person would expect for a brand  new car given the 
issues with the paintwork.  She asked BMWFS to cancel the agreement, take back  the car, 
refund Mr Cs deposit and all of his monthly  payments and pay him £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
BMWFS hasnt responded to the investigators assessment so the complaint has been 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS supplied Mr C with the car under the finance agreement it had with him. Under 
relevant legislation, namely the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA), there was an implied  
term that the car was of satisfactory quality. Whats satisfactory is measured by what  a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, the price  and other relevant circumstances. 
The car BMWFS  supplied  to Mr C was brand new and it cost over £35,000. The CRA says 
that things like appearance and finish and freedom from minor defects are in appropriate 
cases aspects of the quality of goods. I think a reasonable person would expect a brand new 
car costing  upwards of £35,000  to be free from minor defects and for the paintwork finish  to 
be of a high quality. 
BMWFS didnt clarify its position on the matter to this service.  But from correspondence on 
the business file it sent us, it looks like it turned down Mr Cs request to reject the car 
because a regional technical  manager  had inspected the paintwork and decided it was 
Ref: DRN02483392acceptable. Ive been told by BMWFS that the regional technical managers report  isnt 
available. So its still not clear why BMWFS thinks the paintwork is acceptable.  
Mr C says he noticed the problems with the paintwork as soon as he washed the car for the 
first time around two weeks after acquiring it. He says he put this down to the wash being 
rushed at the time and didnt think there  was anything wrong. He says he worked away for a 
couple of weeks  before washing  the car on his return  when he noticed  the problem again.  
He says after having a friend look at the car he realised something wasnt  right and 
contacted the dealership. 
There is evidence that Mr C emailed  the dealership within about five weeks of acquiring the 
car to make it aware of the problem.  This  supports  Mr Cs timeline of events.   I also find     
Mr Cs testimony  to be credible and plausible. And from the email exchanges between Mr C 
and the dealership over the months that followed  I do get the impression that it agreed  
something wasnt right with the paintwork.  
Ive seen very recent pictures of the paintwork and there are quite heavy swirl marks evident, 
particularly around  the boot area which is where  Mr C first pointed  out the problems to the 
dealership and which the dealership says has been  perfectly captured in the photograph. I 
think on balance these  are likely  to be the same marks  Mr C was unhappy with originally 
when he emailed the dealership in July 2018.  
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect marks  such  as these to develop in the 
paintwork of a car so soon  after acquiring it. And having seen the pictures  of the marks, I 
dont agree with the reported  comments of the regional technician  that these marks are 
acceptable, especially  as I havent  been  provided with a copy of that report. Nor have I seen 
anything to lead me to think  that the marks are as a result  of anything Mr C has done,  for 
example in the way he washed  the car. Indeed, BMWFS hasnt  really  provided much for me 
to consider here to refute what  Mr C has said. 
The dealership has suggested that there  may be further damage  to the paintwork since  it 
has been left there  since October 2018,  caused  by contamination/lime from droppings,  but 
as Ive commented below I can understand Mr Cs decision to leave the car at the dealership 
when he did. 
I dont think the reasonable person would expect such  imperfections  in the paintwork of this 
brand new car, especially  given the cost of it. So I dont  think the car was of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  
From the emails Ive seen  it looks like the dealership had a couple  of attempts at rectifying 
the issue. But in any event, given the nature  of the problem, the fact the car was brand new 
and the potential effect that any rectification attempts may have on the clear  coating and 
paint, I dont think further rectification is appropriate in this case  and I can understand  why 
Mr C doesnt want to keep  the car. 
Whats more, Mr C has left the car with the dealership since  October 2018 and it seems  that 
there are also some  possible issues with the DAB radio.
So all things  considered, I think the fair thing to do in this case is to allow Mr C to reject the 
car. 
Ref: DRN02483393Mr C said he hardly used  the car once he decided he wanted to reject it in August 2018 and 
he hasnt driven it at all since it was last picked up by the dealership in October 2018. He 
said he did this because  he didnt  want  to jeopardise his ability  to reject  the car. I dont think  
this was unreasonable. The current mileage  of around 3,000 miles on the car reflects this.
I think in this case it would be fair to refund  Mr C all of the payments he made from October 
2018 onwards  seeing  as the car has been  with the dealership  since  then and hed already 
asked to reject the car before this. I think its fair that Mr C does pay something  as the 
mileage shows he has had some  use of the car. I acknowledge  that Mr C may have incurred 
some costs with an additional  car, but as I am asking BMWFS  to refund his payments under 
the agreement  from October 2018 onwards, I wont be asking it to pay those costs, as Mr C 
would have had to pay something towards  being kept mobile.  
Mr C says hes had to keep the car taxed and insured  the whole time its been  with the 
dealership. For the same  reasons Ive just given in the previous  paragraph,  I think  BMWFS  
should pay Mr C the cost of taxing and insuring the car from October 2018, plus any 
administrative fees for cancellation, less any refunds received for early cancellation.
It is apparent from the email exchanges  between Mr C, the dealership and BMWFS  that 
BMWFS has on numerous occasions failed to contact Mr C when it said it would, failed to 
respond to emails from the dealership  trying  to find out what was going on and generally 
taken longer than reasonable to do most  things it was asked to do in respect of the issues  
Mr C was having. This has no doubt  caused Mr C distress and inconvenience and I think  
BMWFS should pay him £250 compensation for this and the fact that he had to take the car 
back to the dealership on a number of occasions  to try to get the issue  resolved
Ref: DRN02483394my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Cs complaint. To 
put things right BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  must:  
end the agreement;
take the car back at no cost to Mr C;
refund  Mr Cs deposit and part exchange allowance totalling £612.81 plus interest at 
8% simple per year from the date it was paid until the date of settlement*;
refund  all payments  made by Mr C since October 2018 plus interest of 8% simple  per 
year from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement*;
pay Mr C the cost of his car insurance  from October 2018 to the date of settlement, 
plus any administrative cost for cancelling the current policy, less any refund Mr C 
receives from the insurer for early cancellation  (subject to evidence);
pay Mr C the cost of taxing his car prorated  from October 2018 to the date of 
settlement, less any refund received for early  cancellation (subject to evidence);
pay Mr C £250 for distress and inconvenience**;  and
remove any adverse information  from Mr Cs credit file.
*If BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
**BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr C accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple*;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0248339