K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 1993.  The policy  protected a mortgage that Mr and Mrs H 
were taking out with HSBC at around  that time. HSBC  dont  still have the paperwork for the 
mortgage or the PPI and so cant be sure how these sales  took place. But Mr and Mrs H say 
this was in a meeting in a bank branch.
 
The policy provided  joint cover for Mr and Mrs H for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £300 a month  towards 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim.  At the time, it cost 
£17.83 a month. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a lorry driver. Hes told us he wasnt entitled  to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  their mortgage should  he be unable to 
work. Mr H has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale.  
Mrs H was employed as a contracts  manager. She has told us she wasnt entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  their mortgage should  she be unable to 
work. Mrs H has said she suffered from back pain in 1973. 
HSBC has sent us evidence from its computer records to show  that the mortgage account  
closed in 1999. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN02830252The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1999. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN02830253Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN02830254-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Mr and Mrs H suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Theres no paperwork still available from this sale, which isnt that surprising given how long 
ago it took place. And Mr and Mrs H dont  appear  to have a particularly good recall  of what 
happened then either which, again,  isnt surprising.
In such a situation, I need to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened, based  on 
the very limited information available to me. As the PPI sale appears  to have taken place in 
a meeting, I think its most  likely  that the cover would have been discussed with 
Mr and Mrs H by the advisor they saw. And I dont think its very likely that the PPI would 
have been added by the advisor unless Mr and Mrs H had agreed  to take it.
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  
the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide advice?
Neither HSBC nor Mr and Mrs H can say whether or not this was an advised sale. But as it 
appears the sale took place in a branch meeting and to be fair to Mr and Mrs H, I think that, 
on balance, its most  likely that advice was given  during the sale.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular  
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. It seems  Mr and Mrs H cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Hs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr or Mrs H would have been caught by 
the significant exclusions and limitations  which might  have  meant the policy  did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest HSBC considered whether 
Mr or Mrs H had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded HSBC advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN02830255While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  they would not have received any sick pay 
if they were unable to work due to illness, their redundancy benefits are likely to be 
limited and they didnt  have  any savings  they could fall back  on. The policy would 
have helped Mr and Mrs H manage  the consequences if one of them was unable to 
work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, 
Mrs H has told us about backache she suffered  in 1973. But from what  I know about  
the circumstances around this, Ive no reason to think that Mrs H would have 
considered it likely that this would be a cause of her taking time of work when she 
took out the policy many tears later. And there were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. And the policy protected  the mortgage repayments  
relating to their home and the potential consequences should Mr and Mrs H be 
unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  their home.
-Mr and Mrs H say the policy wasnt suitable  for them because  they would have 
become ineligible for the cover during the mortgage term because of their age. But 
Mr H, the older  of the two, was only 53 when the policy was taken out. So it appears 
that it could have provided  cover for Mr and Mrs H for a significant period of time. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
one of them was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs H 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN02830256Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H, Im not persuaded 
HSBC can demonstrate that it did enough  to present information about  the policy it was 
recommending in a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC  
gave Mr and Mrs H all of the information  they needed about the policy to make an informed 
decision about whether to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what  extent did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs H. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs H suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out the policy,  had HSBC done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN02830257Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I cant now know whether  HSBC told them the exact premium  at 
the point Mr and Mrs H applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs H 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with HSBC at the time, or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs H would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which Mr and Mrs H had 
received treatment or advice in the 12 months  before  the policy started  and which 
recurred in the first 12 months after the policy started,  or which  were  chronic  
conditions at the time of the sale; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr or Mrs H werent permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs H be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN02830258I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr and Mrs H would have  been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  
although Mrs H had a medical condition some  20 years before the sale of this policy, I dont  
think she would have  thought it likely to have caused her to take time off after the sale.  And 
Mr H didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions. Both were also in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs H were unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
HSBC may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they didnt have  any other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should they be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if one of them  was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN02830259Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think HSBC misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1993  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs H and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC  had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN028302510and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0283025