K821x#15complaint
Miss G has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a 
store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Miss G took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in 
March 2000.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagrees and so the complaint  has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided to uphold  Miss Gs complaint  and Ill explain why.
In order to claim on the primary benefits  of the policy (accident, sickness and 
unemployment) a person had to be working  more than 16 hours per week  when they took 
out the PPI.
Miss G has told us that she was not working  at the time and that her husband was 
responsible for the repayments. FICL says that it would like to see evidence of that. 
However, Miss G has been  consistent  throughout her complaint that she wasnt  working  and 
I think it would be difficult for her to prove absolutely that she wasnt  in employment in 2000.
Looking at the copy of the application form, although  it is of poor quality, it does appear that 
the employment details  section has been  left blank. On balance, based  on the available 
evidence, I am satisfied that Miss G probably wasnt  working  at the time of the sale.  
Therefore FICL shouldnt  have sold her the policy.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss G in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss G wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN03467542If Miss G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss G wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss G wouldve owed each month without PPI  Miss G 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Miss G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Miss G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint and require Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN0346754