K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about Think Insurance Services  Limiteds (Think) actions in connection 
with a motor trade road risks policy.
background
Mr R phoned Think to see if it could find him a motor trade policy  for his part time work  
restoring and selling cars. Mr R told Think that he sold around four or five cars a year; that 
hed been in the motor  trade for around  10 to 12 years; and that he had a turnover of around  
£15,000 a year. Think sold Mr R a policy. The policy was underwritten by an insurance 
company (the insurer) which is a separate business  to Think.
Some months later, after the insurer contacted Think, it told Mr R that cars which  were  
declared off-road (known as SORN) wouldn't be covered by the policy. Mr R says that he 
spoke to the insurer who told him it would cover these cars if they had an MOT. Mr R says 
the insurer told him that in order to validate his policy he would have  to be able to provide 
evidence of selling four cars within the last six months. Mr R said that hed told Think before 
buying his policy that he only sold four cars a year so he couldn't provide that evidence.
The insurer  asked Think to send Mr R a letter telling him that the insurer  would cancel the 
policy if Mr R didn't  provide proof of trading. Mr R didn't provide proof of trading but sent 
Think an email on 24 December 2018  to say that he wanted the policy cancelled. Think  
didn't respond to that email.  It sent Mr R a letter on 8 January 2019 to say that the insurer  
had cancelled his policy from 26 December 2018.
Mr R brought his complaint about Think  to us. I issued a provisional decision on 
7 February 2020.  For ease I've copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr R has made  a number  of detailed points but in this decision I 
will focus on what I see as being  the key outstanding issues  relevant  to Thinks service.
Think is an insurance broker so it sells policies and may  while acting as the insurers  agent 
- help with their administration but the cover  is provided by the insurers which underwrite the 
policies. And as Think isnt responsible  for the cover the policy provides its also not 
responsible for the insurers actions. So I don't intend to comment  on the merits of anything  
the insurer said or did in this decision,  and that includes occasions where Think was acting 
as the insurers  agent. But in order to look into Mr Rs complaints fully we made some 
enquiries of the insurer directly. And Ive referred to what it told us when describing the 
reasons for my provisional  findings  below.
did Think  sell Mr R a policy that wasn't suitable for him?
While discussing  whether  or not the policy covered SORN cars Mr R says the insurer told 
him that if hed needed to make a claim on the policy  it would have asked him for proof of 
trading which  included that he sold at least four cars in the previous six months.  Mr R said 
that hed told Think at the outset that he only sold four or five cars a year. So he wouldn't 
ever have been able to provide the insurer proof  of selling four cars in six months. And as 
Ref: DRN02427162such the insurer wouldn't ever have paid a claim against the policy. So he believed  Think 
mis-sold the policy because he wouldnt ever have been able to make a successful claim on 
it.
The policy doesn't say how many cars its policyholders need to sell in order  to qualify  for its 
cover. We asked the insurer  directly if it had told Mr R that four car sales in six months was a 
minimum requirement to benefit from the policy. The insurer told us that its a condition  of the 
policy that policyholders must be able to supply  formal business records demonstrating  the 
operation of the motor trade  business. But that it doesn't specify an exact  number of cars 
that are required to be sold in order for cover to apply. It said that while speaking with Mr R it 
may have  given him an indicative amount - that is a guide  - of how many  cars should be 
sold, but it said that proof of trading would depend  on quality and the quantity  of the 
documents its policyholders provide.
In other  words the insurer doesn't specify that a policyholder must  sell a certain number of 
cars within a specific period in order to be able to benefit from the policy. Instead 
policyholders must be able to provide enough  evidence that theyre  operating as a motor 
trader. 
Ive listened to the initial call when Mr R contacted Think looking for a policy. I've 
summarised the information  he gave Think above,  but Ill repeat  that he said: he wanted a 
motor trade  policy  for his part-time work restoring and selling around  four cars a year;  that 
hed been in the motor  trade for over ten years; and that he had a turnover  of around 
£15,000 a year. Think then sold him his policy.
Ive seen the insurers underwriting guidance, which  sets out the cover the policy provides 
and the sorts of people who would benefit  from it. And that says its available for full and part 
time motor traders. So, given that Mr R was looking for a policy to cover his work as a part 
time motor trader and that the policy does not specify a minimum number of sales in a 
specific period I think that the policy Think sold Mr R did what  he asked for. I don't believe 
that Think  misunderstood it. And, based on the information Mr R gave Think at the outset, 
there didn't appear to be any reason that Mr R wouldn't have been able to benefit from it. It 
follows that Im satisfied that Think didn't mis-sell the policy.
Mr Rs also said that the onus shouldnt have had to rest with him to tell Think that not all of 
his cars would have  had MOTs. As our investigator explained, as he was buying a 
commercial policy, then it was Mr Rs responsibility to provide a fair presentation of the risk. 
But, as he was buying a road risks policy that means that - with the exception  of the cars 
he owned and drove personally  - the cars he was restoring in order to sell would  only 
generally be covered  by the policy while being  driven on the road. And it was a requirement  
of the policy  that cars needed  to have a valid MOT. So I don't think theyd be covered if they 
were used on the road without an MOT. So the insurer wanted to know  why cars without 
MOTs and which were  declared SORN  were  listed on the policys  cover. However, I accept 
Mr Rs point that hed told Think at the outset that the cars would spend some time under 
repair and so were  likely to be off the road.  And I don't think  that cars spending a 
considerable period of time without MOTs is something he would necessarily have realised  
that the insurer might want to know about. But I don't think  any confusion on this point 
means that the policy was mis-sold. 
For completeness Ill add that Mr R said that Think initially tried to cancel his policy  because  
he had cars declared  SORN and there then followed a dispute about whether or not his 
policy covered those cars. But Ive seen that the request for information about  the SORN  
Ref: DRN02427163cars actually  came  from the insurer initially. So Think was acting as the insurers  agent when 
asking him for information about that. And I can see that Mr R took that matter up with the 
insurer directly.  So I don't intend  to comment further  on that specific point in this provisional 
decision.
complaint handling 
Mr R says that he initially complained to Think  by phone on 4 October  2018.  Think doesn't  
have a record of a call on that date although  it did write to him that day to ask him to explain 
why hed declared cars SORN on the policy. And while its clear that Mr R believed hed 
raised a complaint on 4 October  2018, theres  no other record of that. Also,  as far as I can 
see from Thinks  notes,  Mr R didn't mention he was waiting for a response to a complaint in 
follow up phone calls.  That said I note that in a call of 26 October 2018 he said he was 
waiting for someone  to get back to him about  his SORN cars, but Thinks  notes  don't refer to 
this as a complaint. 
But Mr R sent Think an email on 24 December 2018  in which  he clearly referred to having 
made a complaint on 4 October  2018. So regardless of whether Think had classified Mr Rs 
earlier contact as a formal complaint or not it should have identified his email  as referring to 
a complaint and dealt  with it as such.  I asked Think why I couldnt  see evidence of a 
response to this email.  It told me that, given it received the email  on Christmas Eve it 
appeared it overlooked it. In other words it hadn't replied to Mr Rs complaint. That wasn't 
reasonable regardless of when it received the email. 
Also, in the same email  Mr R clearly said that he wanted to cancel the policy.  So Think  
should have passed that request  on to the insurer to cancel the policy from 
24 December 2018. But as it didn't do so, in January 2019, the insurer cancelled Mr Rs 
policy from 26 December 2018. So in order to put things  right Think should  tell the insurer  
that Mr R had asked  it to cancel his policy from 24 December 2018. That will allow the 
insurer to alter its internal  records to show that Mr R, and not the insurer cancelled the policy 
as of 24 December  2018.
Also as Think didn't appropriately respond to Mr Rs email of 24 December 2018,  I think  it 
should pay him £100 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience  as a result.
developments
Think didn't  comment on my provisional  decision. Mr R did. Amongst other  things he said 
that Think  tried several  times  to cancel his policy. He said it had a lack of knowledge of the 
policies it sells and a disregard  of the FCAs regulations. He said he complained that the 
policy was mis-sold in a phone-call of 4 October 2018. He said he sent an email of 
18 December 2018 showing  proof  of trading. But that the insurer categorically  told him that 
in order to claim on the policy he would have to show proof of selling four cars in the 
previous six months.   
Mr R added that he didn't  hear from Think again  until March  2019 when it told him that it had 
cancelled the policy from 26 December 2018  and enclosed  a cheque for £476 without 
explanation of how that amount was calculated. He said that it meant that hed been driving 
uninsured in the meantime. Mr R said that Think should have given him a full premium 
refund.
Ref: DRN02427164my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to amend 
my provisional findings.
When responding to my provisional decision Mr R also complained about our service.  But it 
doesnt fall to me to look into complaint about our service.  So I've passed Mr Rs concerns 
on to a colleague to deal with as we have a separate process for that. So I don't intend  to 
comment on those matters within this decision.
Mr Rs said that Think tried to cancel his policy as it knows that theres little chance  of 
anyone being  able to claim. But I don't think  thats correct. As I've said in my provisional 
decision the policy is suitable for someone who can demonstrate that they are working as a 
full or part time motor  trader. And if hed been  able to satisfy the insurer  that he was an 
active motor trader then Mr R could have  claimed  against the policy - had he needed to. Also 
its worth  repeating that it was the insurer and not Think that wanted to see Mr R's proof of 
trading. And as Think was acting  as the insurers agent when requesting  that information 
thats something that the insurer would retain responsibility for.
Mr Rs said that he did send the insurer proof  of trading. And I've seen thats the case. But 
the insurer wasn't satisfied with that proof. Mr Rs said that the insurer told him 
categorically  that he would have to provide evidence of selling four cars within  the last six-
months. That might have been  the case. But Think isn't responsible  for what the insurer  told 
him on the phone. And the insurers told me that the policy doesn't require a certain number 
of cars to be sold. So I wouldn't have expected Think to be aware  of a specific  number if that 
number doesn't  exist.  And as I've said above the policy  is suitable  for full and part time motor 
traders. And given that Mr R told Think he was a part time motor trader I don't think  it mis-
sold the policy.
Mr R has repeated that he initially complained on 4 October 2018. If Mr R did complain on 
that day then Think  should  have responded to that complaint within  eight weeks, as specified 
by the FCA. But as I said in my provisional decision theres no evidence,  beyond Mr Rs 
comments, that he complained on 4 October 2018.  But theres clear evidence that he sent a 
complaint on 24 December 2018  and Think should have replied to that but didn't do so. And 
thats why I awarded  Mr R £100 compensation. Mr R has described  that sum as paltry but I 
think its fair to address  the distress  and inconvenience arising because  Think didn't respond 
to Mr Rs email.  And its in line with awards I make in other  cases of similar seriousness. 
Mr Rs said that Think allowed him to drive  uninsured. But when cancelling the policy Think 
was acting as agent for the insurer. So I don't intend to comment on any complaints about 
that process in this decision as it would be the insurers responsibility.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Think  Insurance 
Services Limited to:
Ref: DRN02427165Tell the insurer that Mr R had asked it to cancel his policy from 24 December 2018. 
That will allow the insurer to alter its internal records to show  that Mr R, and not the 
insurer cancelled the policy  as of 24 December 2018.
Pay Mr R £100 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience.  It should 
pay the compensation within  28 days of us telling it that Mr R has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Think pays interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0242716