K821x#15Complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the sale, and subsequent  monitoring of, a personal pension  
scheme. Mr R says the initial advice he was given was unsuitable, as it involved him giving 
up a defined benefit pension scheme  which he now considers was valuable to him. He also 
complains about  the role of third party in the advice he was given  he says this wasnt 
explained to him. And he says ongoing  charges  taken from the personal  pension were 
undeclared and not agreed to, and that he was not given the service these charges were  
taken for. 
Background
Mr R had a long-standing relationship with an advisor at an IFA business I will call Firm B  a 
Mr G. At the start of the events subject to complaint Mr R had three existing pension  
schemes  two occupational schemes,  one defined benefit and one defined contribution and 
a personal pension. Mr R says Mr G contacted him in early 2015 and said he should  transfer  
his existing pensions  to an AXA personal  pension. He says Mr G told him this was an 
opportunity too good to miss, and that AXA was closing to new business soon  so he 
should act quickly.  Mr R says he agreed, and a meeting  was arranged, which a third party 
attended  who Mr R said, when  making  his initial complaint  to Firm B, he understood was a 
representative of AXA. Following this meeting an application for a AXA personal  pension 
was made,  and Mr Rs existing pensions were  transferred into the AXA personal pension.  
In its response to Mr Rs initial complaint, Firm B said (amongst other things) that the third 
party Mr R had referred to was a business called Stephen Foster. Firm B says it introduced 
Mr R to Stephen Foster, as Firm B did not have regulatory permission to give pension  
transfer advice.  And Stephen Foster is accordingly  responsible for the suitability of the 
transfer from Mr Rs existing  pensions  to the AXA personal pension. 
The following  is not disputed: 
Mr R initially  spoke to Mr G at Firm B about  his pension arrangements.
A meeting was arranged with Mr R which both Mr G and an advisor from 
Stephen Foster attended.
On 23 March 2015, Stephen Foster produced a suitability report, setting out its 
advice to Mr R to transfer his defined benefit scheme to the AXA personal  pension, 
and on the investment  fund the transferred cash should be invested into. 
On 30 March 2015 an application was made  to AXA for the transfer  of all three of   
Mr Rs existing pensions to a AXA personal  pension. Stephen  Foster  was recorded 
as the financial  advisor on the application form. 
Transfers into the AXA personal  pension were made on 1 May 2015 (the defined 
benefit scheme), 18 May 2015  (the personal  pension) and 17 June 2015 (the defined 
contribution scheme). The money  was all subsequently invested in the investment  
fund Stephen Foster  had recommended in its suitability  report.  
The AXA personal pension  was invested  100% in the ALI AB Global Strategy 60/40  
Fund  a fund that invested  60% in global equities and 40% in global bonds. A 
Ref: DRN08297742protect 75 option  was added. This essentially guaranteed the return  of the original 
investment amount if Mr R died before he turned  75. 
On 29 September  2015 the financial advisor on the personal  pension was changed 
from Stephen Foster to Firm B. 
Stephen Foster had no further involvement,  after the AXA personal pension  had 
been set up
On 17 December 2018, after Mr R had appointed new financial advisors, the AXA 
personal pension  was closed and the cash held in it transferred to a new personal 
pension. 
Stephen Foster has provided  us with: 
A copy of AXA personal illustration  for Mr R, dated 3 March 2015.  
A copy of a fact-find,  signed by Mr R on 19 February 2010.
A TVAS report for the defined benefit  transfer,  dated 3 March 2015.  
Copies of its Services and Costs, Data Protection Notice and Client Agreement  
documents (these are all generic documents). 
A copy of a brochure for the AXA personal  pension. 
A copy of the suitability report dated  23 March 2015.
A copy of a letter dated 29 September 2015,  confirming the transfer to Firm B. 
Mr R exchanged a number of letters with Firm B during the course  of making his initial  
complaint. His main points (insofar as they might relate to the actions of Stephen Foster), in 
summary, were: 
He was poorly advised  to make the transfer, and has been  disadvantaged  as a 
result. 
When the AXA personal pension was set up it was split into several different policies, 
which was poor practice and certainly disadvantageous to him.
The initial set up charges and commissions were excessive.
He is astonished  that a third party (i.e. Stephen Foster) received a commission.
He had no information relating to the charges/set up fees in advance  of the pension 
being set up.
Firm B responded to the complaint and also sent the details of it to Stephen Foster. Mr R 
was unhappy  with Firm Bs response  and so referred his complaint to us. On review of the 
complaint referred  to us we set up a second  complaint  against  Stephen  Foster.  I am 
considering the complaint against  Firm B alongside this one, as the events are connected.  
Ref: DRN08297743In response to the complaint Stephen Foster  said, in summary: 
It met Mr R (and Mr G) to discuss the options regarding Mr Rs defined benefit  
pension. It was asked  to attend  as Mr Rs existing adviser, Mr G, was not authorised  
to advise on defined  benefit pensions. The advice  was based on the fact find and 
figures provided by Mr G, which it reviewed to ensure were still applicable. 
Mr R was given a pack which contained a transfer analysis (the TVAS report I refer to 
above), an illustration from AXA, supporting literature from AXA, a terms of business, 
and statement of services  and costs.
Its meeting notes show that Mr Rs particular  areas of interest  were  the benefits 
payable in the event of his death,  options  for early retirement, and flexibility  of 
benefits.
The existing scheme would offer only a widows pension on Mr Rs death and nothing 
at all, should Mr Rs spouse predecease him. On the transfer to AXA personal 
pension, the whole of the fund was payable. Mr R chose to incorporate a minimum 
death benefit guarantee, to protect  the death  benefit in the event of a fall in fund 
value due to market conditions.
Options for early retirement were covered in detail. Under  the existing scheme, Mr R 
had no guarantee that this would be granted. And penalties would be applied if early  
retirement was agreed. 
At the time of the transfer, the defined benefit  scheme was established as having a 
funding status  of 88% of its liabilities  which,  while not too serious  at that point,  would 
need to be monitored.  
Under the rules  applicable to the personal pension Mr R had flexibility  to take his tax 
free lump sum in instalments and could draw  income at whatever level he wished 
and adjust that income at any time.  Mr R made it clear that this was very attractive  to 
him. 
A further  prime consideration was that transfer values were at an all time high due to 
Gilt yields being at a historically  low level. It was therefore perceived that the transfer 
value offered was particularly  attractive at that time. 
The choice of AXA was based on the specific  options available under  its plan which 
were not offered by most.  In particular, a guaranteed level of death benefit and the 
option for a secure level of income ,which Mr R chose not to take up initially. Its notes 
show that this was discussed  and it was something which  Mr R might have chosen to 
switch into at a later time but he did not want to incur the additional  cost initially.  
The AXA plan was written as several separate  contracts to provide greater flexibility.  
Although this became unnecessary after a change in legislation,  there  was absolutely 
no cost difference  for writing as several contracts rather than a single one.
The name of its business and the fees were not only clear on the documents left with 
Mr R but would also have  been clear on the disclosure documents sent to you by 
AXA. The initial  fee at 3% (which it shared with Firm B) was competitive.
Ref: DRN08297744The fact find and attitude to risk questionnaires show that Mr R had a degree of 
experience of pension fund investment from previous  contracts and that he was 
aware that funds  can fall as well as rise or not perform  as expected. The usual risk 
warnings were  incorporated in the documents Mr R received. 
The decision to transfer  was correct in that it met Mr Rs requirements,  which  the 
existing scheme did not. Mr Rs issue lies with the results his pension fund has 
subsequently achieved. That aspect is obviously between Mr R and his ongoing 
adviser.  
Our adjudicator concluded Mr R had been  given unsuitable advice by Stephen Foster. She 
said, in summary: 
It was the responsibility  of Stephen  Foster  to clearly demonstrate why it was suitable 
for Mr R to transfer  his defined benefit scheme  to a new pension.
The defined benefit scheme offered a valuable guaranteed income, payable for the 
rest of Mr Rs life. 
The regulator requires  that when considering a transfer from a defined  benefit 
scheme, a calculation must be carried out to establish the investment performance 
which would be required by the new pension in order to match the benefits available 
from the transferring  scheme. This is called the critical yield. This calculation was 
carried out, and the suitability report confirmed  that this figure was 4.4% per annum.
The published discount rates for the purposes  of the industry wide pension review 
can be used to give an indication only of what rates of growth would be considered 
reasonable at the time. Based  on a transfer date of March  2015, and a term until 
retirement of 7 years, the rate was 4.6%.
It should be noted that the critical yield return of 4.4% was required merely to match 
the benefits available from the transferring scheme. So performance  in excess of this 
rate would have  to be reasonably achievable  in order  to make a transfer  of such an 
important sum worthwhile. 
So although the critical yield required is so close to that which  could be considered  
reasonably achievable,  this could  fairly  be regarded as a high risk transaction, 
particularly when  considering the significance of the benefits being transferred in 
relation to Mr Rs overall retirement  provision.
The suitability report noted one of Mr Rs objectives as being able to access his 
benefits flexibly as the new pension freedoms  legislations were due to come into 
force in April 2015. However, Mr R already  had money purchase  benefits which  he 
could use to access flexibly, and which he could use to provide  flexible  death  
benefits. And these  were likely  to be growing as a result of him becoming a member  
of his employers  pension scheme.
Also, by transferring away from his final salary scheme without any intention of 
immediately accessing benefits,  Mr R in fact reduced the options available to him, as 
he gave up the guaranteed benefits  provided  to him by his existing scheme.  Once he 
transferred out of this scheme, it was not possible to reinstate those benefits.
Ref: DRN08297745Stephen Foster has provided  a fact find which it says in the suitability report  was 
provided to them  by Firm B. However this is dated  from 2010.  There  is no evidence 
that Stephen Foster  attempted to obtain  up to date information  about Mr R.
It is of note that the suitability report confirmed that a guaranteed income level was 
available within the AXA personal  pension, and Mr R subsequently  took advantage of 
this option following  conversations  with Firm B. So it seems evident that guarantees 
were important  to Mr R.
Mr R already had guarantees within his defined benefit scheme, and the benefit  of 
these was not sufficiently drawn  to his attention. Whilst Mr R was noted as medium  
risk, the fact that he transferred  to a plan which incorporated death and income 
benefit guarantees, indicates that remaining  in his defined benefit  scheme,  with the 
guarantees it provided, would likely  have been  more suitable for him.
Its noted that the recommended  fund had performed in excess  of 10% in the 12 
months prior to the recommendation. However  there  was no guarantee that the fund 
would continue to perform at this level.
A new adjudicator  then took over the complaint, when the previous adjudicator  left our 
service. She reviewed the file and said she was satisfied Mr R had also raised concerns 
about the transfer of his other two personal pensions. She concluded Stephen  Foster  was 
responsible for these  transfers too, and that the advice to make the transfers had been  
unsuitable. 
Stephen Foster did not accept the views.  It said, in summary: 
Mr R was clearly  made aware of Stephen Fosters status, and its involvement. 
It is inconsistent to state that a rate of less than 4.6% is considered to be viable and 
reasonably achievable,  yet to go on to say that a rate of 4.4% would  be considered to 
be high risk.
The AXA plan offered the option of switching to an income guarantee at a later date 
which Mr R declined to incorporate at inception. This is not consistent with a 
guarantee being important to him at the time of transfer. He wanted  to include a 
minimum death benefit guarantee but acknowledged  that an income  guarantee could 
become important to him in the future. 
It is not aware that Mr R has ever added an income guarantee to his plan, which  
again confirms  that this aspect  is not important to him.
The question of calculation  of redress is a particular issue  and here it dovetails with 
its issue with Firm B. Mr Rs complaint highlights the fees paid to Firm B for its 
ongoing financial advice.  This obviously has a significant impact on the current value 
of the fund and it is unreasonable  that it should  be penalised by the deduction of fees 
paid to another adviser. At the very least the fees paid to Firm B should  be taken into 
account and reclaimed from it, given that the main  aspect of Mr Rs complaint is 
effectively about the fund performance since servicing was transferred to the other  
adviser.
Of the 3% initial charge, 50%,  i.e. £5,727,  was passed to Firm B.
Ref: DRN08297746It is clear from its report that Mr R had a good  understanding of the income 
guarantee and he rejected this under the AXA personal pension  as he considered  the 
cost as high and unnecessary in the shorter term. Income guarantees were  also 
covered again  fully in the AXA literature accompanying its report. Mr R preferred to 
incorporate a death benefit  guarantee as death benefits were a priority for him and 
transferring his defined benefit scheme was part of this strategy as it also improved 
his death benefits  significantly from inception. 
The further advantage of tax free death benefits under the AXA personal pension 
compared to a taxable widows  pension  under  the defined benefit  scheme  should  
also be kept in mind. 
It cannot accept responsibility  for ongoing  investment  advice after Firm B took over 
the AXA personal pension, as it obviously had no authority to give such  advice nor 
was it remunerated to do so. 
My provisional decision
Its clear  that Mr Rs complaint encompasses many points  including  the initial  advice to 
transfer to the AXA personal  pension. So the first point for me to determine is which 
business is responsible for that initial advice.  
I think that is straightforward,  insofar  as the defined benefit scheme is concerned.  Although I 
think it was Mr G of Firm B who first suggested  taking this course of action (i.e. transferring 
the defined benefit scheme to the AXA personal pension), the evidence is clear  that Stephen 
Foster was appointed to give advice  on the transfer  from the defined  benefit scheme. And 
that it gave this advice.  
However, that is not the end of the matter  Mr R also transferred (or switched  to use the 
technically accurate  term)  his existing  personal  pension and defined contribution pension to 
the AXA personal pension. And I am satisfied,  despite there being no documentary  evidence 
on this point, that Mr R was advised to do this. That is his testimony and I think it very 
unlikely he would have  taken this course of action without being  advised to take it.  
Mr R says it was Mr G of Firm B who advised  him to switch  the existing personal  pension 
and defined contribution pension to the AXA personal pension.  Stephen  Fosters  suitability  
report makes  no mention of the existing personal  pension or defined  contribution  pension.  
The terms on which it was appointed, confirmed in the suitability report, also refer only to it 
giving advice on the defined benefit  scheme.  It is clear its advice was restricted to the 
transfer from that scheme to the AXA personal pension (and the investment to be made 
using the defined benefit transfer funds).  
Stephen Foster is however recorded  on the application form for the AXA personal pension  
and the application does  include  the existing personal pension  and defined contribution 
pension. Stephen Foster  also received commission for the switches of those two schemes.  
But that commission was shared with Firm B. 
Having carefully weighed up the available  evidence, I am satisfied Firm B gave the advice to 
Mr R to switch  from his existing personal pension and defined  contribution  pension  to the 
AXA personal pension.  So it is responsible  the initial advice, insofar  as it relates  to the 
personal pensions.  Stephen  Foster only got involved to deal with the part of the transaction  
Ref: DRN08297747which extended beyond  the scope of Firm Bs permissions. But Firm B had no reason to 
delegate to Stephen Foster for the existing personal pension  and defined  contribution  
pensions  the switches from those schemes  to the AXA personal pension  were within Firm 
Bs permissions. And, as mentioned,  Mr Rs recollection is Mr G advised him  which,  on this 
point at least, is consistent with the documentary evidence, which shows Stephen Foster 
was only appointed to deal with the transfer from the defined benefit  scheme.  
I do not think the fact Firm B did not set out advice  in writing, as it ought to have done,  
means no advice was given by it  particularly in circumstances where there is insufficient 
evidence to show Stephen Foster  gave the advice. 
Firm B took over once the transfer and switches were complete  there was no involvement 
by Stephen Foster  thereafter, and it is not disputed its only contact with Mr R was at the 
March 2015 meeting where the defined benefit transfer advice  was discussed. So I am 
satisfied Stephen Foster  is responsible only for the initial  advice to transfer  from the defined  
benefit pension.  However, in the circumstances, I think it would be fair to say it is also 
responsible for the ongoing  consequences  of that advice,  if it was unsuitable. And, like the 
adjudicators, I am satisfied the advice was unsuitable. 
In the suitability report Mr Rs aims  and objectives  were recorded as follows: 
You have  a preserved pension under the [name of former employer] Pension Scheme as a 
result of a previous  employment. You wish to review and consider the best use of this asset,  
i.e. whether to retain the benefit under that scheme or transfer them  to an alternative  
arrangement. You are aware  that the pension  freedom legislation offers  a high degree  of 
flexibility which you find attractive.
And, in the Risk  Profile section of the report,  the following  is recorded:  
When arranging a pension or transferring to a new pension  arrangement  we would normally  
complete a risk profile questionnaire in order for us as financial advisers to help assess your 
attitude to risk and to ascertain a suitable  asset allocation  that meets your specific  risk 
profile. This aspect has been discussed and, in conjunction with the information you gave to 
[Mr G], is reflected in the recommendations within this report
This risk profiling is an essential  part of the advice  process because the more accurate  your 
profile, the greater  the chance  of achieving the most suitable investment mix for your needs.
The reasons  for recommending  the transfer set out in the suitability report  were, in summary:
The benefits on death are more flexible  on transfer to a Personal Pension  and are 
immediately estimated to be very significantly greater in value than the existing 
scheme. 
Under the existing  scheme the retirement  benefits must be taken all at the same time 
and once benefits are taken they cannot be changed.  But the AXA personal  pension 
offered greater flexibility. 
The pension offered by the existing scheme  is unlikely  to provide sufficient income 
for early  retirement. Under a drawdown  plan, a higher level of income  can be drawn 
initially, even at a rate that is unsustainable in the longer term, with a view to 
reducing the drawings  to a sustainable  level once state pension  becomes payable. 
Ref: DRN08297748The ability to control income may also be advantageous if Mr R were  to experience 
health issues  he may wish to draw  a relatively high income  in the early years of 
retirement in before  his health deteriorate, or to fill an "income gap" for a period if he 
was unable to work.  
Mr Rs initial concern  was to preserve the death benefits so a death guarantee was 
incorporated in the AXA personal  pension. The provision  of an income guarantee, 
which was available  under the AXA personal pension, was strongly  recommended,  
but it as understood that due to the costs  involved Mr R would rather  consider adding  
this feature at a later date.
The following  is also said under  Charges and risk:
The price  of units is governed by the value of the underlying securities in the fund. This price 
will rise and fall with movements in the price of assets in which the fund is invested. The 
value of this investment can therefore  go down as well as up.
This is the only mention of risk in the body  of the report.
Stephen Foster says its advice was based on the fact find and figures provided by Mr G of 
Firm B, which it reviewed to ensure were still applicable. However  the available  evidence  
does not demonstrate this. 
The copy  fact-find  provided to us by Stephen Foster dates from 2010, and its clear no 
updates have been made to it. The risk attitude  assessment is also dated from 2010,  and the 
notes on the fact find say: 
[Mr R] just wants to save £150 per month and a lump sum of £2750 to start an ISA, stocks  
and shares
He is currently not making  pension contributions he has joined this employer three  months 
ago and has to wait 12 months to be eligible for occupational pension scheme
There is no reference to Mr R wanting  pension advice, to any objectives or attitude to risk he 
might have in relation  to any such advice, or any details  of his defined  benefit scheme. So 
there is no evidence  to show any assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk  insofar as his 
defined benefit  pension scheme was concerned   took place. 
So the suitability  report is silent on Mr Rs attitude  to risk and there  is no evidence to show it 
was discussed  otherwise.  And, although the suitability report  does set out Mr Rs objectives 
 albeit only at a very basic level  there  is nothing  to show  any proper assessment of Mr Rs 
aims and objectives   insofar as his defined benefit pension scheme was concerned  was 
made either. 
Ive also seen no evidence to suggest  Mr R was actively looking to do anything with his 
pension arrangements at the time of this advice. It seems it was Mr G of Firm B who 
suggested he consider a transfer to the AXA personal pension,  describing this  on Mr Rs 
recollection  as an opportunity too good to miss. So this is not a case where a consumer 
was seeking advice with set objectives  in mind. Instead it seems  reasons were sought  to 
justify the transfer  after Mr R had said he was amenable to making it. And, in addition to no 
proper assessment of Mr Rs objectives or attitude  to risk being made, I do not think  the 
Ref: DRN08297749reasons Stephen Foster set out in its suitability report were sufficient to justify  its 
recommendation that Mr R transfer his defined benefit scheme to the AXA personal  pension.  
The suitability report refers to early retirement.  But there is insufficient evidence  to show    
Mr R had any specific plans to retire  early, and that an analysis was undertaken of what his 
income needs would be should  he decide  to retire  early.  So there was no basis to say the 
defined benefit  scheme was not sufficient or that entering into a drawdown  arrangement  and 
overdrawing until the state pension was payable would  meet  Mr Rs needs. This appears to 
have been nothing more than speculation.  In any event, as Mr R had no plans to retire at the 
time of the advice,  this was not adequate  reason to transfer. Mr R could  have stayed in his 
defined benefit  scheme then considered  his options  when he had firm plans. 
The same can be said about  flexibility. As the adjudicators noted, in giving up his defined  
benefit, Mr R was actually  reducing  the options  available to him, as the option  to transfer to a 
personal pension  would  always have been available and any requirements for flexibility 
could have been considered once Mr Rs retirement plans had been firmed up, close to his 
planned retirement date.  
There is also no evidence to show death benefit  was something of concern to Mr R before 
he received advice. He was relatively young and in there is no suggestion  he was not in 
good health. Again, this is something which could have  been  reconsidered when  Mr R was 
older and closer to his retirement age. 
Also, no consideration appears  to have been given  to Mr Rs other  pension  schemes  on 
these points. His personal pension, defined contribution  scheme and the scheme  of this then 
current employer could  each have been  used  to provide flexibility, if or when it was needed.  
And each  of these  pensions had death  benefits  associated with them. Although Stephen  
Foster was only giving advice on the transfer from the defined benefit scheme, I do not think  
advice on flexibilities and death benefits  could be suitably given without consideration being 
given to the features of the other  pensions held by Mr R. 
The evidence suggests Mr R was cautious.  And I think any reasonable assessment of his 
attitude to risk, insofar as his defined benefit  pension was concerned, would have arrived at 
the same  conclusion. Mr R was around  five years from his planned retirement  date, and the 
defined benefit  pension represented the majority  of his total pension  provision. 
With that in mind  and everything else I have said above  I think  suitable advice to Mr R 
would have been that he should not transfer his defined benefit pension  to the AXA personal 
pension. 
Stephen Foster says the cash equivalent  transfer value (CETV) was high at the time, and 
this was a reason to transfer.  It may be the CETV  was high, compared to what  would have 
been offered at earlier dates (although I note Stephen Foster  has provided no evidence on 
this point).  But the transfer certainly entailed  risk  there was a real possibility Mr R might 
have been worse off. Annual growth of 4.4%  on the CETV was required to match the 
benefits payable  from the defined benefit scheme. So in excess of a reasonable rate of 
growth was required  to beat the benefits  payable from the defined benefit scheme. 
The size of the CETV was not therefore  reason in itself to transfer.  And the fact that growth 
of over 4.4%  was required to beat the benefits payable from the defined  benefit scheme 
(meaning of course that lower growth would mean less benefit than that payable from the 
Ref: DRN082977410defined benefit  scheme) means the transfer  was unsuitable,  given  Mr Rs cautious attitude  to 
risk. 
On this latter point,  it is also worth noting  that Mr Rs reaction, when the AXA personal 
pension began to fall in value, was to add, at considerable cost, a capital  guarantee. That is 
further evidence  of his caution, and I am satisfied this would have been  revealed at the time 
of advice, had Stephen  Foster undertaken a proper assessment  of Mr Rs attitude  to risk and 
objectives. 
In short,  I do not think Stephen  Foster gave suitable advice. It should have advised Mr R not 
to transfer from his defined benefit scheme. And I am satisfied the transfer would not have 
gone ahead, had Mr R been  advised against it in clear terms, following a proper assessment 
of his attitude to risk and objectives.  
Charges 
The available evidence shows Stephen Foster provided Mr R with an illustration  for the AXA 
personal pension  when giving advice on the defined benefit transfer. And the documentation  
provided by AXA to Mr R sets out charges.  So Mr R ought reasonably  to have been aware of 
the charges. 
But this point falls away in any event, as the compensation  I set out here (and in the 
complaint against  Firm B) compares the AXA personal pension  to the position Mr R would 
be in, had the switches and transfer  to the AXA personal pension not taken place,  and 
therefore accounts for the difference in the charges applicable to the AXA personal pension 
and Mr Rs previous pensions. So I do not think any further consideration needs to be given 
to the points Mr R has made  about the charges applicable to the AXA personal  pension.
The responses to my provisional  decision
Mr R said he accepted  my provisional  decision,  but wanted to provide a few points of 
clarification: 
Whilst Firm A may have produced  a suitability report it was not issued to him or 
discussed with him at any point, either  by Stephen Foster  or Firm B.
Further, he did not meet Stephen Foster until 30 March when its advisor arrived at 
his house, accompanying Mr G of Firm B. It may be that Stephen  Foster  had 
previously issued  its suitability report to Firm B, but he did not see it and it was not 
discussed with him at any time  including  at the meeting on 30 March 2015.
Stephen Foster did not discuss the options  regarding his defined benefit scheme, nor 
did it review any facts  and figures  provided  to it by Mr G of Firm B. The meeting was 
simply for the purpose  of him signing the relevant  AXA transfer forms. It was a bit late 
to present proposals. There was obviously some discussion, but this was more about 
last minute questions that cropped  up and not the suitability of what  was happening  
at that time.
Stephen Foster did not provide  him with an illustration of the AXA personal pension  
nor did it set out its charges. He was obviously aware there  would be charges but not 
at the high level they subsequently turned out to be. He expected  them to be in line 
with what I had been charged  previously by Firm B. The first he knew of the actual  
Ref: DRN082977411charges/commissions/fees was when he received the documentation from AXA 
which was several months  later as it was twice sent to the wrong  address.
Stephen Foster also did not issue to him, at any time, a TVAS  report,  its terms of 
business, or a statement of services and costs. He did receive  general  AXA literature 
from Mr G of Firm B, at an earlier meeting.
He also said he would  incur charges/fees  of 1% and 0.5% on any funds paid in to his current  
pension, and wanted to know how the compensation I was minded to award would take 
account of this. 
Stephen Foster made the following points, in summary: 
I accept that the proportion  of the current fund value which relates  to the defined  
benefit transfer is the starting point for the redress  calculation, however this value is 
affected by the fees taken from the fund for ongoing advice  provided  by Firm B. 
When Mr R appointed  Firm B, his fee agreement with me terminated and he entered  
into a new fee agreement with Firm B which stated that the fees payable  to Firm B 
would be deducted from his pension fund each month. Obviously the current fund 
value is affected  by the deductions relating theses fees. If the ombudsmans  decision 
relating to Firm B incorporates redress in respect of those ongoing fees then that 
should be taken  into account in the redress calculation here otherwise Mr Rs 
compensation in this respect would be duplicated.
Its letter to Mr R (it refers to this letter being dated  28 February 2010, which I assume 
is an error, and it means to refer to its suitability report) it says The advice was 
based on the fact find and figures provided by [Firm B] and which we reviewed to 
ensure were still applicable . It was not aware that this has been  disputed,  so it is 
inaccurate to suggest that the advice  was based on outdated information.
Page  3 of the suitability report clearly states that If you feel that the advice is based 
on any misunderstanding, you should notify me so that I may revise  my advice as 
soon as possible.  It had no such notification from Mr R so it is reasonable to assume 
that the information was correct and accurate. 
Page  6 of the report says  While you would consider the benefits of guarantees, you 
are of the opinion  that you do not intend  to retire in the shorter term and feel that the 
timescale will allow you to absorb market volatility  perhaps with a view to obtaining 
a guarantee at a later date. This confirms  that guarantees  were  discussed with Mr R 
and that he actually rejected such guarantees. This is not consistent  with a finding  
that guarantees were important to him.
It is consistent throughout the documentation  that that Mr R was anxious to maximise  
the death benefits from his pension and it is clear that the transfer  achieved  this and 
provided a guarantee on this aspect.
Transfer value calculations are significantly  dependent  on gilt yields. Gilt yields had 
steadily fallen from 8.779% in Jan 1995  to 0.9699%  in Jan 2015, an all time low at 
that point. It was reasonable to assume that at such a low level there  was little 
capacity for further falls and that at some point yields would increase. This would 
affect the calculation of transfer values hence the suggestion that if a transfer  were  to 
Ref: DRN082977412take place, there was a significant  likelihood that a transfer value in the future  may 
well be less than that offered  in 2015.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as I set out in my provisional  findings,  quoted above  for the same reasons. To 
confirm, those provisional findings form part of this final decision. 
I note Stephen Fosters  points about the fact-find. But, based on the evidence I have seen, 
there was no reasonable basis on which Stephen Foster could have concluded the fact-find 
was up to date or relevant. And I have still seen no evidence to suggest Stephen Foster took 
steps otherwise  to ascertain Mr Rs aims and objectives for his pension or his full financial 
circumstances at the time. So I remain of the view Stephen Foster was not in a position  to 
give suitable advice.  
I acknowledge guarantees are mentioned  in Stephen Fosters suitability report. But I do not 
think the fact Mr R did not take the guarantee at the outset means he was not a cautious 
investor. The evidence  all points to that being the case  and I think  Stephen Foster would 
have been aware  of this, had it undertaken sufficient fact-finding  at the time of the advice. 
For completion I confirm that, for the reasons  given  in my provisional  decision:
I remain satisfied Stephen Foster gave  advice to transfer Mr Rs defined benefit  
pension to the AXA personal  pension.
I remain of the view that its advice was unsuitable. 
I remain satisfied that if Stephen Foster had given suitable advice Mr R would have  
stayed in his existing scheme.
I note Mr Rs points, and accept he may not have seen all the documents I referred  to in my 
provisional decision. However this does not, ultimately, impact my overall findings. My 
finding is that Mr R was given unsuitable  advice  whether or not he saw Stephen  Fosters  
suitability report. And, insofar as the report and illustration are relevant  to Mr Rs complaint 
about not being aware of fees, this is not something  I need  to consider. This point falls away, 
given my view (set out again below) that it is fair to ask James  Gregory to effectively  put Mr 
R in the position he would  be had he not transferred out of his defined benefit  pension (and 
therefore not paid the fees associated with the AXA personal pension). 
Fair compensation 
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
I accept advice fees were  paid out of the AXA personal pension  to Firm B. But, as noted 
above, I think it would be fair to say Stephen Foster is responsible for the ongoing  
consequences of that advice. I say this because although Firm B took over as advisor to the 
personal pension,    Mr R would not be in the position he is now,  had it not been  for Stephen  
Ref: DRN082977413Fosters unsuitable  advice. I consider he would have remained in the defined benefit 
scheme, had he been given  suitable  advice, and would not therefore have had to pay these 
advice fees. 
Ultimately, I need to decide what I think is a fair way of dividing up the responsibility for the 
consequences of the unsuitable advice Mr R was given. Having carefully considered  this I 
am satisfied  what I have set out here and in the decision  against  Firm B achieves that. And I 
am also satisfied it doesnt result  in any duplication  Mr R will not benefit  from a double 
recovery. In the complaint  against Firm B I have set out why I think  it gave Mr R unsuitable 
advice to switch  from the existing  personal  pension and defined contribution pension and 
why it is fair, ultimately, to hold it responsible for any loss arising from that transfer  to date. 
The losses  arising  from the defined benefit transfer advice are therefore dealt with here,  and 
those arising from the existing personal  pension and defined contribution pension switch  
advice are dealt with in the decision against Firm B. 
Stephen Foster must therefore  undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance  for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit 
pension transfers.  
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance  of the decision.
Stephen Foster may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP)  to obtain  
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr R within  90 days  of the date 
Stephen Foster receives notification of his acceptance of my decision. Further  interest  must 
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  Stephen 
Foster to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
Ref: DRN082977414period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Finally, I think  it is fair to ask Stephen  Foster  to pay Mr R £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr R by its unsuitable  advice. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Stephen Foster should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2021.
John Pattinson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0829774