K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) stopped paying 
the benefit after Mr F had made a claim under his group  income protection  insurance policy.
background
In 2015 Mr F made a successful claim on an income  protection  policy (the policy) he has 
through his employer and underwritten by L&G. After the deferred period L&G began to pay 
Mr F a proportion  of his monthly  salary each month - in accordance  with the terms of the policy  
(the monthly benefit). Thats because L&G was satisfied that Mr F was incapacitated.  
Subject to the other  terms of the policy, a member  is incapacitated if, because  of illness,  hes 
prevented from performing the essential  duties of his occupation immediately before the start 
of the deferred  period. 
By mid-2017 Mr F had been receiving  a monthly  benefit under the policy  for 24 months. 
At that stage, under the policy, the definition of incapacitated changes to a member being
unable to undertake any occupation  appropriate  to his experience, training or education (a 
suited occupation).
In or around April 2018 L&G took the decision  that Mr F was well enough to undertake a 
suited occupation.  So it stopped paying Mr F the monthly benefit with effect  of 1 June 2018. 
Mr F disagreed and appealed that decision. He provided a note from his GPs practice and 
an updated occupational health  report.  But L&G didnt reinstate  cover.  
He complained to us and our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint. Our investigator said 
there was evidence to suggest Mr F had transferable skills that he could use in a different 
job and he had been enrolled  on  and had been attending  a three  year university  course 
to obtain a degree. But he placed more  weight on an occupational health  report dated 
June 2018 which concluded that Mr F was unfit to return to his normal  contracted occupation 
or any suitable alternative. 
L&G disagreed with the investigators conclusions. Mr Fs complaint was then passed to me 
to look at everything afresh. I issued a provisional  decision  dated 11 April 2019. I set out my 
reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Fs complaint. I invited both parties to provide  
their comments - or any further evidence  for me to consider, in response. L&G didnt reply. 
Mr F replied saying  he was disappointed and that although he did volunteer to undertake 
certain roles, he purposely took roles which enabled him to work from home. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Before  I 
explain why, I want to assure Mr F that I dont doubt  he has been  through a very difficult 
time, and my decision  is in no way intended to be dismissive of the issues  hes had with his 
health. But for the reasons below,  I dont think L&G has unfairly stopped  paying  his claim.
Ref: DRN09447202Im not a medical  expert.  So, Ive relied on the evidence  available  to me when  considering 
whether L&Gs decision to stop paying the benefit to Mr F under the policy  with effect  of 
June 2018  on the basis that he was able to perform a suited occupation - was fair and 
reasonable. And I think it was. Thats because:
A medical rehabilitation report dated October 2017 confirms that Mr Fs employer  was 
unable to accommodate the adjustments he needed, and so in their opinion,    Mr F 
wasnt able to return to work  in the office based  role he was at that time employed  to do. 
However it reported that Mr F had started a psychology  university degree course, and 
this included  attending three  to four, one hour,  lectures  each week and included some  
distance learning from home. 
The same report also said Mr F was fit to undertake suitable alternative work if certain 
adjustments were  in place such as working evening shifts, Mr F was able to control the 
temperature of the environment he worked  in and had use of his own office (rather than 
working in an open-plan area)  or was able to work from home. 
Mr Fs GP reports in early  2018  that Mr F was fit to perform  a home based role in 
customer services. 
A transferable skills assessment which was undertaken for Mr F by an organisation 
which specialises in doing  such  assessments  in December 2017. Its reported  that   Mr 
F wasnt actively job seeking and but hoped  to work  as a counsellor once his degree  
course finished in 2020. The report identified a number  of transferrable skills that Mr F 
possessed.
The reports of the subsequent vocational rehabilitation sessions in February and March 
2018 show  that Mr F was interested  in the telemarketing  and customer services roles 
that had been  discussed,  that he did have the necessary skills and experience  to do 
those roles  and some  of these roles were home based.  But Mr F said he didnt have 
time to search  for a new job at that time because he was focusing  on his degree.  These 
reports also show that in early 2018 Mr F was about to start a paid role as a student 
researcher for 15 hours per month, for four months (which was subsequently put on hold 
by the university)  and hed applied for two voluntary counselling  positions.   
When deciding this complaint Ive taken  into account  that a different GP has said in 
June 2018  so after the decision was taken by L&G to stop paying  his benefit - that Mr Fs 
medical condition  was still causing him a significant  problem  and he needed regular 
medication. And that he would support a review  of the decision that he be returned to 
normal duties, as in my opinion, he is not currently fit for this
I accept that Mr Fs illness mightve  prevented him from being able to do the normal  duties of 
the job he was performing  before  the start of the deferred period. But that doesnt mean he 
wasnt able to perform a suited occupation  especially one that involved working from home 
which had been  previously suggested  by the rehabilitation  team and a different GP. Mr F 
confirms in response to my provisional  decision that he purposely sought out roles he was 
able to do from home (albeit on a volunteer  basis).  And from the rehabilitation assessments 
which were carried out it looks like there were paid jobs available which  wouldve enabled 
Mr F to work from home and these were roles  that he had the necessary skills to perform.  
Ref: DRN09447203Ive also seen an occupational report dated 19 June 2018 which  concludes:  at present 
(Mr F) is unfit to return to his normal contracted occupation  or any suitable alternative
Mr F being unable to undertake a suitable  alternative role contradicts the GP advice in early 
2018. Its also inconsistent with Mr F doing two voluntary positions and that he was about  to 
start a paid researcher role in February 2018  which was subsequently  put on hold. Whilst 
the report goes  into a lot of detail about Mr Fs medical condition and what he has trouble 
doing, theres no mention of Mr F doing  a university  degree, voluntary work or any of the 
vocational assessments that were carried out. So I dont know whether the occupational 
health doctor who met with Mr F and produced that report was made  aware of those things. 
For all these reasons, Ive placed  less weight of the conclusions  of this report. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0944720