K822xcomplaint
Mr A is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid his flood claim and voided 
(cancelled from the start) his commercial  property insurance policy  for misrepresentation  
(not providing required details).
background 
Mr A lives abroad and in this country  Mr B has a lasting power of attorney (LPA)  to deal with 
Mr As insurance arrangements for his commercial and private rental properties. Mr B deals 
with this through an insurance broker (C).
Several years after the LPA had been  set up Mr B received a conviction and was disqualified 
from holding certain  professional positions. Later the same  year C sent out a market 
presentation of Mr As properties noting  this was care of Mr B and noting Mr Bs address.
An insurance services  business  (F) offered a quotation for all of the properties  on behalf  of 
AXA. Roughly a year later the properties  were damaged during flooding. When the claim 
was being reviewed AXA found  out about  Mr B acting with an LPA for Mr A and about  Mr Bs 
conviction. AXA voided the policy and said Mr Bs conviction shouldve been  disclosed to it 
when the policy was set up. Due to the voidance AXA also declined to deal with the flood  
claim.
AXA referred to the Marine Insurance Act 1906 and said it could void the policy as a 
material circumstance hadnt  been  disclosed. It said that C was aware of the conviction  and 
both it and Mr B had a separate  duty to disclose the conviction details. AXA said it wouldnt 
have offered a policy had it known about Mr Bs conviction and as it had voided the policy it 
also returned the premiums. Mr A didnt accept this and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mr A didnt have  any convictions. She said 
Mr B wasnt  the proposer, and wasnt a director or a partner in the business that owned the 
properties being insured.  She said there was nothing to suggest in either the market 
presentation (details about the properties to be insured, amounts required and details of the 
risk) or the material facts declaration that Mr B had to disclose such information  about 
himself. She concluded only Mr A had an insurable interest  and despite  Mr B buying  the 
insurance for Mr A it didnt change the risk associated with the properties. Our investigator 
said AXA should  remove the voidance, reinstate the policy, amend any internal or external 
insurance database records and reconsider the claim.
AXA didnt accept  this and asked for the complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my provisional findings
In my recent provisional decision I said:
In relation to whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: the relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Marine Insurance Act 1906
Ref: DRN05214542AXA state that the complaint should be considered in line with the Marine  Insurance  Act 
1906 (the Act). Based on the relevant dates and details in this complaint I agree this is the 
relevant law to consider.  
Under the Act Mr A had a duty to disclose  every material circumstance  (fact) that he knows 
about or that he ought to have known about  that a prudent insurer would consider material.
Both parties  have made submissions about how they think  the Act applies in Mr As 
complaint.
Mr As solicitors  (S) say that:
Mr A was unaware of Mr Bs convictions and this hasnt been challenged. C prepared  the 
market presentation  but F and AXA were  content to adopt  and rely upon it. They  didnt ask 
for any further questions  to be answered or additional proposal documents  be completed. 
This market presentation asked about  any criminal  convictions of the "proposer". And the 
person who proposed to be the assured was Mr A. Mr A had no convictions.  
AXA is trying  to say this ordinary word  in common usage within insurance proposer should 
have been understood  and applied to a wider unconventional meaning. AXA is saying Mr A 
has misrepresented  because C failed to apply  the wider, unconventional  meaning.  S 
contends that cannot be right.  If F or AXA wanted  information about anyone other than the 
proposer (or directors or partners of the proposer) who might have dealings or 
responsibilities for the risk it was open to them both to ask for suitable information or 
questions. 
The same should  be said for the declaration which was a part of the policy  schedule.  This 
also mentioned  directors  or partners  of the assured, but Mr B was neither. In terms of 
principals the dictionary suggests this is a sole trader  or the party  on whose  behalf  an 
agent acts. So again this is Mr A and theres no justification to extend  this to cover  Mr B.
In reference to section 18(1)  of the 1906 Act S said the questions  put (or adopted) by an 
insurer in proposals  and declarations may limit the duty of disclosure if the insurer frames 
questions in a specific way. It can be assumed that it thereby waives the right to be informed 
about other matters  that might otherwise be considered material.  AXA acknowledged this 
and by framing or adopting questions that specifically refer to the proposer, principal 
directors or partners AXA in effect waived rights to information about anyone  else.
However, AXA say that there was a material non-disclosure by Mr A. AXAs solicitors said 
that:
It considers Mr Bs conviction from two months prior to policy  inception  to be a material 
circumstance that shouldve been  disclosed to F and/or AXA.  All insurers would wish to 
know in order to consider  the risk. AXA said C was your clients  agent and your client is 
fixed with any non-disclosure on Cs part. AXA refer to section 19 of the Act and state a 
policy shall be avoided in the event of non-disclosure by a broker. As far as AXA and its 
solicitors are concerned  this is a matter for Mr A and C. The result of the non-disclosure 
meaning the policy has been  voided.  It said C did disclose the details to other insurers in 
relation to other policies. It concluded that ACA and F recognised  that Mr A himself didnt 
personally withhold information.
Ref: DRN05214543Neither F nor AXA wouldve offered the policy  on any terms if the details  had been  disclosed.  
It said due to these  factors AXA can void the policy.
I also note that when submitting its complaint file to us, AXA also provided  us with a legal 
opinion from Fs solicitors. That opinion stated: it appears unlikely there has been a 
misrepresentation. The same evidence goes on to say we think  it will ultimately  prove 
difficult to seek to make out and action a potential non-disclosure and / or misrepresentation 
on the basis of the answers given to these  questions in these documents. That is to say, we 
do not consider  that Mr B in his capacity as having a power  of attorney can be said to fall 
within any of the relevant  entities to which the questions are addressed, i.e. proposer;  
director, partner or principal.
The same evidence goes  on to say It seems to us there is an issue  as to whether there has 
even been an actionable non-disclosure,  before we can even begin to consider materiality  
and inducement aspects in conjunction  with underwriters.
I note, of course, that this legal advice is from Fs solicitors  and AXA has told us its own 
submissions in this complaint were based  on later legal advice it received from its own 
solicitors. As I have outlined above, AXAs submissions on the law differ  to the position 
advised by Fs solicitors.  In considering  the relevant law in this case   I have thought 
carefully about all the different evidence and submissions made in connection with it.
Having done so, I dont consider that there  was a material non-disclosure in this case.  F and 
AXA were  free to dismiss the information, ask their own questions or request other  details. 
They didnt, which to me says the market presentation and the declaration  were  accepted  
and therefore  adopted by both F and AXA. In fact AXA says itself that AXA accepts that 
Mr Bs previous conviction is not directly  related  to the properties  so I dont accept its a 
material circumstance or that a misrepresentation has occurred.
The details provided were about  the proposer.  The proposer was Mr A and theres no 
misrepresentation in relation to him and the properties that make up the risk to be insured. 
Mr A wasnt  aware of Mr Bs conviction  so he cant disclose something he doesnt know, so it 
cant be a non-disclosure.  The Act requires the disclosure of material  facts/circumstances.  
But Mr Bs conviction  isnt a material fact or circumstance as it doesnt relate to the risk being 
proposed. It cant be a misrepresentation/non-disclosure  in that case.  On this basis I dont  
accept AXAs point  that a material circumstance  wasnt disclosed. As Fs solicitors  have  
suggested it appears unlikely there  has been a misrepresentation. 
AXA also suggested  that Mr A and Mr B need  to be considered sophisticated  commercial  
consumers and not treated the same as an ordinary consumer due to their professional  
business and commercial knowledge.  AXA said that this means Mr A and Mr B need to be 
held to a higher standard when considering misrepresentation and non-disclosure.  Mr A is 
indeed a businessman  and has been for many years. But he doesnt have an industry level 
knowledge of insurance so I am satisfied that he ought to be considered as an ordinary 
consumer. So I dont  think Mr A is sophisticated  in the insurance sense of the word. Beyond 
that hes given  Mr B permission to put his business  to the insurance market. Mr B then put 
the details into the expert  hands of C and C in turn used F. 
underwriting criteria
Ive not seen anything from F or AXA that clearly shows by way of an underwriting guide that 
AXA wouldnt have covered this policy had it known  about Mr Bs conviction.  Since  the claim 
Ref: DRN05214544C has again produced a market presentation for other insurers,  including all of the details, 
and has been  offered  terms  in the market.  So now despite Mr Bs conviction  and following  a 
significant claim being added to the market presentation  other underwriters are willing to 
offer cover. I think this undermines AXA saying, after the event, that it wouldnt have offered 
cover. Although  I accept all businesses underwrite differently its clear that following such a 
large claim its more likely that the market willing to offer cover would be limited.  But there 
are still plenty of options available.  Prior to the claim that market  may well have been wider. 
Yet AXA and F expect  me to accept that had they known about  Mr Bs conviction  they never 
wouldve offered  cover  at all in the first place. I think  its hard to accept that F and AXA can 
fairly say on the one hand there was no interest in Mr B, but on the other hand, say it needed  
his personal details and no cover  wouldve  been  given. I dont think  that argument follows at 
all. Based on the market offering quotes  now (even after a claim) theres  nothing  to show  
AXA wouldnt have offered cover if Mr Bs details had been  known. Linked to that I dont 
think AXA has shown it was induced into offering a policy. It hasnt produced  anything  to 
show this.
As I have set out, I dont agree with AXAs submissions on the relevant law. However,  even 
if AXAs interpretation of the law was correct in this case  and I was to accept  that there 
was a material non-disclosure under the Act  I am not bound  to follow the strict legal 
position. It is open to me to depart from the law, if I consider it fair and reasonable to do so.
In this case it is accepted  that Mr A didnt know about Mr Bs conviction. Its is also clear that 
F and AXA were aware that the policy  was being dealt with via Mr B. No queries were 
raised, no further details  were requested.  In fact C was complimented for the full 
presentation it put before F. Because the presentation  was so detailed  no further work, such 
as a survey of the properties, was required. From a fair and reasonable point of view I cant 
see how AXA can decide not to take any further  action in relation to the risks its being 
presented at the time only to state  later that it needed to know  more  about Mr B. It was 
aware Mr B was involved yet in chose to accept and adopt what it had been  provided with. 
No aspect of the risk fundamentally changed due to Mr B acting on behalf  of Mr A. The 
properties were exactly  as they always  were  whether Mr B acted on behalf  of Mr A or not. 
His conviction has no relation to the risk to the properties and the subsequent claim that 
occurred. I dont think its fair or reasonable for AXA to void the policy  on this basis. 
market presentation
Under the heading client details and general  information of Cs market presentation it says:
Select any of the following that apply to any proposer, director or partner of the Trade or 
Business or its Subsidiary Companies  if they have  ever, either  personally  or in any business 
capacity:
Had any convictions or criminal offences which are not spent under the Rehabilitation of 
Offenders Act or has any prosecutions pending.
This is the central  part of the argument  in this case. AXA say this point extended to Mr B. 
Mr A and C said Mr B isnt the insured, isnt proposing to be insured, and has no insurable 
interest in the properties. I agree. The question doesnt stretch to asking about Mr B so there  
cant have been  a non-disclosure.
Ref: DRN05214545AXA is adamant that if Mr B had disclosed his conviction it wouldnt have offered any policy  
terms. AXA also say the question above was Cs and not put forward by F or AXA. It goes on 
to say the market  presentation from C was based  on details C chose to present. I dont think  
thats in dispute. S acting for Mr A said in relation to the market  presentation that F and AXA 
were content  to adopt it and rely upon  it. I agree. I dont think  AXAs  point here carries any 
weight.
The statement  from Fs underwriter when  considering the properties for an AXA policy said I 
do note that the market  presentation included the address  for Mr A as "C/o Mr B". I do not 
recall giving this much  consideration at the time. I would have assumed that, as Mr A owned 
a number of properties, Mr B was acting in an administrative function for Mr A, essentially a 
post-box for issues relating to the properties, including  insurance. None of this evidence 
gives me any indication  that AXA or F had any concerns  about  the risk, Mr B, or the way it 
was presented. Also F is saying what Mr A and Mr B have maintained  all along in terms of 
their business relationship  and Mr Bs lack of direct connection to the properties and the 
policy. I cant see how F or AXA can now leap from the points made here to state that if 
details had been provided no cover  wouldve been  offered. Mr B was acting in an 
administrative function. It isnt fair or reasonable to now state that despite  acting  as 
administrator to Mr A that Mr B somehow changed  the risk. Fs underwriter made certain  
realistic assumptions that he chose  not to challenge  because, in my opinion,  they werent  
important to the risk.
In Fs correspondence with C it said the usual requirement to arrange a survey  wasnt  going 
to be necessary in this case. It said, it wasnt needed and should be removed because from 
review we feel you have  provided such detail that we feel a survey  would  not further benefit 
us from an underwriting  perspective. I think this points out how the market  presentation had 
been perceived by F and AXA. It indicates  that everything it needed to properly assess  the 
risk had been provided. This was the accepted position even though AXA and F knew  Mr A 
was using a third party.
F and AXA didnt  question Mr Bs involvement  during the setup of the policy. Indeed in a 
statement from Mr H (on behalf  of F) he said if C had informed him about  Mr B having  an 
LPA but didnt disclose  his conviction I doubt I would have pressed the matter, since I would 
assume that C would  give the appropriate  information.  Although thats very clear and honest 
I also think its important. Basically  F and AXA are leaving it down to C to decide in its 
professional capacity as a broker  what it should  tell F and AXA about. I dont think that ties in 
with AXA now saying  it wouldnt  have offered any cover whatsoever.  I think  if AXA or F felt 
so strongly about  such situations it wouldve asked for more  information at the point when 
the policy started.  The statement above doesnt  give any indication  of any concern about 
Mr B or his involvement. So again  despite  knowledge of Mr B and his involvement the 
market presentation  put forward was accepted with no further requirements.
Ref: DRN05214546Cs position
C said Mr A didnt have any convictions of his own and he didnt  know about Mr Bs 
conviction either. It is clear that C put together the market presentation in respect  of details 
about Mr A as he was the proposer  and the owner.  C said in evidence Mr A was the 
proposer as it was Mr A that was proposing to enter into a contract of insurance. C said 
Mr B isnt the proposer, a partner or a director so it never put forward  any details about him 
as it wasnt relevant or necessary.  Based  upon  the details above from F I dont think it or 
AXA were  interested  in getting any details about  Mr B for the purpose  of insuring these 
properties.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr B is representing Mr A in terms of having the LPA 
and that this allows him to get involved in the insurance arrangements for Mr A. But I think  
its a big leap to then suggest  that in some  way the insurance risk has fundamentally 
changed. Nothing about the properties  has changed  - the risk appears to be the same.  It 
seems accepted that Mr B doesnt own the properties and hes clear that everything he does 
is under  instruction from Mr A. Only Mr A can benefit from any claim under the policy. Mr B 
only made the arrangements, has no insurable interest in the property and has nothing to 
gain from the properties.
The details say that Mr B gets paid for making the insurance arrangements  based  upon 
instructions given to him by Mr A. Mr B said he was acting in the same way as he would for 
any other client. Here Mr B is acting on behalf  of Mr A and nothing more. 
claim
AXA do have concerns about  the claim. It was those concerns  that led to further 
investigation and uncovered the details of Mr Bs conviction. So I make no finding on the 
claim other than it needs to be reconsidered.
summary
Having considered the relevant law in light of the facts of this case  - I am not satisfied that a 
material non-disclosure/misrepresentation occurred in this case.  I dont think Mr Bs 
conviction is a material fact. If its not a material fact then it cant  have been non-disclosed or 
misrepresented.
And as Ive explained,  even if AXA had been able to convince me that there was a non-
disclosure it would still be open for me to consider whether  I should  depart from the legal 
position in order  to come to a decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case. F and AXA chose not to ask for more details  despite being aware of Mr Bs 
involvement. Its fair to say that the risk didnt change due to Mr B acting for Mr A as his 
conviction had nothing to do with the properties insured.
Mr A is accepted to have  known nothing of Mr Bs conviction. So I dont see that Mr A the 
policyholder couldve  done any more. I think its unfair and unreasonable for AXA to decide  
that Mr As policy should be voided in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN05214547my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S responded  on behalf of Mr A to say he accepted my provisional decision.
AXA responded to say it will reinstate the policy. It also confirmed it would make 
arrangements with Mr A regarding the relevant premiums. Finally,  it confirmed loss adjusters 
had been asked to contact Mr A to progress the claim further.
Based on these responses  I see no reason  to change  my provisional  decision and so it 
becomes my final decision.  AXA just need to ensure  that it also deals  with the voidance and 
the database records too.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
reinstate the policy and arrange  the premium payments;
remove the voidance  from Mr As policy;
update the records  on any internal and external databases correctly;
reconsider the claim based on the terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0521454