K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complained that NRAM Limited  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside three personal loans.
background
Mr and Mrs K say that from around  2001 onwards they had personal loans with NRAM. 
Alongside some of the loans, they had PPI  and Mr and Mrs K say the PPI was mis-sold.
In 2019 they complained to NRAM. 
NRAM investigated the complaint. It said Mr and Mrs K didnt have PPI alongside  two of the 
loans. But it did sell PPI alongside  a loan that started in 2004.  The cost of the policy  was 
added to the amount Mr and Mrs K borrowed, so thyed repay this amount  with interest as 
part of the loan repayments. This PPI policy ended when Mr and Mrs K refinanced the loan 
in July 2005  and some of the cost of the PPI was carried forward into this new loan. NRAM 
thought the complaint about  the sale of this PPI policy should be upheld.
But Mr and Mrs K had both entered trust deeds  in 2005. This is an informal alternative  to 
sequestration, and Mr and Mrs K conveyed their estates to a trustee for the benefit of their 
creditors generally. The trust deeds  had both concluded by early 2009.
NRAM says this meant that Mr and Mrs K didnt repay everything they owed. It says that in 
2006 it wrote  off £22,530.68. It says the total refund of the cost of the PPI, including  interest,  
would be £1,351.34. And so it said that it wouldnt pay the refund to Mr and Mrs K.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  think NRAM  could do this, and so referred  the complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator has looked at the complaint,  and thought it was fair for NRAM to take into 
account the amounts Mr and Mrs K didnt repay when it worked out compensation for mis-
selling PPI.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree. The complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My power to consider complaints comes from the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000. 
This says I will consider complaints by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In addition, I am subject  to rules made by the financial regulator,  now the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The rules  that apply to this service say that when  considering what  is fair and 
reasonable Ill take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and 
standards; codes  of practice; and (where appropriate)  what  I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
NRAM has agreed the policy was mis-sold. So Ive looked at whether its fair for NRAM to 
take into account the amounts that were unpaid following the trust deed before it pays any 
money to Mr and Mrs K directly.
Ref: DRN05474622In these circumstances, the relevant law is the law of Scotland, or Scots law. The Inner 
House of the Court of Session has recently considered what  should happen when a 
business offers to pay PPI compensation following the completion of a trust deed. In Royal  
Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56, the court said that a business couldnt deduct 
the amount that was left when the trust deed  ended from any compensation, as this debt 
ceased to exist  and so couldnt be offset  after the trust deed ended. This confirmed the 
ruling of the earlier  Sheriff Appeals  Court  in that case, which Mr and Mrs K have referred me 
to. Another relevant case is Dooneen Ltd v Mond  [2018] UKSC 54, in which the UK Supreme 
Court looked  at whether PPI compensation could be paid to a trustee following the 
successful conclusion of the trust deed. The court said that it could not  and so the PPI 
compensation was paid to the debtor.
So I recognise that Scots law may require payment of the compensation directly  to the 
consumer.
But though  I must take into account the law, I am not bound to follow  it if it wouldnt be fair to 
do so. In the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, I think what  NRAM proposes to do 
is fair. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs K entered a protected  trust deed. This means they didnt have  to repay  
everything they owed  NRAM. NRAM says it wrote off £22,530.68.  NRAM cant  now chase 
Mr and Mrs K for this money  theyve been discharged from the trust deed, so this debt 
doesnt exist.
But NRAM has now worked  out the compensation for mis-selling PPI would be £1,351.34. 
I dont think it would  be fair to make  NRAM pay Mr and Mrs K this money directly when, 
thanks to the trust deed, Mr and Mrs K didnt need to pay many thousands to NRAM.
When I recommend, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the compensation to put the consumer in the same  position theyd be in if 
they hadnt bought  the policy. Given the amounts Mr and Mrs K owed   and given that the 
PPI was only a part of what they borrowed  I think its likely theyd still have ended up 
entering a trust deed even if they hadnt bought the PPI. But theyd have owed less. And 
thats the position NRAMs offer puts them in.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think its fair for NRAM Limited to deduct the compensation for mis-
selling PPI off the amount Mr and Mrs K didnt have to repay following their trust deed. So I 
dont make a further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0547462