K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt verify that a payment made to 
his credit card was from his current account.  He says this delayed his mortgage  application 
and hes incurred costs  in making a new application.
background
When Mr K made a mortgage  application  the company asked him to confirm that a payment 
hed made  to his credit  card had come  from his current account. So Mr K contacted  Barclays 
but they said the payment  didnt  come from one of the accounts he held with them. They  
said the payment  must therefore have  come from a third party.  Mr K says this failure  to 
confirm the payment was from his current account  meant he had to make an additional 
mortgage application at additional expense.  So he wants  to be compensated for this.
Barclays once again searched the transactions Mr K had made  from his accounts but 
couldnt find reference to the payment. They  therefore suggested again that it must have 
come from another  party. They didnt think theyd  made an error.  But Mr K disagreed and he 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence and Barclays provided some new evidence that 
wouldnt have been available  at the time of the original complaint. This showed that the 
payment had been made by a third party and hadnt  been made from one of Mr Ks accounts 
afterall. 
So the investigator didnt think it would be fair to suggest Barclays  had made  a mistake as it 
was clear the payment had come  from elsewhere. And having reviewed his bank 
statements, she could see this supported Barclays position.
But Mr K disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Barclays has done  anything wrong here and whilst  I know  it will disappoint Mr K 
I wont be asking them to take any further action.  Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Barclays were  asked  to verify  that the payment made to Mr Ks credit card had come  from 
his account with them. But they couldnt find evidence of that, and having looked  through 
Mr Ks statements  neither can I.
Ref: DRN09492782If payments  are from other sources Barclays has explained that for data protection reasons 
the customer-facing staff are not able to view these  sources. I think thats reasonable and 
explains why the adviser Mr K contacted  couldnt  be clearer.  Weve subsequently been 
provided with information  to demonstrate  that the payment  did in fact come from another 
source, and not from Mr Ks Barclays account, so it wouldnt be fair to say Barclays  have 
done anything  wrong here and Im therefore not asking them  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0949278