K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Although Marks and Spencer (M&S) sold her the actual policy, we couldnt look at the 
complaint against  them  because they werent in our jurisdiction at the time of the sale.  But 
the insurers, Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have taken responsibility for the sale and so the 
complaint has been set up against them. 
background
Allianz says Mrs B completed an application  form for an M&S store card in 1997. The PPI 
was sold at the same time in connection  with this card. The policy  cost 64p per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding  balance.  It wouldve  paid 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if 
Mrs B was off work sick or lost her job. And it wouldve continued to pay while  she was off 
work until the outstanding balance (at the start of the claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B didnt agree with our adjudicator so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case. Having done  that, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because:
Im satisfied  Mrs B was eligible for the policy.
Allianz says it never made it compulsory to take PPI in order  to get credit.  And that 
taking PPI wouldnt improve a consumers chances  of obtaining credit.  It says the 
policy was optional  and Mrs B chose to take it. 
Ive looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide how the 
policy was presented. Ive seen a copy of Mrs Bs signed application form. This has a 
separate section  for PPI. The consumer is asked  to tick the box if they want  cover. I 
can see the box has been ticked to select PPI. And her name and date of birth have 
also been added in this section to confirm who Mrs B wanted to be covered by the 
policy. She then signed  the application form.
So while I appreciate Mrs B says the policy wasnt optional, based on the application  
form Ive seen, I cant fairly say that Allianz led Mrs B to believe she had to take the 
policy in order to get credit. I think its most  likely  that Mrs B had a choice about the 
PPI and that she decided to take it. 
I dont think Allianz advised  Mrs B to take the policy. So Allianz didnt need to take account 
of Mrs Bs circumstances  this was something  that she needed  to do herself.
But Allianz still had to give Mrs B information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that 
she could make a proper choice about whether or not to take the policy.  I cant  say that 
Ref: DRN00089052Mrs B was given all of the information  as she shouldve been. But I dont think  better 
information wouldve  put Mrs B off taking the policy. I say this because:
Mrs B wasnt affected by the terms in the policy which wouldve prevented  her from 
making a claim or made it more difficult for her to make a claim  for example, the 
terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions or unusual employment  situations.  
She told us she was employed  and in good health.  So if Allianz didnt mention these 
terms and conditions  properly, it didnt really matter  they werent relevant to Mrs B.
The cost of the policy was relatively  low and the amount  of benefit was relatively 
high. The policy wouldve continued to pay out if Mrs B was off work sick or lost her 
job until the outstanding balance had been  paid off. And the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to any sick and redundancy pay Mrs B mightve been entitled to from her 
employer.
As the policy was paid for on a monthly  basis, Mrs B couldve cancelled it any time 
without losing out financially.
Which means Allianz doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But Allianz 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Allianz got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Allianz didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Allianz has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B and her representative have said - including  what  her 
representative has said about there  being other court cases in relation to non-disclosure  of 
commission where consumers have received everything back. So it thinks Allianz should 
refund all of the money paid for the PPI plus interest.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Allianz has made Mrs B an offer of compensation  in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mrs Bs 
representative wants Allianz to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mrs B and her complaint  to see if theres 
anything about  her that would mean  the business  should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mrs B. But 
there isnt anything about Mrs Bs complaint or circumstances that suggest  the redress  paid 
by Allianz isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Allianzs offer is a fair way to resolve this case. So this point doesnt 
change my decision. 
Ref: DRN00089053my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Allianz  Insurance Plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Allianz Insurance Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0008905