K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declining  a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
background
Mr R took out a travel insurance policy with UKI. A trip was booked on 18 January 2018;  
however, on 1 August 2018  a claim was made to cancel the trip. This was due to Mr Rs 
mother being admitted  into hospital  on 30 July 2018  in a critical condition, she sadly passed  
away on 24 August 2018. 
The claim was processed and ultimately  declined due to UKI considering  the claim to be 
excluded from cover. This was because Mr Rs mother had received attention for the 
condition she passed away  from within 12 months  of the trip being booked, such claims are 
excluded under the policy wording. 
Mr R was unhappy with this, and also that UKI continued to ask for additional  information,  
when it could have  declined the claim sooner. The business paid Mr R £200 in recognition  
for the inconvenienced cause. As he remained unhappy with its response  he brought his 
complaint to this service  for consideration. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and thought  that UK had declined  the claim in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. They agreed inconvenience  had been  caused, but 
thought the compensation  level already offered to Mr R to be fair. Mr R did not agree, the 
matter has therefore  me passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the policy state:
What is not covered
We will not cover:
any claim that is a result of a close relative, close business  associate or travelling
companion:
having a medical  condition  that has resulted in in-patient treatment or being put on
a waiting list for hospital treatment;
being diagnosed with cancer; or
being given  a terminal prognosis;
in the 12 months  prior to you becoming  an insured person, or the date when you 
booked your trip, whichever is later
Ref: DRN04503202I have reviewed the medical certificate for Mr Rs mother. It confirms  that she received 
attention for her condition in August 2017, within  12 months of the trip being  booked.  On this 
basis I do think UKI has correctly declined the claim  in line with the policy  terms and 
conditions. 
While I appreciate Mr R could  not have foreseen the unfortunate deterioration in his mothers  
condition, the policy does not provide cover  in the circumstances of his claim.  
Ive also considered the claims handling here. And whilst I appreciate  Mr Rs point that UKI 
might have declined  his claim sooner I am reluctant  to penalise a business  for investigating a 
claim as much as possible before turning it down. If I thought UKI had really made up their 
minds before  asking  for more information with no chance of the claim ever being paid I might 
have made  a higher award, but I dont have conclusive proof of this. I think  the £200 offered 
is therefore enough.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I make  no award against 
UK Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0450320