K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Saga Services Limited provided a poor service when he tried to 
get a quote to insure a car. 
background
Mr C had a car insurance policy through a broker, Saga Services. In August 2018 he called 
Saga to get a quote for another car which he was due to collect a few days  later. 
Unfortunately Saga  gave Mr C incorrect information and told him it couldnt provide a quote.  
Mr C complained to Saga.  It failed to call him back  when promised, and he was unhappy 
with the information it gave him. Mr C said he was concerned that he might  be declined  
insurance because  hed have to declare that Saga had declined insurance for him. 
In October  2018 Saga  replied to Mr Cs complaint.  It said a windscreen claim had been  
recorded against his record twice in error.  It agreed  it had given Mr C incorrect information  
and could have  provided a quote  after all. Saga apologised  and offered Mr C £50 
compensation. Mr C declined and asked us to look at his complaint.
Our adjudicator thought overall Saga had done  enough to put things right. Without  evidence  
that Mr C had paid more for insurance elsewhere as a result of Sagas errors, she couldnt  
recommend Saga increase the compensation it offered. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said it isnt just about  the incorrect information it gave him. He said he 
had to wait seven weeks for Saga  to provide the requested information. 
So Mr C would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Saga  made mistakes when Mr C called to get a quote.  He was an existing customer. 
It should have  held the correct claims history for Mr C and it says it could have provided him 
with a quote after all. 
Saga had eight  weeks  to reply to Mr Cs complaint in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys timescales. So I cant say that the seven weeks Saga took to reply to Mr Cs 
complaint was an unreasonable delay. 
When things go wrong,  we look at the impact any error had on a customer. We look at each 
case on its own merits and consider any evidence of financial loss. 
I think Mr C was inconvenienced and understandably frustrated  following  his call with Saga 
in August 2018. And I can see that he contacted  Saga  a number of times after that awaiting 
a reply. 
Ref: DRN03421412I havent seen  anything to show that Mr C was prevented from buying a policy elsewhere. 
And while I think this would have resulted in further time for Mr C, I havent seen anything  to 
show that Sagas  errors caused Mr C financial loss. 
Saga apologised to Mr C. It said it would give feedback to the individual who gave  Mr C 
incorrect information. And it offered Mr C £50 compensation. I understand Mr C doesnt this 
this is enough.  But overall I think its a reasonable amount  for the inconvenience  it caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Its up to Mr C to let Saga Services 
Limited know if he wants to accept its offer of £50 compensation which I think  is fair and 
reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0342141