K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about poor service  from The National Farmers Union Mutual  
Insurance Society Limited  (NFU) in response to their claim for water damage to their property 
under a building insurance policy held by the freeholders of their property.
background
In June 2017 Mr and Mrs Ms property suffered an escape of water from the flat upstairs. 
NFU sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage  and plumbing  repairs  were  made  to fix the 
leak. The loss adjuster had inspected Mr and Mrs Ms property and authorised  payment for 
repairs less than four years before for a similar  escape of water claim. 
Mr and Mrs M said the loss adjuster didn't  write  a schedule of repairs,  but instead  told them 
to provide two estimates. NFUs loss adjuster  was concerned that Mr and Mrs M werent 
named as the policyholders, but NFU subsequently  agreed to deal directly with them.
Mr and Mrs M wanted NFU to do the repairs but NFU said it would be difficult to arrange as 
Mr and Mrs M lived away from the address.  NFU disagreed with Mr and Mrs Ms estimate.  It 
made an offer of settlement for the claim,  which excluded the hallway ceiling work as NFU 
said it hadnt been fixed following their previous claim. NFU also reduced the cost of testing 
of appliances  and other items. Mr and Mrs M said the ceiling had been painted  following 
their previous claim,  it was just an old design.  They said NFUs offer was too low.
NFU re-stated its offer to Mr and Mrs M and asked them to provide details of the contractor 
who painted their hallway  ceiling after their previous claim. Mr and Mrs M complained about 
NFUs offer and its service. They said there  had been  delays and a lack of response  from 
NFUs loss adjuster.  They thought that drying out should have taken place and said they 
were upset by the handling of their claim.
NFU said drying out wasnt  appropriate as the upstairs flat wasnt occupied. NFU said that 
as it didnt think the work from the previous claim had been  fully carried  out it wasnt going to 
pay for this twice. It said Mr and Mrs Ms estimate  was overstated  for floorboard and 
appliance testing  and included theoretical repair  costs for appliances. NFU acknowledged a 
delay in its loss adjusters  communication with Mr and Mrs M and for this and a delay in 
recording their complaint NFU paid Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M thought that delays  and lack of reasonable service hadnt been  adequately 
acknowledged by NFU or compensated,  and their claim was still unresolved. They  brought 
their complaint about these issues to our service.
Our investigator said we need the policyholders consent in order  to consider  the complaint. 
Another investigator said we could consider the complaint but thought NFU had dealt with 
the claim fairly. She said it was fair for NFU not to do the repairs  as it didnt know when Mr 
and Mrs M would be at the property.  She said reducing the checking charges was 
reasonable and it didnt  have to pay for things that may not be required. She said NFUs 
deduction for the hallway ceiling repairs was fair as it was the same location  and damage as 
before. She said NFUs payment of £100 compensation for its delays was fair. 
Ref: DRN06816912Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigator saying the settlement as she had described  it 
would leave them worse  off than before their claim and thats not the purpose  of their policy. 
They said their past and present claim had been unfairly settled by the loss adjuster. Mr and 
Mrs M requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question as to Mr and Mrs Ms eligibility  to bring  a complaint has been  resolved. To be 
clear, they are eligible as the insurance policy covering  their property was taken out for their 
benefit. This means  I can consider  the merits of their complaint. I am sorry this question held 
up their complaint and this issue has now been dealt with separately.
Following their claim, Mr and Mrs M said they told NFU they didnt know when you were  
going to be at the property next. For this reason,  I think it was reasonable for NFU not to 
offer to instruct contractors to carry out the repairs and I can see its difficulty  in providing  
services. Making a cash settlement for a claim is a right NFU has under the terms of the 
policy. It chose to do so on the basis of estimates  that effectively serve as a schedule  of 
works. NFUs loss adjuster is an expert in assessing  estimates against the requirements of a 
claim, which is why NFU delegates  the administration of policyholders claims to a loss 
adjuster. I think this is a reasonable  approach to claims handling.
Mr and Mrs M said it was unfair for NFU to deduct the cost of hallway repairs from its 
settlement of their claim. NFU invited  Mr and Mrs M to provide details of the contractor who 
carried out the repairs to their hallway following their previous claim a few years  before. I 
think this was a reasonable request as it is the policyholders  responsibility  to provide 
information in support  of their claim at the insurers request. The information would likely 
have indicated the extent of the work carried out and inform  NFU about the current  claim. 
It was understandable  that NFU didnt  want to pay for the hallway ceiling to be repaired a 
second time, if its previous cash settlement hadnt  been used for thee repair.  I havent seen 
any evidence about this work  from Mr and Mrs M. It follows that I have no basis  on which to 
require NFU to pay for repairs  to the hallway of Mr and Mrs Ms property as it did previously. 
Ive looked at the other parts of the estimate Mr and Mrs M provided. NFU said costs  for 
checking were excessive, whereas Mr and Mrs M said these were from professional, 
independent contractors and are valid. NFUs  policy states it will only pay what it costs NFU 
to repair  the damage.
I think the costs to check elements of the claim appear to be quite high and I havent  seen 
any justification for this from Mr and Mrs M or their contractors. Consequently, I think  it was 
fair for NFU to deduct what  appears  to be an excessive estimate of around £030 from the 
cash settlement. NFU said it would consider any additional costs  that may be incurred for 
repair of appliances,  and I think this is fair. 
Mr and Mrs M said their claim should have been quickly  settled. That is the ideal situation, 
but only applies when  there arent non-claim issues as here and the parties  are in agreement  
about what the claim should include. The loss adjuster didnt carry out a schedule of work, 
Ref: DRN06816913but even if he had disagreement was likely  over repairs/decorating of the hallway. This is 
because the loss adjuster thinks that damage from a previous  claim  hadnt  been repaired. 
NFU requested quotes from Mr and Mrs M in December 2017 and received these from Mr 
and Mrs M in June 2018. I can see Mr and Mrs Ms difficulty about  this living  so far from the 
insured address, but this also held up progress on the claim.
There was a delay  due to the freeholder of Mr and Mrs Ms property being the policyholders  
for the policy under which they have  claimed.  I think this was understandable as the 
freeholders permission was required  by NFU for the claim to progress. 
NFU has acknowledged  a delay in its loss adjusters  response to Mr and Mrs Ms rejection of 
its offer of settlement. I can see from the records that the loss adjuster was away from work 
for some of this period  of over three months,  but the claim should have been handed on to a 
colleague. In respect  of the frustration that this and the delayed complaint caused Mr and 
Mrs M I think the compensation  NFU has paid of £100 was fair. 
Although Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, I would expect NFU to consider any 
further repair costs  they may incur after checking  the lights, the floorboards and appliances. 
And should consider any evidence that they may still provide of damage and the previous 
hallway ceiling repairs.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 February  2021.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0681691