K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)  trading as 
Birmingham Midshires mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
The policy only provided cover for Mr G so I have  mainly  considered  his circumstances  at 
the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr and Mrs G aware the PPI was optional and gain their consent before 
adding the policy to their mortgage. BoS has sent us a copy  of the application Mr and Mrs G 
would have completed when they applied for the PPI. The form shows Mr and Mrs G would  
of completed and signed an application form separate to their mortgage to apply for the 
policy. The PPI was also taken out some time after the original mortgage. So I think  Mr and 
Mrs G would have known  they didnt have to take the PPI for their mortgage to be accepted.  
Overall I think  BoS made it clear  that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they may not remember  this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr G 
has told us he would  have  been entitled to some sick pay and had some  savings  when he 
applied for the PPI. But the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to Mr Gs sick pay, and for 
longer. The PPI would also have allowed Mr G to keep his savings  in place to be used 
towards any other essential expenses he may have  had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and Mr and Mrs G seem to have had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs G paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs G back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN04952032If it hasnt  one so already  BoS will now make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs G now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0495203