K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the performance  of the Strategic Investment Allocation (SIA) Fund in 
a portfolio provided by Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (ASC).
Background
In November 2015, Mr O was advised to invest £564,000 in an ASC Target Return 
investment portfolio by a third-party  adviser.  Mr O recalls that the SIA fund within  the 
portfolio was held out as a unique  selling point, as it was said to restrict the level of risk the 
portfolio was exposed  to. Mr O says this gave him a level of assurance about the safety of 
the portfolio. Whilst the main investments performed well, the SIA did not, resulting in Mr O 
suffering substantial losses, such that by October  2018 the value of the portfolio had 
dropped to £509,700. Mr O complains that the portfolio did not achieve  its targeted  return 
and the SIA didnt perform  in line with the way it was marketed. He says he was unaware  of 
the complexity of the investments within the SIA fund and feels the decisions made by ASC 
were negligent.
ASC say this was a Terms of Business  relationship, where the instruction to open the 
Target Return portfolio was given by Mr Os adviser.  The adviser selected the target  return 
and a model was then agreed with ASC,  targeted to Mr O as a medium  to low risk investor. 
The overall portfolio  was then managed on a discretionary basis in line with the risk 
mandate, with regular  reviews attended by the adviser and Mr O. The SIA was a fund within  
the portfolio and so should  not be viewed in isolation. Its diversification offset the risks taken 
elsewhere in the portfolio, by investing in sources which didnt correlate  to traditional asset 
classes and by hedging strategies to remove exposure from underlying  markets.  
Historically the target return  portfolios had performed  well, but ASC accept  that the 
strategies they employed within the SIA fund during Mr Os period of investment were largely 
unsuccessful. ASC say they were transparent about  the funds performance at the regular 
review points and whilst that performance was disappointing overall the portfolio continued 
to be managed within Mr Os risk profile. In or around August 2018 they took steps  to 
redress the poor performance of the SIA fund, taking the decision to dispose of some  of the 
SIA fund and some  other assets within the portfolio.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. He thought ASC hadnt provided any guarantees 
as to the level of performance of the portfolio  and there was nothing to show  that ASC had 
been negligent in its management of the fund.  When discussing the view,  our adjudicator 
added that as the portfolio  was held on a discretionary  management  basis, it would be 
difficult to show that the fund manager made a negligent decision about an investment, given 
they set the objectives and performance wasnt guaranteed.
Mr O does not agree with the view. He feels strongly  that ASC mismanaged  the portfolio and 
failed to give a clear explanation as to why the SIA fund detrimentally affected the portfolio.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has therefore come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06486362It is important  that I explain at the outset that I will not be considering the suitability of the 
recommendation to invest and remain  invested  within this portfolio,  which  contained the SIA 
fund. Any such complaint lies against  the provider of that advice.
This decision considers  whether investing  in the SIA fund amounted to a breach of the 
agreed investment  mandate and secondly, whether ASC failed to provide the service  it 
shouldve done  in terms of managing the portfolio and SIA fund. Its fair to acknowledge that 
there isnt an issue in this complaint about sharing  of information about performance of the 
portfolio or about reviews.  Its agreed that an ASC manager was put in place and regular 
reviews took place in February 2016,  May 2016, October  2016,  December 2017 and April 
2018 attended by Mr O and/or his adviser. It also isnt disputed that poor performance of the 
SIA fund was openly  discussed. Both the adviser  and Mr O also received annual  statements 
and could access information about performance of the portfolio online.
Ive considered the information from the time.  The original presentation to the adviser and 
Mr O from 2015  described the SIA fund as, a simple and efficient way of delivering  
institutional-grade strategies into your portfolios  and helps you cope with market volatility.   
It was explained  that 35.6% of the market exposure  would  be within the SIA fund. A page 
dedicated to the fund was at the end of the slide pack, which stated: 
The Strategic Investment  Allocation  Fund is designed to be used as part of a strategic 
approach to individual client wealth objectives and should not be considered as a stand-
alone investment.
 
The fund is designed  to generate an absolute return when  viewed  with other  assets in the 
clients portfolio. As a result,  if other  assets in the portfolio are performing well, this fund may 
not produce a positive  return.
The use of derivatives in the fund may result in increased volatility in the funds price.
Due to the leveraged nature of derivatives, gains and losses can be greater than associated 
with traditional investment  instruments.
 
The fund will have the ability to hold short derivative  positions. This means  that the fund will 
not necessarily follow  market trends i.e. if stock markets rise the fund may not do so at the 
same rate, or at all.
The slide pack also contained a generic risk warning that the value of investments could go 
down as well as up and past performance was not a guide to future performance.
Ive also seen the personalised proposal  for Mr O. £250,000 was invested in offshore bonds, 
£100,000 in a personal portfolio,  £59,000 in an ISA and £154,000 in a SIPP. Overall the 
portfolio was said to be suitable for Mr O as a medium-low investor, defined as, 
clients who are prepared to accept a moderate  amount of risk over your time horizon. You 
want to protect the value  of your investments but you want  them  to grow as well. Under 
normal circumstances, you would not expect your investments to fall and rise sharply.  You 
accept, that in the longer  term, a higher level of risk may result in higher returns.
Ref: DRN0648636315.8% was invested in bonds,  47.5% in equities and 35.6% in the SIA fund. Whilst ASC 
have said the purpose of the fund was to counterbalance the portfolio to reduce volatility 
when more traditional investments werent  performing,  Im mindful that the type of 
investments within  the SIA fund coupled with the equity exposure may have exposed  Mr O 
to more risk than the proposal outlined for him. But as Ive explained at the outset, Im not 
considering here whether the investment was suitable for Mr Os needs.
Its clear from the contemporaneous  reviews and correspondence, that the portfolio did not 
perform as expected  and the SIA fund did not operate as had been anticipated. I dont doubt 
that Mr O was disappointed with the results. But, Ive also seen that no guarantees were  
made and the risk of the SIA underperforming when other investments were  performing well 
was explained  from the outset in the 2015 information, set out above. 
I havent seen  anything to show that the strategies deployed by ASC in the SIA fund and the 
subsequent steps taken  to reduce exposure  to that fund in 2018, were anything  other  than 
the legitimate  exercise of commercial judgement  in managing a fund. The fact that the risk of 
underperformance of the fund materialised, does  not automatically mean that ASC did 
anything wrong. In the absence of any evidence that ASC mismanaged the portfolio - and 
the performance of the portfolio and the SIA fund alone isnt evidence of this  I am unable  
to say that ASC have  done anything wrong in overall management of the portfolio. 
And even  if I thought  that ASC had managed  the portfolio above the risk level in the 
mandate, I cant fairly say now that Mr O would have  done anything  different. Thats  because  
Mr O maintained his investment in the portfolio despite regular unfavourable reviews and 
meetings taking place  with ASC. 
I appreciate that Mr O will be disappointed but I wont be upholding this complaint against 
ASC.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0648636