K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about the compensation she was awarded by Lex Autolease  Ltd following a 
problem with her car.
background
Mrs B acquired a car on 5 January 2016 through her employers salary  sacrifice scheme. 
The Hire Agreement was administered  by Lex. On 9 March 2018, she took it to a garage 
where it was found that the delivery  blocks hadnt  been removed  from the vehicles 
suspension. 
Mrs B took the car back to the dealership to be repaired  on 19 March 2018. She left her 
house keys in the car as shed expected  to pick it up later that day. When  she later learned it 
would take longer to repair, her husband  drove  her back to collect  her keys.  She eventually 
collected the car on 23 March 2018. Each round trip to the dealership had been  44 miles.
In response to Mrs Bs request for a hire car for the period her car was being repaired, Lex 
told Mrs B theyd  cover a maximum of £25 per day for car hire. Mrs B looked  online and 
found itd cost about £25 a day for seven days, but if it was a shorter  period, itd be £28 per 
day. She emailed the adviser to ask how long her car would take to repair but she received 
no response. By the time the adviser  got back  to her, she had her car back.
The necessary repairs were carried out at no cost to Mrs B. But afterwards, Mrs B told Lex 
she wanted to be compensated  for the cost of the three trips shed made  to the dealership,  
the week shed  spent without a car, loss of enjoyment for the two years the blocks  were  left 
in the car and the general trouble  and upset shed experienced since  shed learned  about 
the problem.
Lex accepted  the dealership shouldve removed the blocks on delivery.  It apologised for the 
inconvenience this had caused and offered  Mrs B £150 compensation. But Mrs B wasnt 
satisfied and so she complained to this service. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She accepted Mrs B hadnt known the 
blocks had been  left in. But, Mrs B had explained  shed found  the car stiff to drive, especially 
when going over pot holes and so our investigator accepted the issue  had impaired her 
usage of the car. For this she recommended Lex should refund 10% of each monthly 
payment Mrs B had paid since the start of the agreement. She also accepted Mrs B had 
been without her car for about a week while the repairs were carried  out. As this was a result 
of the blocks not being  removed, she recommended that Lex should refund one weeks  
worth of the monthly  payment  for that month.
In addition, she recommended Lex should  pay £200  in compensation for trouble and upset, 
explaining this took into consideration the three  journeys Mrs B had made  to and from the 
dealership.
Mrs B was happy with our investigators  recommendation.  But Lex didnt agree with the 
outcome and has asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Lex has argued that if Mrs B was concerned  that the cost of a hire car was slightly higher 
than what shed been offered, and she hadnt  had a response to her email,  she could have 
called through  to the case handler to find the answer. It argued  that it would have paid the 
Ref: DRN06510572minor difference in price. Lex has commented  that Mrs B had the opportunity  to arrange free 
transport, either with the dealership directly  or through  Lex, and that she didnt take any 
steps to mitigate  the impact to herself. 
Lex has also argued that a 10% refund of all of the monthly payments for impaired usage is 
unreasonable and disproportionate.  Its argued the issue was barely  noticeable when driving 
the vehicle day to day and therefore there  was no impact on Mrs B. The vehicle was 
serviced twice since Mrs B had it and on neither  occasion did she raise concerns about  the 
drive quality. The collection drivers didnt notice anything either. 
Lex said that while it disagreed with the outcome it was prepared  to increase its offer of 
compensation to £350. But Mrs B didnt accept  this offer (she said shed accept £550  but 
Lex refused to increase its offer to that level) and so the complaints been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
There seems  to be no dispute the car was supplied  with the suspension blocks  and these  
should have been removed before Mrs B collected  the car. I think  the car being supplied in 
the condition it was demonstrates in was not of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied to 
Mrs B.
Mrs B was without a car for five days from 19 March 2018 to 23 March 2018 and I agree she 
should be compensated for that. Our investigator has recommended that Lex should  refund 
one weeks worth of Mrs Bs monthly  payment and I think this is fair.
I accept that the journeys Mrs B made  to the dealership caused her expense  and 
inconvenience and that she wouldnt have had to make the journeys if the delivery  blocks 
had been removed when she first got the car. So, Ive taken this into account in my 
consideration of the appropriate level of compensation below.
Because Mrs B will be compensated for the week she spent without a car, the confusion 
around what Lex was prepared to pay for the hire car is only relevant insofar as it relates to 
the customer service she received. Lex has explained why it took so long to get back to  
Mrs B and argued that she couldve got an answer to her question if shed called the case 
handler. I think this is probably  right but Ive no doubt the confusion  added to the impact  the 
issue with the car had on Mrs B and I think she should be compensated for that.
Lex has said that a refund to the equivalent  of a 10% reduction in rentals  is excessive and 
that its an unfair outcome because Mrs B didnt know the car was performing differently to 
how it would  have done had the blocks not been  there. 
I accept Mrs B didnt know there  was a problem and that, other than the time it was in the 
garage, she did have use of the car. But I dont accept her ignorance  of the issue  means 
there was no impact and Im satisfied that there  was a period of lost enjoyment  for which  she 
should be compensated. Mrs B has reported  feeling  that the car was jarring  her spine when 
she went over potholes. And, notwithstanding the fact she didnt  realise the car wasnt  
performing as it should have from the time she got it to the time it was repaired,  Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN06510573shed been paying for a car for over two years that wasnt of satisfactory quality. Therefore, I 
think Lex should refund  10% of each monthly payment Mrs B has paid since  the start of the 
agreement.
Finally, Ive considered  the additional inconvenience and cost of travelling to the dealership  
and the service Mrs B received concerning the car hire costs and Im satisfied that, in the 
circumstances, £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and I direct Lex Autolease Ltd to 
refund  one weeks worth of the payment Mrs B made  in the month  her car was being 
repaired. This should include a payment of 8% simple interest* from the date she 
made the payment until the date of the settlement. 
refund  10% of each monthly  payment  Mrs B made since  the start of the agreement 
until the car was fixed. This should include a payment of 8% simple  interest*  from the 
date each payment  was made  until the date of the settlement.
pay £200 in compensation. The additional  compensation  is to be paid within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell Lex Autolease Ltd Mrs B accepts my final decision (if she 
does). If it pays  later than this then interest* will have to be added to the unpaid 
amount from the date of my final decision until settlement is made.
* If Lex Autolease Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold
income tax from this interest, it should  tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give
Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0651057