K820x#14complaint
F, a limited company, complains about  problems when  it entered  into a new agreement  with 
GPUK LLP to process card payments using a virtual  terminal. F is represented by its 
director, who Ill refer to as Mr D. Mr D asks for compensation.
background
GPUK provides card processing services to F. F entered into new agreements with GPUK in 
late 2018 when  it changed from a physical  to an online terminal.
Mr D says he asked GPUK several  times for information so that he could compare the costs  
of the new facility with the one already had in place,  but this wasnt  provided. He says he 
was told that all card schemes would  automatically transfer to the new account,  but found  he 
was unable to take payments using cards  from a particular card issuer. And despite asking 
that the previous contract ended when the new one started,  he found out that D was being 
charged for two facilities. 
Mr D says the company  didnt lose any payments.  But GPUKs  service was poor and he 
spent too much time sorting out the problems.  He asks that the company is compensated for 
this. He says the compensation offered by GPUK isnt sufficient.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
GPUK told Mr D it would de-activate the old account when the new one started. But the 
card processing guide says hed have to give 30 days notice to end the agreement.  And 
Mr D used the old account after hed said it should have been closed.
there was a delay  in setting up a card issuer  on the account.  But F didnt suffer  any 
financial loss because  of this.
Mr D asked for a cost comparison.  While  GPUK  said he could compare costs using 
invoices for the old account and the schedule for the new account, it should  have  either 
told Mr D this or provided a cost comparison.
while there was some  confusion about  whether theyd  be a charge  for collecting the old 
terminal, no charge had been  applied.
while Mr D said GPUK didnt return his calls,  GPUKs  notes  show  it did make  calls to 
Mr D. 
Overall, GPUKs offer to waive a charge of £62 and pay £62 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  by its errors. 
F didnt agree. Mr D said this wasnt enough  compensation for all the time and effort.  So the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
Ref: DRN02165182words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
F entered into an agreement with GPUK for the processing of ecommerce payments. This 
was to replace  an existing  agreement also with GPUK. Mr D says there were numerous 
problems. Mr D says F didnt lose any business. But hes unhappy about the charges applied 
by GPUK. And he asks for compensation for the time hes spent on the matter.  
the charges
There are three charges Mr D disputes:  the monthly charge for both the old and the new 
facilities for October 2018 and the £30 charge  for collecting the old terminal. 
The agreement F previously had with GPUK said F had to give a months  notice to terminate 
the agreement. But, while F wanted  to terminate the agreement, this was because it was 
taking out a new agreement with GPUK.  
Mr D specifically asked GPUK whether the old account would close when the new one 
opened. I dont  think GPUK was sufficiently clear  in its response  that this wasnt an 
automatic process.  I can see why Mr D thought the old account would be de-activated when 
the new one opened  and as a result didnt give notice  to close  the old account.
It seems  likely that, had GPUK given Mr D correct information, hed have given notice to 
close the old account once the new one was open.  I dont  think  it makes a difference that he 
used the account (it seems on one occasion  in early October): had it not still been open he 
would have used  the new account instead.  
Mr D says he wasnt told there was a charge for collecting the old terminal. 
GPUK agreed to refund the charge for the old account for October  2018  and waived  the £30 
charge for collecting the old terminal. So I dont think F is in a worse position (in respect of 
the charges) regardless of whether the information provided by GPUK was incorrect  or 
incomplete.  
Mr D did intend that F enter into the new agreement with GPUK.  So I dont think its fair to 
require GPUK to refund  any charges  for the new agreement.
compensation for inconvenience
I think some  of the service  provided  by GPUK  was poor. GPUK  cant  provide call recordings.  
But I think the email  chains and GPUKs notes  support what Mr D says about having to 
chase GPUK for a cost comparison, to close the old account and to transfer a card issuer  to 
the new account. 
GPUK says Mr D had information about the costs of the old and new accounts  presumably 
to allow  him to make his own comparison. But its clear from the emails that Mr D expected a 
costs comparison from GPUK. I think  GPUK wasnt clear about  whether it would provide this.
GPUK says it acted promptly to put matters right when Mr D raised concerns about the 
transfer of the card issuer and closing the old account. On the whole, I think it did. 
Nonetheless, Mr D did have to contact GPUK about  his concerns. Hes been  consistent 
throughout that promised calls werent  made. I think its likely GPUK didnt always call Mr D 
Ref: DRN02165183when it said it would  and its likely  this caused Mr D inconvenience. But GPUKs  notes show 
that it did contact Mr D to confirm what action it had taken. 
GPUK offered £62 compensation  (in addition to refunding charges of about  £92).  GPUK  
says this is fair. Its linked  this to the charges F pays under the agreement  and its relatively  
infrequent use of the card processing service.  Mr D says more compensation is required for 
the time hes spent.  Its difficult to find an amount  that both parties would  agree  is fair. But 
given that GPUK did take steps to correct  problems with the account and refunded  some  
charges, I think its offer of £62 compensation for the inconvenience  caused is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that the compensation offered by 
GPUK LLP is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0216518