K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) have rejected her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) (s75).
background
Mrs Fs daughter purchased a holiday and she also purchased a flexi pass with a company 
Ill call Z. This allowed her and her mother to change their flight details without additional  
charge. But, when Mrs F tried to change the flight details, she had to pay an additional £65 
per person.  She paid this on her own Nationwide credit card. But she thought Z shouldve 
provided the flights free of charge and had therefore  breached  its contract with them. She 
made a claim to Nationwide under s75 as she said they were jointly  responsible and she 
wanted them  to return the £130  shed paid.
Nationwide didnt agree.  They said that for a s75 claim  to succeed there needed  to be a valid 
link between  the debtor,  creditor and supplier  and here they said there wasnt  one because it 
was Mrs Fs daughter who was the debtor and not Mrs F. And it was the daughter whod  
formed the agreement  with her creditor.
So Mrs F brought her complaint to this service and our investigator considered the evidence. 
She accepted there was a new and valid link between Mrs F (the debtor), company Z (the 
supplier) and Nationwide (the creditor)  when Mrs F made her payment  for the new tickets. 
But this wasnt the transaction  that was being disputed. It was the separate  transaction for 
the flexi pass,  that her daughter had set up with Z, which was the subject of Mrs Fs 
concerns. She explained that Mrs Fs daughter  may have a valid claim with her creditor  but 
she didnt think Mrs F did with Nationwide as her transaction was to purchase flight  tickets  
and those tickets  were purchased correctly. So she thought it was clear  no breach of 
contract had occurred.
But Mrs F disagreed. She insisted that there was only one contract and she had a valid claim 
under s75 and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs F but I dont think she has a valid s75 claim. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 claim.  This section of the Consumer 
Ref: DRN08599242Credit Act 1974 says that in certain circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for 
a breach of contract or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
But here its the multi pass  ticket purchase  thats the subject of the supposed breach of 
contract. Mrs F says that they didnt get what they paid for as it proved  impossible  to amend 
flights without additional cost. But it was her daughter  who booked the flight and it is for her 
to make any claim to her creditor  under s75. Mrs Fs subsequent transaction; to purchase 
the new flights, is not in question. That transaction  worked well as Mrs F managed to pay for 
her new flights. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Nationwide  to uphold her s75 claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0859924