K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Ms M took out in 2006.  The loan was originally taken 
out with Firstplus Financial Group Plc, but was transferred  in 2016 to a business Ill call E. 
Some of the issues  Ms M has raised relate to things that have happened since E took over 
the loan, and weve explained that theyd need  to be dealt  with separately in a different 
complaint against  E.
Ms M also thought the loan might  have been mis-sold. Firstplus records  show the loan was 
arranged through  an intermediary, which Ill call BF. BF is no longer trading, and Ms M has 
been informed  that her best avenue for pursuing a complaint about the sale of the loan is 
through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The parts of the complaint  that are about  Firstplus are as follows:
that Firstplus lent irresponsibly by not making  sure the loan was affordable;  and
that Firstplus suppressed the accrual of interest on the outstanding  loan balance from 
July 2009 without telling Ms M.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 3 July 2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 17 July 2019  to reply, and Ive heard from both. 
FirstPlus accepted my provisional findings by agreeing to pay the compensation I proposed.  
Ms M provided  some  additional context about when she found out for the first time how 
much she still owed.  But on the point I made about  whether  shed been  denied the 
opportunity to act differently if shed known  the true position earlier,  Ms M added nothing  
further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, theres no reason for me 
to depart from my provisional conclusions, so I havent.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in 
part by ordering Firstplus  Financial Group  Plc to pay Ms M £350 compensation. I make no 
further order or award
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03618562CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a secured loan Ms M took out in 2006. The loan was originally  taken out with 
Firstplus Financial Group Plc, but was transferred in 2016 to a business Ill call E. Some of the issues 
Ms M has raised relate  to things that have happened since E took over the loan, and weve  explained  
that theyd  need to be dealt  with separately in a different  complaint against E.
Ms M also thought the loan might have been mis-sold. Firstplus records show the loan was arranged 
through an intermediary,  which Ill call BF. BF is no longer  trading, and Ms M has been informed that 
her best avenue for pursuing a complaint  about the sale of the loan is through the Financial  Services 
Compensation Scheme.
The parts of the complaint  that are about Firstplus  are as follows:
that Firstplus lent irresponsibly by not making sure the loan was affordable;  and
that Firstplus suppressed the accrual  of interest on the outstanding loan balance from July 2009 
without telling Ms M.
background
Some of this narrative will be familiar to Ms M and Firstplus. Thats because Ive looked at this case 
before. By way of a jurisdiction decision issued in March 2019, I explained  why our rules would only 
permit us to consider the second of the two bullet points listed above;  that is, that Firstplus  
suppressed the accrual of interest on the outstanding loan balance  from July 2009 without telling Ms 
M.
The case has been looked at by two adjudicators; both came to broadly  the same conclusion. That 
was that the suppression of interest removed the compounding effect of interest on interest,  meaning  
Ms M was better off overall than she would have been if Firstplus hadnt done it. But they both thought  
Firstplus had failed to keep  Ms M properly informed, and said it should pay her compensation (£150) 
for the shock of finding  out late in the day that she owed much more  than shed previously  been led to 
believe.
Ms M asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Before I address the complaint, Ill provide some general  background to the decision by Firstplus to 
transfer Ms Ms loan to E. Its a standard term in lending  contracts that a lender has the right to 
transfer a debt to another business. Its a provision  that allows businesses to make  strategic decisions  
about their continued activity  in a particular  sector of the financial services market. 
In most  cases, a lender  will sell a portfolio  of loan accounts to another  business, and the most  
common reason  for doing  so is that original  business  no longer  wants  to continue  trading in that 
sector. Thats  what happened with Firstplus; the transfer to E didnt involve  any change  to the 
underlying contract  with Ms M and shes not in a worse position simply  because of the transfer.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  some, Im in broad agreement with the conclusion  expressed 
by both of the adjudicators.  But I dont think theyve fully explained  all of the finer nuances  that led to 
that conclusion being reached. My aim is to do that here.
Ms Ms loan is unregulated,  but the business that provided it is regulated. So its subject to the 
regulators high-level  principles on how to behave towards consumers. Two of those principles  are 
relevant here:
Ref: DRN03618563principle six, which requires Firstplus to pay due regard to Ms Ms interests and treat her fairly; 
and
principle seven, which  requires Firstplus to pay regard to Ms Ms information  needs and 
communicate in way thats clear, fair and not mis-leading.
Im not persuaded  the decision to suppress interest breached either  principle. Ultimately, it meant Ms 
M was charged less interest than she would have been otherwise. The issue is with Firstplus not 
telling her what it had done, and then when  she periodically  called to ask how much she owed,  giving 
her a falsely low figure. That typically  happened when the call handler  failed to look at a second 
screen that held the suppressed interest figure.
When Ms M eventually  found out the true position, she was understandably,  shocked and upset. Our 
adjudicators have recommended  Firstplus pay her compensation for that, and Ill come back  to that 
point in a moment. But theres  another reason Ms M needed to know  the true position  about  the size 
of her debt, and what was happening with the interest. 
I think  it was something  of an over-simplification just to say that because suppression removed the 
compounding effect, Ms M benefitted from it. Not knowing  about the interest suppression denied Ms 
M information  about how much she really  owed, so I have to consider if it also denied her the 
opportunity to do something she wasnt already doing to tackle  the debt.  
As it happens, in Ms Ms particular case, Im not sure her wider financial circumstances would  have 
allowed her to pay more than she already was paying.  So in that context,  I think  its probably fair to 
conclude that Ms M wasnt  denied opportunities to act differently because  of the failures  in Firstplus 
provision of information. 
I do think the effect  of Firstplus failing to tell Ms M about  the suppression of interest is limited to the 
shock and upset  when she eventually found out the true position. If she thinks  otherwise,  and can 
demonstrate that, Ms M is of course free to present  the relevant argument, with supporting evidence, 
in her response to my provisional decision. 
As things stand, however, Im minded to think redress here should be confined  to awarding Ms M 
compensation for the afore-mentioned shock and upset on finding out about  the suppressed interest. 
That said, I dont think £150 is enough. 
When someone has been  struggling with an unaffordable debt for as long as Ms M has been  doing, I 
dont think it should be under-estimated how much of a shock it is suddenly to discover  youve been 
completely misled about how much you owe,  and that your full debt is so much  more than you 
thought. Taking  everything into account,  Im provisionally minded to assess fair compensation  at 
£350. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 
17 July 2019 my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint in part by ordering 
Firstplus Financial Group Plc to pay Ms M £350  compensation.
Ill review my provisional decision after 17 July 2019, or sooner than that if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0361856