K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold her the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mrs S says that she wasnt told about  PPI when she applied  for her credit  card account. 
I dont doubt the honesty  of this recollection. But the event in question did take place over 15 
years ago. And even  the best of memories can struggle over that sort of time frame.  So this 
is something I have to consider when weighing up whats likely to have happened.
BoS has provided us with a copy of the credit card application and agreement that 
Mrs S signed at the time of sale  a copy of which we have shared with her representative. 
The quality of the copy weve been given is a challenge to decipher.  But having compared  it 
to a sample just like it, it looks like there  was a section called Product Details, below which 
there was reference  to PPI. And in the box next to PPI it looks  like there is an X. As this 
appears to have been computer generated like some of the information about  Mrs S, it 
would, in my view, have  been the likely result of a conversation between  both parties as 
theres nothing persuasive  to suggest anything different.  As Mrs S went on to sign the 
agreement right next to where it referred to PPI, I find it hard to argue  that she didnt agree to 
take the policy. And given the evidence  available, Im also not persuaded she only agreed to 
take it because  she thought she had to.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mrs S  which means  it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for her. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think that the policy  was 
suitable for her. She doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover that was available. And based on what shes  told us about  her sick pay 
and ability  to keep  up with her repayments using other means,  she seems to have had a 
need for the cover.
I know Mrs S says she could have received help from her family. However, the monthly 
repayments were ultimately  her responsibility. And as her familys circumstances were 
subject to change  just like hers, Im not persuaded this made  BoSs recommendation 
unsuitable.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mrs S clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
 
Ref: DRN01323122Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs S about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was a suitable recommendation to 
have made,  I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out 
as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mrs S paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give her back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what Ive said above,  
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Unless BoS has already  paid Mrs S, it will make  the necessary  arrangements  now that Ive 
issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.  
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0132312