K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her two payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms M bought the policies in 2000  and 2002  alongside further advances  on her mortgage.  
She applied  for the further advances  and PPI policies in branch. 
The policies provided cover for Ms M for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  The 2000  policy offered to repay £308.50 a month towards 
Ms Ms mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £7.50 a 
month. 
The later policy offered to repay £370.65  a month  towards Ms Ms mortgage balance and 
cost £15.00 a month at the time it was taken out. Both policies would also pay an additional 
£3.00 per month for every £1,000 originally borrowed.
At the time of the first sale, Ms M was employed  as a print finisher.  She has told us she cant  
recall any employee benefits  she would have  received if she was too unwell to work or lost 
her job. But she has said she could have  relied upon her family to make her mortgage 
repayments in the event  she wasnt working. Ms M has said she was in good health at the 
time of the sales but told us she had had a hysterectomy in 1997  for which  she took around 
four months off from work. And Ms M suffered from migraines but told us she hadnt taken 
any time off from work because of them. 
In 2002, Ms Ms circumstances were largely the same.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage started  in 1997 and closed in 
2012. The screenshots also show that Ms M took several further advances between  taking 
the mortgage and it ending in 2012, including one in January 2005. 
Ms Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ms representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms M wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Ms Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should 
have told Ms M about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN08196512The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms M and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms complaint.
2000 sale
This sale took place  in January 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN08196513The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Ms case.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
2002 sale
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN08196514While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms 
Ms case.
For both 2000 and 2002 PPI
As mentioned above, Ms M arranged a further advance  on her mortgage  in January 2005. 
This was after mortgage  lending  became regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole 
mortgage becoming an FCA regulated mortgage. That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Ms M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Ms M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN08196515Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms M and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms M know  she had a choice  in 2000  and 2002?
Lloyds had to make it clear during both sales that the PPI policies were optional.  Ms M says 
that Lloyds told her that if she didnt take the PPI, the further advances would not be granted, 
but she didnt  give us any further  details  about  this. 
Lloyds has been  able to give us some  of the documentation  from the time of both of the 
sales. And those documents include Payment Protection Plus Proposal Forms which are 
separate from the further advance applications. 
Both forms have been completed by hand  and signed and dated by Ms M in agreement  to 
take the policies. Ms M also filled out and signed direct debit bank mandates in each case to 
allow the monthly premiums to be taken from her bank account.  So, while I cant know what 
Ms M was told at the meetings  and I accept that pressure is subjective,  and difficult to 
evidence  the documentation I have  shows  the PPI was optional. So, if she hadnt wanted  
to take the policies, I would not have expected  Ms M to sign her agreement  separate from 
the further advances applications   to take them. 
And Ms Ms mortgage had already been in place for three years when she applied for the 
first further advance,  and without any PPI. So, I think she would have been aware that she 
could be granted  borrowing without having any PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms M knew  the policies were  
optional and she agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice in 2000  and 2002?
Both Lloyds  and Ms M agree that advice was provided during both sales. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Ms M with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether 
the policies were appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policies were suitable 
recommendations for Ms M. It seems Ms M cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policies. This is 
unsurprising in respect of sales  during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information 
about Ms Ms financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  to show the adviser 
took steps to establish whether Ms M would  have been caught by the significant exclusions  
and limitations which  might have meant the policies  did not fully meet her needs. For 
example, there is nothing  to suggest Lloyds  considered whether Ms M had any other means 
of making her mortgage repayments.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Ms M given her circumstances. So, Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
Ref: DRN08196516While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Ms M, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Ms M met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Ms M had a need  for the policies  it seems  likely that Ms Ms ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments (for which Ms M was solely  responsible) would have 
been put under strain  if she was not working for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for any redundancy  or sick pay benefits  she may have been  entitled to     
(Ms M cant recall  any benefits she may have  received).
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Ms M. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Ms M. There 
was nothing about Ms Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. Ms M didnt tell us of any further 
problems as a result of her hysterectomy which took place several  years  before the 
sales, so I dont  consider this to be an ongoing  condition. And Ms M hadnt taken any 
time off from work because of her migraines  so I dont think  these health  issues  
made the policies  unsuitable. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policies  included a requirement that Ms M be disabled or unemployed for 
60 days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum 
of 12 months for each  claim, it still provided valuable  cover  given: Ms Ms 
circumstances, the fact the policies protected the mortgage repayments relating to 
her home and the potential consequences  should Ms M be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Ms M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  her to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms M was given a broad description of what  the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that the policies  would protect  her payments if Ms M 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms M would have  taken out 
the policies without any sense of what the policies were for and of how much the premiums 
might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sales doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms M agreed  to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were suitable recommendations for Ms M, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
Ref: DRN08196517and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Ms M all of the information she 
needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendations and take them out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms M about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ms representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms M has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Ms M? To what extent did Ms M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Ms M. 
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms M 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Ms M, I have found that the policies were  
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Ms M would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Ms M says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN08196518Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms M knew she would have to pay something 
for the policies, it doesnt appear  Lloyds  told her the exact premiums at the point Ms M 
applied for the policies.  Having said that, it seems  likely Ms M would have been  told the cost 
before the policies  started and she paid for the policies  for a number of years, so if the costs 
were significantly  at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might 
have raised that with Lloyds at the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms M would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meetings in which she agreed  to the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Ms M would get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Ms Ms expectations about 
what the policies  would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policies actually did  if anything, it 
is more likely than not that the policies actually paid more in the event of a claim than she 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to any condition, injury,  illness,  disease or 
sickness which Ms M knew about  or should reasonably have  known about  or about 
which she had seen  or arranged to see a doctor  or which  she had received  treatment  
from a doctor during  the 12 months before the start date of the policies and which  
recurred during  the first 24 months  of the cover; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Ms M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms M be unable  to 
do the duties of her normal  employment  or unable to do any work for which she was, 
or may reasonably have become qualified for in view of her training, education and 
ability;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms M pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policies werent as 
Ref: DRN08196519good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms M from taking out the policies. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ms circumstances at the time of sales shows  that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. Ms M was eligible for the benefits and 
they provided cover that, despite  their limitations  and exclusions, couldve  proved valuable to 
her should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to 
suggest Ms M wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  as Ms M didnt 
have any ongoing  issues after her hysterectomy and was in permanent  employment. So, I 
still think she had some good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Ms M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
If Ms M had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
normal employment but also unable to do any work which in the insurers  view she might 
reasonably be, or become qualified for, it might have played  into her thinking about what she 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  her pause for thought  although given Ms Ms 
circumstances and the limited other means  she had (Ms M has said she could have  relied 
upon her family for financial help but their own circumstances  could change  so I dont think 
this could be relied upon) to make her repayments if she wasnt working, on balance,  I still 
think she would have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Lloyds may not have  told Ms M that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Ms Ms statutory redundancy entitlement and Ms M wasnt  
able to recall any employee  sickness benefits she may have been entitled to.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms M would still have thought  policies that paid up 
to 12 monthly benefit payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms M be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policies. The policies allowed for multiple claims to be made, they could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk for 
which she was solely responsible.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms M would still have taken out the policies. The policies were suitable for her, were 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Ms M was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms M 
would have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN081965110That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales processes. In those  circumstances,  DISP App 3 says it should  
be presumed Ms M would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  processes 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms M in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Ms M compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms M thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contracts,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Lloyds gave Ms M, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2000 and 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ms representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contracts to Ms M and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms M in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN081965111my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0819651