K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) will not refund any 
commission it received from their mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) premiums 
for the policy they took out in 1991.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about commission.  Thats  
because Mr and Mrs D complained in 2013 about the mis-sale of their policy,  and have now 
asked to complain about  commission only. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs D, and Ill 
explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where MPPI  was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the 
MPPI policy  more than 50% of the MPPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then 
that could create an unfair relationship  between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses  should pay back the amount  of commission and profit  share that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
BoS has given  me information that shows Mr and Mrs Ds ended in 2001. So based on what  
Ive said above,  I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer  Credit  Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and guidance  made  by the FCA in relation to the 
non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So BoS doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs D paid for the MPPI  they 
had with their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D say that they still paid MPPI premiums to BoS after they changed their 
mortgage provider,  so they should  still be entitled  to a commission  refund. But the rules 
relate to the dates  associated with the credit agreement (in this case Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage), not the MPPI itself.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN01317572Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0131757