K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  application completed at the time. The form 
had a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  had been selected  and 
printed before it was signed by Mr T. I think its likely the PPI was selected as a result of a 
conversation between Mr T and the Halifax representative. As Mr T was agreeing to 
additional credit, I would have expected  him to have  read the form and raised  any questions 
he had at the time before signing in agreement with it. So I think Halifax  made  it clear  that  
Mr T didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr T so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Mr T hasnt  told us if he would have received any sick pay from his employer at the time. But 
this policy  would cover  10% of the outstanding balance  of his account for up to 12 months if 
he was too sick to work or he lost his job. And this would be in addition to any sick pay he 
would have received. So I still think the PPI would have been useful to him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr T paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr T back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Halifax will make arrangements to pay Mr T 
now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN00997082my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0099708