K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt pay a fair market value for his
car when  he made a claim  under his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr G made  a claim to his insurer, UKI following an incident. UKI settled his claim by paying
him the market value  of £2,275 for his car.
Mr G thought this was too low and didnt  take into account additional features on his car. But
UKI said it had reached its valuation  fairly  and in line with the policy.
Our investigator didnt  think UKI had acted reasonably.  Following our approach,  she checked
four of the main motor  trade guides  and thought  that UKI should increase its valuation  to
£2,556. She said that one of the guides was out of kilter  with the others   so she didnt
include it to decide  an average of the remaining guides.
Mr G thought UKI should pay the higher of the valuations.  UKI thought  the lower valuation
should be included  when deciding an average. If we included the lower valuation,  UKI said
this showed that its valuation  was reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 July 2019. I thought it was fair and reasonable to 
include all four guides when reaching an average valuation. But I didnt agree that this meant 
UKI had paid a fair sum. I recommended  UKI pay an additional £112.25 to Mr G for the 
market value of his car. 
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision.  UKI said we havent explained why weve used the 
retail franchised figure from the lower valuation instead of the retail figure. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer has reached  its valuation
reasonably and in line with the policy.
UKIs policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of Mr Gs car
at the time of loss. We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints.
We think its generally fair for an insurer to look at the main motor  trade guides to obtain a
valuation for a customers car. UKI has told us that it predominantly uses  one of the motor
trade guides.
We find the motor trade guides more reliable than adverts because  they provide average
valuations based  on likely  selling prices  for the same make,  model, condition  and mileage of
a car.
Ref: DRN09359142Mr G replaced  the engine in his car in 2014  and he replaced the seats with leather ones. So
he thought UKI should have used a lower mileage than the total mileage his car had
travelled when deciding a valuation for his car. And he thought the leather  seats   and the
fact he had his car serviced and maintained at a dealership garage  added  value.
However I dont think UKI acted unreasonably  by using  the total mileage Mr Gs car had
travelled when deciding a valuation. And the guides provide valuations based  on the
condition of the car. Its a customers choice as to where he or she decides to have their car
serviced and maintained.  And its a legal  requirement to ensure a car is roadworthy.  So I
dont think the changes Mr G made   or the choice of service  and maintenance he carried
out to his car  mean that the valuation should be more than the guides  gave for a similar
car in good  condition.
UKI used  one of the motor trade guides  when deciding a valuation for Mr Gs car. This came
to £2,275. We checked all four of the main motor trade guides.  The valuations  ranged as
follows:
£1,849, £2,225, £2,660, and £2,815.
If we find that one of the valuations is out of kilter  with the others, we dont rely on it. In this
case, the investigator excluded the valuation of £1,849 as she said this was out of kilter  with
the others.  So she recommended UKI increase the valuation  to £2,556. This was the
average of the three higher valuations.
UKI disagreed. It said the difference between the lower valuation and the others was about
the same. So if we include  the lower valuation, this would show  that UKI had acted
reasonably.
I agree  with UKI that the difference between the two lower valuations  is about the same
(£376) as the difference between the second and third valuation (£435). So I think its
reasonable to include  all four valuations when deciding an average   and therefore fair
market value. However, UKI has relied  on the retail valuation provided  by the lowest guide
of £1,752. But we rely on the retail  franchised valuation which is a little higher in this case.
This is £1,849. We generally think consumers will buy from a franchise  so thats why weve 
relied on this valuation in this case.  
Using all four valuations  brings the average  valuation to £2,387.25. UKI paid Mr G £2,275.
This makes a difference  of £112.25.
So I think its fair for UKI to pay more for the valuation of Mr Gs car. However, the amount I
think is reasonable is lower than the investigators  recommended sum. But I think its in line
with our approach  to valuation complaints.
Ref: DRN09359143my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I recommend U K Insurance Limited  
pay Mr G an additional £112.25 for the market value of his car. UKI should  pay interest on 
this sum from the date it paid the original  settlement sum to the date it pays  Mr G at a rate of 
8% simple  interest a year.
If UK Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much  its taken  off. It should also give
Mr G a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0935914