K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the level of interest and fees Capital One (Europe) plc (COE) applied  
to his accounts when he was in financial difficulty.
background
The investigators background summary covered the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr M and COE so I wont  repeat it. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  something its not 
because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues.  
Mr M had 2 accounts with COE, ending 99 and 49 respectively. He ran into financial 
difficulties and told COE about  that on the 6 January 2018. COE  discussed with Mr M his 
Income and Expenditure (I/E) and a temporary payment arrangement (TPA) was agreed of 
£65 for the next 5 months  on a/c 99. Mr M confirmed he was able to make those payments 
and was not behind on other key expenses which were up to date. 
Unfortunately, Mr M couldnt  stick to that TPA and got back in touch with COE towards the 
end of March  2018.  A second  TPA was then agreed thus:- a/c 99 - £77 pcm, and a/c 49 - 
£30 pcm,  and this was again after he had discussed his I/E. COE also sent Mr M another I/E 
form to complete, invited  him to make  a repayment plan with a debt management complaint, 
and also signposted  him to the Specialist Support Team. Once again Mr M said he was able 
to afford the payments  and was not behind on other key bills. Mr M paid £77 in March and 
then £77 and £30 in April.  He paid nothing in May and June.
In June 2018 Mr M gave  COE his I/E over the phone and it was recorded  by COE that his 
disposable income was £30. A further  TPA was agreed at £30 pcm per account with COE 
agreeing to waive interest and fees on a/c 99. Mr M was able to make  payments in July and 
August, and although late with one, COE agree  to waive the overlimit  and late fees charged. 
Mr M then missed  the September and October  payment  and COE  restricted the use of a/c 
49 advising  him of the amount due to bring the account upto date, which  he did at the end of 
October. Thereafter the account has remained up to date. A further TPA was agreed for 
a/c 99 at £30 pcm with interest and fees being  waived. Mr M made  those payments until 
February 2019 when  he missed  that one, but then did make  a payment in March.
Mr M then complained to COE that the interest  and fees were  unfair  and requested a full 
refund. COE didnt  feel they had done  anything wrong and as Mr M was unhappy with that 
response an investigator from this service  looked into the complaint. Our investigator  
ultimately concluded that he didnt think COE  had acted unfairly. As Mr M didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether COE acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr 
M. My aim is to ensure  that a fair and reasonable outcome  has been achieved,  which  means 
taking into account  both COEs view and that of Mr M. 
Ref: DRN08515692My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where the evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities 
 in other words,  I consider what is more  likely  to have happened in the light of that evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  Looking at the available evidence, I think we have 
an unfortunate situation here. 
Mr M believes the charges applied  to his account  are unfair and I do appreciate that they are 
a lot of money.  However, in November 2009 the Supreme Court issued a ruling on current 
account charges,  which said that charges cant generally be challenged for unfairness only 
because a customer thinks they are too high, or unfair. - provided they are set out in the 
terms and conditions. So, banks dont have to make  refunds of charges and interest  if they 
have been applied in line with the terms and conditions applicable to an account.
When a business  knows their customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to treat that 
customer sympathetically and fairly.  The Lending Code sets out some things banks can do 
when a customer is in financial difficulty and that includes suspending  charges on the 
account. But they dont have to do that - what they have to do is deal positively and 
sympathetically with customers once they know  they are in financial difficulty,  and they can 
do a range of things,  depending on the customers circumstances.
COE first became aware of Mr Ms difficulties in January 2018 when he told them. They  
reacted to that appropriately by discussing with him his I/E and coming to an agreed TPA 
which Mr M assured COE he could manage. Although he was unable to stick to that 
agreement COE made a second TPA 2 months later and this was after COE had gone 
through his I/E once more  and received similar assurances from Mr M. They  also gave him 
advice about other  organisations which might  be able to help him. And then 3 months later 
COE acted  positively by going through I/E again  and agreeing a third TPA and this time 
waiving interest and fees. Fees were  again  waived following  a missed payment. A fourth 
TPA was agreed which Mr M adhered  to for 3 months with fees and interest waived again.
I think the above shows that COE  were acting  positively and sympathetically to Mr M. They 
gave him multiple  opportunities to reach  a satisfactory TPA and when it wasnt adhered to 
they were sympathetic in agreeing further arrangements. Fees and interest were waived 
more than once,  and I think COE tried hard to help Mr M from allowing both his accounts to 
default, which is something he did not want.  Additionally Mr M was signposted to two 
organisations by COE, who may have been  able to help.  So, I dont think  I could reasonably 
find that COE could  have  done more here. I know Mr M will be disappointed with my 
decision but I have  come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for similar reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Capital One (Europe)  
plc. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0851569