K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs and Mr G used to have with Pepper (UK) Limited.  
The mortgaged property  was repossessed  in 2016  and sold in 2017  because of arrears.  
Mrs and Mr G complain that Pepper sold it for less than it was worth. Theyre now being 
pursued for the resulting  shortfall.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think Pepper  had done  anything wrong. She said, in summary  that 
Pepper had sold the house  for a price that was consistent with the professional opinion of 
the valuers it consulted  before putting the house on the market.
Mrs and Mr G have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not gone into great  detail in setting  out what the complaints  about. Thats  deliberate; 
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
customers. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
Peppers duty was to sell the property for the best price  achievable  within a reasonable 
period of time (my italics). 
It may be a rather subjective test but the approach  we take,  in essence, is that a lender 
shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay a sale (thus  
potentially adding further to the borrowers  interest costs) to achieve an unrealistically  high 
price.
Its about finding a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain  two independent  valuations, and then to market  the property with a view to 
achieving a selling price at, or close to, the valuations.  In the case of Mrs and Mr Gs 
property, Im satisfied thats  what Pepper did.
The highest  of the valuations Pepper  received was £255,000, and the highest recommended  
initial asking price was £299,000. The property  was marketed with an asking price for 
£299,000, but was reduced in stages  over a period of months, as no offers were received. 
Eventually, with the asking price having been  reduced to £229,000, Pepper received offers 
of £190,000 and £195 0,000 before accepting an offer for £200,000. 
Ref: DRN02383642I think that decision was reasonable.  Ultimately, any property is only worth what someone is 
willing to pay for it at any given time. Here, a sale was achieved  at the highest of the only 
three offers that were  made for the property in almost  nine months. Given the timeframe, I 
consider the sale was achieved at the best price achievable, bearing in mind that the 
mortgage continued to accrue interest until the sale was completed.
I fully appreciate that losing their home was a distressing  experience for Mrs and Mr G, and 
I understand their strength of feeling about what  has happened. But in all the circumstances,  
Im not persuaded Pepper has treated them unfairly  or unreasonably. I know  theyve 
provided details  of the properties in their area that were on the market  at much higher prices.  
But ultimately, a property is only worth what someone is willing to pay for it; in this case, that 
was £200,000.
I cant say one way or another whether there were possible shortcomings or factual 
inaccuracies in the actual  valuations Pepper obtained at the time. These were the work of 
surveying firms and/or estate agents, not Pepper itself. 
My remit  doesnt extend to questioning  the content of the reports. These  were  the 
professional opinions of the parties Pepper was required  to consult. It was entitled to rely on 
those opinions when  deciding how much to try and sell the property for. 
Putting all of the above together, my overall  conclusion is that the shortfall Pepper is seeking  
is a valid debt for which it can fairly hold Mrs and Mr G liable, and can fairly  seek repayment 
proposals from them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0238364