K820x#14complaint
Miss B and Mr B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  gave them  
misleading information about the possibility of being granted  a further advance.  
background
Miss B and Mr B took out a mortgage with Halifax in June 2018.
Miss B contacted Halifax  in August 2018. She said she asked  whether,  if they borrowed 
money from family for house  renovations, they could then add it onto the mortgage after the 
renovations were complete. And she was told that this would be possible after 6 months.  But 
there was no mention  at that stage  that the money would have to go on a debt consolidation 
plan.
Miss B and Mr B borrowed  the money from family  and went ahead with the house  
renovations. And in January 2019 they applied for a further advance  of £40,000 to repay the 
loan and for further home improvements. But, although the application  was provisionally 
accepted, it was subsequently declined by the underwriters. And they were  told that any 
money used to repay a loan was considered to be debt consolidation, and so subject to 
specific requirements.
Miss B says that they then applied for £25,000 to just repay the family loan, but that 
application was also declined. And they were told that Mr Bs additional commission from a 
new job would not be taken into account.
Miss B and Mr B complained to Halifax, but it didnt uphold their complaint. It said,  in 
summary:
When an application is received for additional borrowing it will complete checks  to 
assess affordability before making  a formal lending decision.  It provisionally accepted 
Miss B and Mr Bs application based on the income  and commitments declared 
during the first conversation with the mortgage  adviser. But when it received the 
documents to support the application  it identified that there  was a student loan 
commitment that hadnt been  taken into account. This meant that the proposed  loan 
was no longer affordable;
The mortgage adviser referred the case to an underwriter to see if the higher loan 
could be supported. This was normal procedure and allowed the application to be 
manually assessed. But when  the application was reviewed  it was identified that part 
of the loan would be used  to repay  money lent to Miss B and Mr B by family 
members. And the commission  income declared was also questioned as this had 
increased significantly from the mortgage  application in 2018.  Although  the adviser 
did take into account the new job as the reason for the higher commission  income  it 
was confirmed that Halifax couldnt support an application dependent  on the higher 
commission level until it could see that the commission was sustained  at that level for 
a longer period of time.
As part of the further advance was to be used to repay a family loan this fell under its 
debt consolidation  policy. For any part of a loan used to consolidate debts the 
maximum term it will allow  is 10 years, to minimise the amount of interest paid. This 
meant that the loan would be repaid over a much  shorter  period of time and that the 
monthly payments  would  be higher.  And this then affected the maximum loan as it 
must take the higher  payment into account  in the affordability  calculation.
Ref: DRN02179922If Miss B and Mr B were to re-mortgage  with another  provider whilst  in the fixed  rate 
with Halifax they would be responsible for payment of the early repayment  charge 
(ERC).
Miss B and Mr B brought their complaint to this service. They  said that they had been given 
a lot of misleading  information which had caused  them a huge amount  of stress. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Miss B and Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
He could see that Miss B had contacted Halifax in August 2018 to enquire about a 
further advance  to be used for home  renovations.  He had listened to the call. And he 
was satisfied that Miss B hadnt  mentioned  that the further  advance would be used to 
repay family. So he didnt think that Halifax had acted wrongly by not telling her about  
its policy regarding debt consolidation.
When Miss B and Mr B applied for the further  advance this went  to the underwriting  
team. And Halifax declined the application  on the basis of its lending criteria.  Looking 
at the reasons Halifax had given he didnt believe that Halifax had acted unfairly, or 
that it had misled Miss B and Mr B.
As Miss B and Mr B were still within their fixed rate period if they were to change 
lenders they would  incur an ERC.  This was part of the mortgage terms they had 
agreed to.
Miss B and Mr B dont agree with our investigators  findings, so their complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that Halifax has not treated  Miss B and Mr B unfairly. I realise that this will come 
as a disappointment  to them, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Miss B has raised a number of issues. Ive considered everything  she has to say but have 
concentrated my decision on those  issues which  I find to be central  to her complaint.
Ive listened to Miss Bs call with Halifax in August 2018. And I agree  that the adviser told her 
that the account needed to be open  for 6 months before Miss B and Mr B would be eligible 
for further  lending. But the adviser  made it clear that this was not guaranteed. And I agree 
with our investigator that Miss B didnt say that she was planning  to borrow the money for 
the renovations  from family. So I also agree that Halifax didnt do anything  wrong  by not 
telling her about its policy regarding debt consolidation.
I appreciate that Miss B feels as if she was given a lot of misleading information.  But, from 
the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that Halifaxs advisers were  trying  to help Miss B and 
Mr B on the basis of the information available to them at the time.  Ive not seen any evidence 
that they were  told at any point that their application would definitely be approved.
Halifax says that it declined Miss B and Mr Bs application  as it didnt meet  its lending  
criteria. It says in particular that when the application was reviewed  there was a student loan 
commitment that hadnt been taken into account. And it says that, although Mr B was 
receiving higher commission payments in a new job, it wasnt able to take these into account 
Ref: DRN02179923until there was evidence of these payments  being  sustained over a longer period. In 
addition, its debt consolidation policy  meant that the repayments would be higher as the 
family loan would need to be repaid over a period of 10 years or less.
It is ultimately for Halifax  to decide whether it wishes to make a further  advance, and to set 
its own lending criteria.  From the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Halifax assessed  
Miss B and Mr Bs application fairly against its criteria. 
Under the terms of Miss B and Mr Bs mortgage an ERC  is payable  if they choose to repay 
their mortgage before  June 2020. Im satisfied that Miss B and Mr B were made aware of 
this charge in the mortgage offer they received. And, as Im not persuaded that Halifax  has 
done anything  wrong, Im not persuaded that it is reasonable  to ask it to reduce or waive  that 
ERC.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0217992