K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the administration of his annuity by Just Retirement Limited  (Just). He 
complains that Just didnt  apply  the correct tax code to his payments. He said this resulted in 
him receiving an unexpected tax demand. He also complains that Just failed to warn him 
that he had underpaid tax. Mr R says he was inconvenienced as a result of Just s actions 
because he had to spend time addressing the underpaid tax with HMRC. 
background
Mr R took out an annuity  plan in January 2017.  At the time he was still working, with his last 
working day being at the end of February  2017. Just has provided a table detailing  the 
payments made, tax codes applied, and tax deducted under  the plan.
Mr R received two income payments from his annuity  in early February 2017- an initial  
payment and then the regular monthly annuity  payment due on the first of each month.  Both 
payments were made  on 8 February  2017. They were taxed under code 1100L.  
Another payment  was made on 1 March  2017. The tax code applied was D0 and about 50 
percent of the payment  was deducted  in tax. A further payment was made on 31 March  2017 
(for 01 April payment) with the same D0 tax code. But this time about 40 percent  of that 
payment was paid in tax. 
The same D0 code  was applied on the next payment at the end of April (for 1 May payment) 
which was in the next tax year 2017-2018. Then on 1 June payment the tax code applied  
was changed  to 1150L.This resulted in a refund of tax in that payment. The payments  then 
carried on without incident with the same  tax code being applied  for the rest of that tax year.
However, Mr R received a demand from HMRC for unpaid tax of around £390  for the tax 
year 2016-2017. 
Mr R then complained  to Just. Mr R said he was unhappy he had been contacted by HMRC 
and told he hadnt  paid enough tax in the last tax year, so he would have to make a 
payment. Mr R said it was Just s responsibility to ensure he paid the correct amount of tax 
on the annuity payments.  
Just didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint. It said that it had correctly  applied the codes given to it 
by HMRC. It noted there were strict regulations in place which meant  the tax codes couldnt  
be changed or amended by anyone other than HMRC. 
Just agreed that it would have been  beneficial for Mr R to have been notified that his tax 
code was changing. But it said that was the responsibility of HMRC.  It also said that it 
received new tax codes  for hundreds of customers at a time and it didnt have the facilities 
and resources to make everyone  aware  of their new tax codes. 
Mr R disagreed and referred his complaint  to our service. Our investigator  didnt uphold his 
complaint. He was satisfied that Just had applied the tax codes which it had been provided 
by HMRC. The investigator said JUST, as the provider of his annuity, was not obliged to 
inform Mr R of a change  in tax code - that was a matter for HMRC.  
The investigator also said it wasnt unusual for there to be some  variance in tax codes when  
an individual moves  from working to retirement. 
Ref: DRN00741472Mr R didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said prior to signing the contract  
with Just he had asked about  the income  tax requirements and had been informed by his 
independent financial  adviser, that Just would assume all the same responsibilities as his 
employer. So, he believed his income  tax obligations would be correctly managed by Just.
Mr R said Just had paid income tax on the first two payments at a non-standard rate of 10.6 
percent and said the codes it used should  have  generated a tax rate of 40 percent. He also 
said that the third payment was taxed  at 50 percent which was not a recognised  tax rate.
Mr R said Just didnt explain to him why it was using those tax codes and it didnt warn him 
or inform  him about the income tax underpayment.
Mr R also said he had provided  all the details requested of him in a timely manner. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R took out an annuity  at the end of January  2017. He was still working at the time. 
Just has provided a table  showing  the payments, deductions and tax codes it applied  to the 
payments under Mr Rs plan.
Mr Rs first two payments were made  on 8 February  2017. One of those was a regular 
payment which  was due on the first of the month.  
The tax paid on these  first payments was around  10.6 percent with a tax code of 1100L 
being applied.  It seems likely on balance that this wasnt  enough  of a reduction because     
Mr R was still working, so the annuity payment was in effect a second income. He has 
explained his last working day was 28 February  2017.
Mr R says Just knew  his situation and should  have applied the correct tax code. Just says it 
only had to apply  the tax code as instructed by HMRC.
The pension annuity completion quotation for Mr Rs plan set out that:
Income payments will be taxed according to instructions  from your local tax office.  Pensions  
of this type are usually  taxed under the Pay As You Earn (PAYE)  system.
I can see Just had written to Mr R on 3 February 2017 setting out information about  his plan. 
In that letter  Just said:
Your annuity is taxable under the UK Pay As You Earn system (PAYE),  the amount of tax 
you pay depends on your total income. We have informed Her Majestys Revenue  & 
Customs (HMRC)  that your annuity has started  and they will instruct us how much  tax, if 
any, should be deducted from your annuity. Until we receive instruction from HMRC (this 
usually takes up to 6 weeks)  we will apply the current emergency tax code to your income.  
Ref: DRN00741473Once instructed  of your tax code,  we will make  any adjustments and any tax overpaid (in the 
current financial year) we will refund.
So, I think it was made  clear to Mr R that the tax deduction on the first few payments  might 
be incorrect as Just,  at that early  stage, wouldnt have received any instructions from HMRC.  
I also dont think it was unreasonable to apply a default tax code until it received  those  
instructions as it appears Just did here. And that default code would be applied  without 
knowledge of any other income Mr R had received that tax year from other sources,  which 
could result in insufficient tax being  paid. 
I consider there was a real possibility that there could be an issue with the first annuity 
payment because the instructions from HMRC  had either not arrived,  or not arrived  in time 
for the processing  of the payment. 
Overall, I dont  think on balance that Just acted incorrectly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances.
The next payment  was made on 1 March  2017 which  was the due date for that payment. 
This time tax was deducted using the D0 tax rate. Just has explained  that was a flat rate of 
40 percent as Mr R didnt have a personal allowance. 
The tax paid on 1 March was around  50 percent  of the payment. Mr R has pointed out that 
50 percent isnt a tax rate and in contrast the next payment, made  on 31 March  2017, was 
taxed at a different rate of 40 percent. 
However, Just has highlighted that the two payments  (8 February  2017  and 1 March 2017) 
were made within less than a month  of each other.  It seems this was because the annuity 
was taken out at the end of the month  which didnt  allow enough time for the first regular 
payment to be paid on 1 February 2017.
Just has also said that account must be taken of the cumulative effect  of tax paid. So, the 
amount of income  received  by Mr R up to that point  in the tax year, and the amount paid in 
tax up to that point  in the tax year.
I note it may well have appeared, for tax purposes, that the payments were continuing at that 
frequency, which may have impacted the estimated overall income  for the tax year.
So, I am satisfied, it is more likely than not, that these factors would have affected the 
amount of tax paid.  Overall, I am satisfied on balance that Just had given a reasonable 
explanation for the amount of tax deducted  from the payment  at the beginning  of March 
2017. 
In any event, HMRC has looked  at the overall income and tax paid for that tax year to check 
it was correct.
The next payment  on 31 March 2017 (in time for the due date of 1 April 17) had 40 percent 
deducted for tax. Mr R doesnt appear  to be disputing that deduction.
Mr R has said in his complaint:
Ref: DRN0074147404.11.17 Received unexpected demand  from HMRC for unpaid  income tax amounting 
to £388.79.
22.11.17   After  a number of attempts to contact HMRC, I managed to get through to an 
advisor, and was informed that income  tax had been underpaid on annuity  payments, made  
to me by JR, on 31.01.17 & 01.02.17. I was advised that repayment options were  available.
It appears likely  on balance  that insufficient  tax was paid on the payments made in February 
2017. So, when  the tax year 2016-2017 came to an end and HMRC carried out its 
calculations, this resulted  in a tax demand. The demand was made  to Mr R several months 
after the end of the tax year.
The first payment in the next tax year (2017-2018) at the end of April 2017  was still taxed 
using the D0 rate. This rate was then changed  for the next payment at the beginning of June 
2017. As this was towards the beginning of the tax year it appears  HMRC  was able to 
ascertain that too much  tax had been  paid early  on in that year. This resulted in a refund of 
tax in June 2017.
From then on there was a steady reduction of tax at a lower  rate. I think it is more likely than 
not because Mr R had left his employment,  his final wages had been  paid and HMRC could 
see his income had reduced. 
Justs role and responsibilities
Mr R has said Just should have  applied its knowledge of his circumstances and deducted 
the correct tax from his annuity payments. 
Just was the provider of Mr Rs annuity.  It didnt sell the plan to him. Mr R went through a 
financial intermediary who would be responsible for explaining the terms of the plan to Mr R.  
Just, as the provider,  was obliged to set up the plan in accordance with Mr Rs instructions 
and to pay Mr R his annuity payments correctly and on time. But Im not persuaded it had a 
duty to assess his tax situation, because being  the provider of the plan didnt mean it had the 
necessary knowledge about Mr Rs tax situation  and what  tax code should be applied. 
However Just was duty bound to apply the tax codes provided by HMRC; who did have a 
more accurate and detailed  picture  of Mr Rs income and tax situation,  once it received 
HMRCs instructions. 
Mr R has also said that Just should  have warned him that he hadnt paid enough tax for the 
annuity payments  made in February 2017.  
 
But Im not persuaded that Just wouldve had all the information about  Mr Rs financial affairs 
in order to be confident that insufficient  tax had been paid in the tax year 2016-2017. So, I 
dont think it was in a position to warn Mr R that he was likely to receive a demand. And 
ultimately, whether  or not he had paid enough tax, was a matter for HMRC, not his annuity  
provider.
In any event, I consider  Just did give Mr R a warning, in general terms, at the outset that 
until it received instructions from HMRC the tax deduction might  not be correct. And it also 
warned Mr R that it usually took up to six weeks to receive those  instructions.
Ref: DRN00741475I appreciate it must have  been upsetting for Mr R to receive a tax demand particularly as he 
was retired, so on a fixed income. I also take into account what  he has said about  the time 
and effort  it took him to rectify the situation.
But I have to consider  whether Just has done anything wrong. And having looked at the 
evidence I am not persuaded  that it did. I am satisfied  on balance  that once it received 
instructions from HMRC in respect of the tax codes to be applied,  Just followed those 
instructions.
I also dont think there  has been  any financial loss as Mr R wouldve had to pay that tax in 
February 2017. Instead he was asked to pay it in the next tax year 2017-2018.  
So, while I am sorry that Mr R had to deal with this tax demand and the inconvenience that 
caused him, I am not upholding  his complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Rs complaint  against Just Retirement Ltd is not upheld for the 
reasons outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0074147