K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in alongside a 
mortgage in 2004. Mr E says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr E says he wasnt given a choice in buying the policy and he wasnt  given an alternative 
mortgage package  which didnt include PPI. NatWest has said Mr E wouldve been given an 
option and has provided a copy of Mr Es paperwork at the time of the mortgage.  
There was a separate application for the PPI. On the form, applicants are asked  to select if 
they want PPI and what type of cover they want. The form also gives  the option to not take 
out the policy. On Mr Es form, the option for cover  for accident, sickness  and unemployment 
has been selected and Mr E has signed  the form. It looks  like Mr E choose the cover which 
best suited his circumstances at the time. 
So, I think NatWest made it clear that Mr E didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr E got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
Mr E says he had generous sick pay benefits from his employer and savings he could  have 
used if he needed  to make his mortgage  repayments. The policy wouldve paid alongside 
any employee benefits he received  as well as covering him if he was made unemployed. 
And having the PPI would have meant Mr E could  have used his savings to pay for other 
essential costs  if he was too unwell to work or unemployed. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr E paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest  treated 
him unfairly.  
Ref: DRN07512532NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Es PPI was less than half of what he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Es commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr E back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
I know Mr E feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Hes put time and effort  
into his complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  all the points  hes raised, but for the 
reasons explained above these points dont change  my decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0751253