K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has closed his credit  card and relied on illegally 
obtained information to close his account.  He also complains that HSBC UK has not 
provided information under a data subject  access request (DSAR).
background
Mr Z had a credit card with HSBC. He also had a premier  banking relationship with 
HSBC UAE for 12 years. HSBC UAE decided to block and then close Mr Zs accounts. Mr Z 
says that within a week of that closure  HSBC  UK decided to close his account. Mr Z believes 
that HSBC UK acted  on information received from HSBC UAE.  
Mr Z says he was not signed  up to Global view, which  links their customers  HSBC  accounts 
worldwide so HSBC  UK should not have  had access to any information from HSBC  UAE. 
Mr Z says that HSBC UK acted on illegally obtained information received by HSBC UAE and 
closed his account. Mr Z would like his account  reopened.
Mr Z made a data subject  access request (DSAR) in August 2018.  There  were delays in 
dealing with his request.  At the time Mr Z brought  his complaint to us HSBC  UK had not 
complied with his DSAR.
Mr Z complained to HSBC  UK about the closure  of his account.  In response HSBC  said it 
hadnt done anything wrong  when it closed Mr Zs account. It explained it had carried out a 
review of Mr Zs account. And following this review it decided it no longer wanted Mr Z as a 
customer. HSBC UK gave  Mr Z 60 days notice of the closure.
Mr Z brought  his compliant to us. Our investigator  thought that HSBC hadnt done  anything 
wrong when it closed Mr Zs account. However, she did say it had made mistakes and 
caused delays  in actioning Mr Zs DSAR. She said that it should pay Mr Z £200 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr Z. HSBC  agreed.  
Mr Z disagreed with the view and said he wants to know the reason for the closure. He says 
its not just a coincidence that both his accounts  were closed. And he suspects information 
was shared illegally. So, the matter has come  to me for decision 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Zs complaint is twofold 
Firstly, Mr Z submitted a DSAR to HSBC on 24 August 2018 and at the time of his complaint 
to us, it had not been complied with. Since then I can see that the DSAR was actioned on 
the 26 March  2019.  HSBC have  recognised  the delays and have agreed to pay Mr Z 
compensation of £200.
Mr Z says that not all the information has been provided under  the DSAR.  In particular he 
says that the information provided  does  not contain anything  from HSBC UAE which Mr Z 
believes is what in fact prompted the closure of his HSBC UK account.
Ref: DRN03019162I appreciate that Mr Z has had to wait for his DSAR. HSBC UK have agreed to compensate  
Mr Z for the long delays  and failure  in providing  the DSAR. HSBC  had already agreed to pay 
Mr Z £150 for the original delay and a further  £200  for the later delay. I know  that this has 
been frustrating  to Mr Z. And I have considered the trouble and upset Mr Z was caused  by 
HSBC taking too long and not complying with his DSAR.  I think  Mr Z was put to some 
inconvenience and I know that Mr Z put a great deal of importance on receiving the 
information.
Im satisfied that HSBC  shouldve fully responded to Mr Zs DSAR  sooner than it did. Mr Z 
believes the information he has asked HSBC for is an integral part of his evidence,  and I can 
see he spent a lot of time trying to get hold of it, chasing HSBC  for it and becoming 
frustrated in the process. Mr Z made  his DSAR request in August 2018 and he received 
some information in March 2019  some seven months later.
I think HSBC should  compensate  Mr Z for the trouble and upset hes experienced because  it 
didnt appropriately  respond to his D SAR  and Im satisfied that £350 already offered by 
HSBC is a fair and reasonable award.  
HSBC UK have said that there is still further information to come.  If Mr Z is concerned  about  
this, he should  consider  whether a complaint  about the DSAR should be referred to the 
Information Commissioner.
Secondly Mr Z believes that HSBC UK have acted on illegally obtained information in order 
to decide to close his account. He seeks to prove this by obtaining a DSAR.
I disagree with Mr Zs underlying understanding that banks cannot share information about 
customers and that any information provided would be illegally  obtained. Banks do share 
information and are obliged to do so in order to prevent  crime and fraud. The ability  to share  
data across the HSBC  group is set out in the Terms and conditions  and in the privacy notice, 
so I dont think HSBC  have done  anything  wrong  if they have shared information. 
HSBC has provided  me with a copy of its letter dated 29 August 2018.  This says it has 
decided that HSBC was no longer going to provide banking  facilities. And that Mr Z needed 
to make alternative arrangements within 60 days.  
I appreciate the impact  this had for Mr Z. But Im afraid that HSBC  has acted within the terms 
and conditions of the accounts.  It was entitled  to close the accounts having given Mr Z 
60 days notice. And it wasnt required to give Mr Z a reason, as much  as he would like to 
know. So, I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong by not providing  this information to 
him.  
In summary,  I appreciate  that the closure  of the accounts has caused Mr Z inconvenience 
and upset. But the bank can make commercial  decisions about who it offers  banking  
services to. They cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer.  But they can say they no 
longer wish to do business  with individuals.  Thats  because theyve got the commercial 
freedom to decide who they want to contract  with. And Im satisfied that HSBC has exercised 
its commercial  decision  legitimately when  it decided to close Mr Zs accounts. So, I cannot 
fairly and reasonably say its done  anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN03019163my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0301916