K821x#15complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that AXA Insurance UK Plc has not paid out on his claim for storm damage 
to his home and outbuildings  that happened  in early 2018.
background
In early 2017 Mr Ts home  suffered storm damage  and AXA accepted  the claim and made a 
cash settlement. The damage  included a timber shed being  largely  destroyed, damage to 
the stable block  roof, damage to the roof of the hot-tub shelter  (gazebo)  and water ingress to 
a walk-in wardrobe. It was detailed that some of the damage to the stable roof would be 
covered, but some  wouldnt as the problem  was due to the nature of the materials used, 
rather than the storm.  
In early 2018 Mr T made  a claim for damage which he believed had been caused  by a 
period of severe, stormy weather.  Damage  was reported to outbuildings, one having  been 
completely destroyed due to the wind and weight of snow, cracking  to a retaining wall in the 
garden, damage to the main roof of the house (with associated  water damage to the rooms  
below) and damage  to the roof of the detached  garage.
AXA arranged for a surveyor to visit the property and assess the damage. The surveyor  
concluded that the damage to the garage roof wasnt due to snow or wind loading,  but rather  
poor design. The retaining wall was damaged as there was no/insufficient drainage for the 
retained soil and water pressure over time had distorted the wall and caused it to crack.  As 
for the cracked floor slab in the stable block, this again wasnt considered to be storm 
damage, but rather it was caused  by the design  of the slab and its location. The damage to 
the main roof of the house was recorded  as being  due to wear and tear as nothing had been 
dislodged, and there was missing mortar  along  the ridge. The damage to the gazebo roof 
was considered to be likely due to storm conditions.  Following  this the claim was declined by 
AXA as its surveyor wasnt persuaded that the damage was caused by a storm.
Mr T didnt  accept AXAs decision. He commissioned his own structural engineering report 
and AXA also reassessed the damage claimed for. Mr Ts engineers report  said that a 
pre-existing crack in the concrete floor of the stable  block had worsened considerably. The 
garage was described  as having a significant bowing deformation  to the roof ridge line. This 
had resulted in the outward bowing of the eaves  fasciae, which had resulted  in cracking to 
the gable masonry. It couldnt say there  wasnt any damage before the severe weather, but it 
said it was without question that the excessive snow build-up on the roof structure had 
contributed significantly.  Newer gable  cracking evidenced that was the case.
In relation to the retaining wall, the engineer  said the wall had an outward lean suggestive of 
rotational failure. This had caused  settlement of the lawn area and an area of decking behind  
the wall. The engineer confirmed that the excessive build-up of snow from the recent storms 
had contributed to the failure  of the retaining  wall and the subsequent  depression  of the 
ground level.
AXAs resulting  further assessment of the evidence about the damage resulted in it 
requesting more information  from Mr T. 
AXA asked Mr T to provide evidence  of the repairs hed had done following the 2017 storm 
claim. Unfortunately no documentation was available, although the contractor confirmed he 
had done work and detailed what he could remember about it. This included replacing slates  
Ref: DRN03799762and damaged ridge tiles on the house and garage roof, repair  of the roof and replacement of 
lighting for the stable  and a replacement wooden shed. Internally, he confirmed he had 
completed repairs for water damage  and redecorated. An invoice was also produced for the 
2017 repairs, but it was on the letterhead for a company  owned  by the contractor, but one 
that had no involvement  with the building industry.
Mr Ts contractor subsequently confirmed that he hadnt completed any paperwork at the 
time because Mr Ts budget had been stretched for the works needed (including non-claim 
related work). This had meant that it had been  agreed that Mr T would pay for the work  in 
cash and no paper record of it would exist.  
In addition, given  the possible design  problems with the garage roof/loft conversion, AXA 
also asked for the design documentation and building  control certificates for the works. Mr T 
told AXA that there had been no need  for an engineer to design the conversion, but he had 
asked the council if it had any documentation  relating  to building control activities.  No 
evidence from building  control was provided.
Again, AXA asked for the design  specifications for the retaining wall in order  to assess  
whether it was adequately designed,  specifically whether  it included  a drainage system. Mr T 
said that hed asked the council for this information  too and whatever he received would be 
forwarded to AXA. The evidence requested was not provided.
Mr T complained to AXA about its handling of his claim. AXA didnt uphold  the complaint and 
didnt change its decision about the claim. It said that when the damage  was first inspected it 
was noted that some  of it wasnt recent  and hadnt  been caused by a storm; rather the 
weather had made it worse. It was also noted that some of the damage  claimed for was in 
the same  places as previous storm damage  that had been  claimed  for and a cash  settlement 
had been made. Due to this, AXA had wanted to ensure that the previous repairs  had been 
done. It hadnt received evidence that this was the case. As such, it maintained  that it 
wouldnt consider  the claim further  until the necessary documentation had been provided.
In September  2018 Mr T commissioned a second structural  engineering report on the 
damage to his retaining wall and the roof of the detached garage. The damage  to the 
retaining wall was described as a vertical crack  of up to 15 mm wide approximately 
mid-depth. The crack started  just above  ground  level and continued to the top of the wall. A 
secondary crack stated  half-way up the first and went diagonally to the top of the wall. It was 
confirmed that no settlement  or rotation of the wall was noted at lower levels.  It was also 
noted that there were six weep-holes in the ten meter wall.
The engineer considered  that the crack  to the retaining wall would have occurred 
instantaneously after extreme  loading of ground  pressure from the snow/ice loads imposed 
on it during the period of severe weather. It said that the wall would require  substantial  
rebuilding to prevent any further  movement  or collapse due to lack of restraints  within  the 
L-shaped  walling.
In relation to the garage roof, it confirmed  that the pitched roof was supported  on a steel  
framework that rested on the stone side walls of the structure. The steel framework  provided 
vertical and horizontal restraints to the dormer walls and roof. On the pitched side of the roof, 
there was additional timber  struts  and stud walling  to provide support to the roof. 
It was concluded  that the conversion of the loft of the garage  had been done using the 
correct materials and workmanship. The roof had suffered due to over stressing of the timber  
Ref: DRN03799763rafters following a lengthy period of excessive ice and snow  loadings.  The pitch of the roof in 
normal circumstances would not have allowed such a build-up of loads with the snow  sliding 
off at periodic intervals. However, the rafters had deformed due to these excessive loadings  
and would need to be completely replaced. The engineer  commented  that it would be 
prudent for the replacement  rafters  to be of a larger  cross-section  to prevent a future 
reoccurrence. 
The engineer also confirmed that the garage  roof conversion wouldnt have required 
planning permission  or building control when it was done, as it was only to be used as 
storage. It was also stated  that it wouldnt have passed building  control requirements for use 
as a habitable area. AXA established that building  control would have been needed for the 
conversion of the garage roof space to a room, which was clearly how it was used.
AXA declined the claim in September 2018. It said:
The roof damage  to the main roof was wear and tear and hadnt  been caused by a 
storm;
The patio, decking and retaining wall damage was again wear and tear rather  than 
storm;
The garage roof was damaged because  of poor design and/or workmanship rather than 
storm;
The stable roof it accepted may have  been repaired following the 2017 claim, but it 
hadnt been provided with proof  that it had; 
The damage to the main roof is the same as it was following the 2017  claim. No clear  
evidence had been provided about what repairs had been done.  
A 2014 claim had involved  missing  ridge  tiles and a crack in the retaining  wall, which  
were in the same areas as the damage that was claimed for in 2017 and 2018.  
AXA summarised its position as being unable to offer any settlement in relation  to the claim. 
It also said that based on its concerns about previous claims and lack of repairs,  it might 
review the 2017  claim. 
Mr T wasnt happy with AXAs position  and referred his complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint, but didnt recommend  that it be upheld. Mr T didnt 
accept the investigators  conclusions.  He raised  the fact that she had focussed on whether 
there had been  a storm or not, but AXA had never questioned this. 
The complaint was referred  to me to consider and I requested further information from the 
parties.
AXA was only able to provide very limited information about the 2014 claim mentioned  when 
it declined the claim.  It was made  in early  2014  for damage due to a storm. The damage was 
reported as ridge  tiles missing from the main  roof, damage to the stable roof and cracks  to a 
wall. The claim for damage to the roofs was paid.
AXA also clarified  that it had concerns about  whether repairs  from previous storm claims had 
been completed when it assessed  the 2018  claim.  As such, it wanted proof that the repairs 
had been done and Mr T had maintained his home  in accordance  with the terms of the 
policy. As he couldnt prove the previous storm claim repairs had been  done to its 
satisfaction, it declined  the entire claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 July 2019. In that document I detailed my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt of that document.
Ref: DRN03799764AXA is correct that a policyholder is required to maintain their property in a reasonable state 
of repair  and complete  maintenance on it when  such  maintenance is required. However, in 
order to decline a claim for lack of maintenance, or in this case  having not completed 
previous insured repairs, I would expect to see some evidence of the neglect. I also dont 
consider it appropriate for the entire claim to be declined if there  is evidence  of a lack of 
maintenance in an area of the property unrelated to the some  or all of the damaged claimed  
for. As such, I have considered each area of damage detailed in the reports  produced  by 
both AXA and Mr Ts experts.
I note Mr T is unhappy the claim is not being paid because he says a senior manager from 
the loss adjusters AXA employed said it would be. I can understand Mr Ts disappointment if 
this was the case, however, Ive seen nothing in the documentation from the time that 
indicates Mr T was told this. Indeed the inspection  of the property clearly documents  aspects  
of the claimed  damage was not due to the weather event, so it seems  unlikely he would 
have been told it was being  covered.
When we consider a storm  claim, the first thing we establish is if there  was a storm. I dont 
think there is questioned that there  was a storm in this case. We will then consider whether 
the damage is consistent with the type of damage  we would expect a storm to cause.  Finally,  
if there is damage of the nature a storm would cause, we will consider whether  the storm 
was the dominant  cause  of the damage, or whether there was a pre-existing  problem  or 
damage which was the dominant reason for the damage.
Roof of the main house
The only comments we have on the damage  to the main roof of the house  are those of 
AXAs expert. It said there was nothing  on the roof dislodged and the damage  consisted of 
missing mortar on the ridgeline. It was concluded this was wear and tear, rather than storm 
damage.
Subsequently AXA noted the same  type of damage  had been  present on the roof the 
previous year when  another storm damage claim had been made. AXA asked for evidence  
the repairs thought necessary the previous  year had been done.  Mr T wasnt able to provide 
evidence from the time,  although his builder said he remembered replacing  slates  and 
damaged ridge  tiles the previous year.
Eroded mortar from between ridge  tiles, when the tiles are stable and in situ, is not the sort 
of damage that would be expected to be caused  by a storm. This type of damage  will usually  
be caused over time with repeated small  amounts  of damage being caused by wind and 
rain. I note Mr Ts home appears to be quite exposed, and so such  erosion would likely 
happen more  quickly than it would on a more  sheltered roof. So AXAs experts  opinion  as to 
the cause of this damage would seem to be correct. As such, this damage  doesnt fall to be 
covered by the insurance policy.
Internal damage  in the living room
AXAs expert is again the only one that commented  on this issue.  It said that snow  from the 
storm fell from the main roof and melting  water entered the property through  the woodwork 
of the door. This damaged the wall and stained  the carpet. It was accepted this was damage 
caused by the storm and a valid claim under the policy.  
Ref: DRN03799765In light of this, AXA should settle the claim for this damage, including replacement  of the 
carpet.
Sheds
None of the experts commented on this damage to any extent. AXAs  stated one of the 
sheds had been almost completely destroyed and provided a photograph  of the damage. It 
didnt comment on the cause of the damage. As it wasnt put forward  the cause of damage 
was anything other than the storm as was done regarding  other  damage,  I can only assume  
the damage was accepted as being  caused by the storm. As such, I consider AXA should  
settle the claim for the damage to the three  sheds. 
Stable 
There are two areas of damage to the stables. The first being a crack  in the floor slab and 
the second damage to the roof. 
Both AXA and Mr Ts first expert commented  on the damage to the floor slab. Neither  
considered it had been caused by the storms. Rather it had existed before the storm and, 
whilst it is possible  the storm made the crack worse, it wasnt  the original cause. In light of 
this, I cant find the storm was the cause of the damage and that AXA has any liability  for it.
However, in relation to the roof damage, I consider the photographs of the roof from 2017 
and 2018 clearly show the roof was repaired after the 2017 claim. The damage appears to 
be consistent with wind damage, so I consider this aspect of the claim should be settled by 
AXA.
Garage roof
The evidence in respect to the garage  roof shows that at some point after it was originally 
built, the roof space  was converted for use  a dormer was added and a floor and staircase  
installed. Based on Mr Ts comments, it would appear the conversion was done  by a 
previous owner  and Mr T believed it was done to create a storage space. If Mr Ts 
understanding of the purpose for the conversion is correct, then building  control  wouldnt 
have been necessary when the works were done.  However, at the time of the claim, Mr T 
was clearly using the roof space as a habitable  room rather  than as a storage space. 
AXA declined the damage to the roof because its expert considered  it had been caused  by 
poor design. The implication being  that when the roof space  was converted  for use with a 
floor and dormer added,  it wasnt done to an appropriate standard.  
Mr Ts first expert said there was significant bowing of the ridgeline which had resulted in 
outward movement if the fasciae at the eaves. This in turn had resulted in cracking to the 
masonry of the gable  walls. It was unable to say there was not a problem before the snow 
build-up on the roof, but if there had been  an existing problem, the snow made it worse.
The second  expert brought in by Mr T said the structure of the roof was fine for its purpose.  
It said all the damage  was due to the additional loading on the roof by the build-up of snow 
from the storm. It said the rafters needed to be completely replaced and that when they 
were, it would be prudent to use larger timbers to stop the same thing happening again.
Ref: DRN03799766Where there are conflicting expert  reports I must determine which I think, on balance, is the 
more persuasive evidence. In this case  we have three different expert opinions:
the damage is because of poor design;
there is nothing wrong with the design, but suggesting an upgrade to the roof structure 
when the repairs  are done to prevent it happening again; and
there could have been pre-existing  damage before the storm, so effectively saying there 
could be a design/workmanship problem.
I think overall, there is sufficient evidence  to say there was a problem with the roof structure 
before the storm. Even the second  expert for Mr T, whilst saying the structure  was fine, has 
recommended it be upgraded to stop the same damage happening  again. This would rather  
undermine the earlier parts of its statement about the condition of the roof. As such, I am 
satisfied AXA wasnt wrong  to decline this aspect of the claim.
Retaining wall
AXA has referred back to a claim in 2014  to evidence this wall was cracked at that time and 
so it was not something caused by the storm in  early 2018. However, having read the 
information available from the time the cracked wall isnt identified as the retaining wall. 
Whilst I accept  that might  be the case, the one being referred to equally could have been a 
different wall somewhere else on the property.
So this aspect of the claim again comes down to what the expert reports  persuaded me is 
the most  likely cause of the damage. Again we have differing opinions about  the cause of 
damage:
distortion and cracking  caused over time because of water  pressure  behind  the wall 
likely due to a lack of drainage;
rotational failure. The excessive build-up  of snow would have contributed to this;
no settlement or rotational movement at lower levels. Lack of restraints  within the wall. 
Drainage in the form of weep  holes present. The damage was all due to the snow  
loadings from the storm and happened  instantaneously.
Two of the three experts appear to agree that the wall was rotating/distorting and had 
suffered damage  before the storm. On this basis, I am persuaded that the damage to the 
retaining wall was likely to have  been  pre-existing.  Whilst  it is possible the storm made the 
damage worse, the storm wouldnt  be considered the dominant cause, but rather  it would  
have simply highlighted  the existing problem. As such, I dont consider AXA acted 
inappropriately when  declining  this aspect of the claim.
Gazebo positioned on the retained  ground
Again, AXAs expert is the only one who commented  on this issue. It said the damage to the 
gazebo roof was consistent with storm damage. As such, I consider AXA should settle this 
part of the claim.
AXA didnt accept  my provisional decision and reiterated that it had the right under the terms 
and conditions of the insurance  policy to decline a claim in whole or part if the conditions 
were not adhered to. In this case,  the condition stating  a consumer has to maintain their 
property. As such, AXA considers Mr T should have to prove he had the works done  from 
Ref: DRN03799767previous claims before  it has to consider the 2018 claim further. AXA also stated that a 
similar storm damage claim has been made to M Ts current insurer in 2019.
Mr T said he thought the provisional decision was fair. He said he had spoken to the 
structural engineer  who had done the September 2018 inspection  of the roof. He said hed 
been told that there was nothing wrong  with the roof timbers, but hed suggested the 
increased timber dimensions to ensure  that there would  be no future  damage  should there 
be such unusual weather again. 
Mr T pointed  out that AXAs conclusions about  the retaining wall had been made when  the 
wall couldnt be fully inspected because of adjacent decking. He reiterated that once  this had 
been removed,  there  was clear evidence of weep-holes in the wall, evidencing AXAs 
conclusions were wrong. Mr T also said that whilst  the crack in the floor of the stable block 
might have happened over time, it was after the storm  he first noticed it. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  those made  in 
response to my provisional  decision, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has again highlighted  the requirement for a policyholder  to maintain their property. This 
is a standard requirement of all such policies and I have no issues  with an insurer  expecting  
this to be done. However, as with all terms and conditions of an insurance  policy, it should 
only be applied to defeat a claim, or part thereof, where it is reasonable for it to be  where  
there is evidence of neglect  by a policyholder.
In this case, it is clear  from AXAs own records that Mr T had the roof of his stable repaired 
following the previous storm damage claim.  So there is clear evidence this building has been 
maintained by Mr T. It is not appropriate for AXA to decline the claim because of a lack of 
maintenance when there has been  no such lack. 
There was mention of a shed being damaged in one of the previous claims, but AXAs  expert 
didnt indicate  he thought  one of the sheds  claimed for in 2018  was the same as that claimed 
for in 2017.  As such, it doesnt seem any of the other items I was minded to make AXA settle 
for were previously damaged. There was also no evidence put forward that the damage had 
been pre-existing or had been  due to poor maintenance of the structure.  Indeed, in relation 
to the gazebo roof and the internal  repairs and carpet in the living room, AXAs  own expert 
said these were valid claims.
I would also comment to AXA that the property  Mr T owns appears to be positioned in a 
rather exposed position. This may well mean  that wear and tear damage occurs over a 
shorted period than would usually be expected, which is something I would expect AXAs  
experts to take into account. In addition, its at an insurers  discretion whether to continue  to 
insure a property (as long as there are no ongoing claims). So AXA didnt have to continue 
to renew Mr Ts policy if it didnt want to continue  to insure him due to concerns about 
repeated storm damage to his property. 
The only area of my provisional decision Mr T has really  questioned is my findings  on the 
garage roof. Hes said hes spoken to his second engineer, whos  said that the roof was 
perfectly adequate  at the time of the storm and it was the extreme nature of the storm that 
Ref: DRN03799768caused the problem. The recommendation to increase the size of the roof timbers was in 
order to prevent any future extreme events causing similar damage. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I have to consider all of the evidence  available  to 
me. I note what Mr T has recounted of a recent conversation with his second engineer 
However, I have to look at all the expert  opinions. When  considered all the evidence, 
including that from the other two experts,  it still leads me to believe there was a problem  with 
the roof construction or alterations done  before the storm occurred. Effectively, the storm 
only highlighted a problem, rather than created one. 
Having considered both parties submissions, my conclusions havent  been changed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to 
settle the claim relating to:
the stable  roof;
gazebo roof;
the three sheds;  and
the internal  repairs and replacement carpet  in the living room.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0379976