K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading as Cabot Financial 
(Europe) Limited is asking him to pay a credit card debt for an account that was fraudulently  
opened in his name.
background
Mr H says that his late wife opened a credit card account in his name without  his knowledge. 
He says in those circumstances he is not liable for the balance and would like Cabot to write 
it off. He also says that this wasnt the only account  opened  in his name but those accounts 
were written  off as it was accepted these were  not opened by him. Mr H says he was spoken 
to inappropriately  by Cabot when he called it.
Cabot says it bought the debt from the credit card provider and says it spoke to that provider 
about the debt which  confirmed the debt was owed  by Mr H. Cabot says it spoke to Mr H 
appropriately when  he called it.
Mr H brought this complaint to us. Our investigator  looked into the complaint and thought 
that Cabot wasnt  responsible for the opening  of the account and had acted  responsibly  by 
checking the position with the original credit  card provider. The investigator  didnt  think  
Cabot had made a mistake or acted  unfairly but did think it could have handled the call more  
appropriately.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and has asked for it to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Cabot hasnt  acted unfairly  or made a mistake. I appreciate Mr H will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Cabot  has acted  in good  faith by buying Mr Hs credit  card debt. Im also 
satisfied that Cabot had no involvement in the opening of the account and so it cant be held 
responsible for what may have been  the fraudulent actions of Mr Hs late wife. I appreciate  
that Mr H says there was fraud and that this wasnt the only account  affected by that. But I 
think Mr H will need to complain to the original credit  card provider if he has not done so. As 
I think only it can decide if there was a fraud  or if Mr H is liable for the debt.
I think that Cabot acted fairly when told about the fraud by contacting  the original credit card 
provider. But I can see that Cabot was told by it that it held Mr H responsible  for the debt. So 
I dont think Cabot acted  unfairly or made  a mistake by asking Mr H to pay the account 
balance in those  circumstances.  
I have listened  to the call between the parties and Im satisfied Cabot dealt appropriately  with 
it. I appreciate it is not the main part of Mr Hs complaint but I think Cabot explained its 
position and that Mr H remained unhappy  with that position.
Overall Im satisfied that Cabot has bought  a legitimate debt and wasnt  responsible  for what  
took place when the account was opened.  So I cant fairly order  Cabot to write off the debt 
as Mr H would like.
Ref: DRN07580282my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0758028