K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi 
Finance, reported  missed  payments to his credit file.
background
Mr A took receipt of a new car in November 2015. He financed the deal through a three year 
hire purchase agreement with VWFS. He contacted  them in June 2018 and asked to 
voluntarily terminate his agreement. VWFS  sent a letter on 29 June 2018 to confirm the 
balance on the account and in that letter they explained that this final payment would not be 
taken by direct debit and was due within 14 days.  
A further  monthly instalment was paid by direct  debit before the due date and this reduced  
the balance further. 
When the payment  wasnt received on time VWFS reported missed payments to Mr As 
credit file.
But Mr A says he didnt  receive the letter from VWFS and he therefore  expected  the 
payment to be taken  automatically by direct debit.  He says the reports to his credit  file 
prevented him getting a mortgage.
VWFS didnt  think theyd done  anything wrong  and explained that they had to report  factual 
information to the credit  reference agencies. 
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
understood that Mr A disputed receiving the letter from VWFS on 29 June but he noted that 
their system confirmed it was dispatched  and to the correct address. So, on balance, he 
thought it was most likely  it was sent.  He said that the payment was due by 13 July but 
wasnt received until 16 August  and as this was more than one month VWFS  had correctly  
reported two missed payments to Mr As credit file. He understood that Mr A thought  delays 
in the process  were  due to VWFS  not collecting the car on time but he didnt think he had 
evidence to show the due date of 13 July 2018  had been amended and overall, he didnt 
think VWFS had done anything wrong.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators opinion  and he therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr A so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN05516692board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
I can understand Mr As frustration here as the missed payments dont appear to have 
occurred as a result of him being unable  or unwilling to pay. But having reviewed the 
evidence Im afraid Im not persuaded that VWFS have done anything  wrong.  They have an 
obligation to report  financial  performance accurately and it seems that they have as 
payments werent  received when they were due.
I can see from VWFSs system records that VWFS dispatched the letter  explaining the final 
balance due on 29 June  2018. The address they sent it to is the same as the address Mr As 
credit report  confirms he was living at in June 2018.  On balance, Im therefore persuaded 
that its most  likely  the letter was dispatched  and its more likely than not that the letter was 
received.
That letter explained that the final balance was due within 14 days  and explained that the 
payment would not be taken automatically.  But only a part payment was received and the 
balance wasnt paid until 16 August; a little over a month later. 
I understand that there were  delays collecting the car but I cant  see that the date by which 
the final payment  needed to be made by was ever changed.
In those circumstances I think VWFS were therefore right to report missing  payments and 
Im not asking them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0551669