K822xcomplaint
Mr R and Mr B complain  on behalf of A that Thomas Carroll failed to ensure A was covered 
for all commercial risks when they sold commercial business protection policies to it.
Mr R and Mr B want Thomas  Caroll  to cover both their legal  expenses  and a settlement sum 
they paid to defend  a claim against A. They also want compensation for the losses  
Mr R and Mr B say theyve suffered as a result  of Thomas  Carrolls failings.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2019, part of which is copied 
below:
A instructed Thomas Carroll  to act as their broker for business protection insurance in 2010. 
Consequently, Thomas Carroll sold A a number of policies which were renewed annually.  
The underwriters of the business protection  policies changed during that period, as did the 
products sold. Legal expenses  insurance  cover wasnt sold to A until 2013.
The dispute  between the parties  stems  from a claim made against A by a former customer. 
The claim was in relation  to advice, design and installation of window  frames  and glazing 
units. When A sought cover to respond  to the claim, it found there was none in place for this. 
Because of this it wants Thomas Carroll  to cover their legal expenses, the settlement sum 
they paid to defend  the claim  and compensation for losses they say they incurred as a 
consequence.
The parties in this case have made detailed representations about their respective positions.  
Thomas Carroll  accepts they failed  to put in place cover that wouldve responded to the 
claim made against A (including  damages  and costs) but say this wouldnt have made a 
difference, since no policy wouldve covered such a claim and in any event the claim was 
notified late. They also say that even if theyd notified As legal expenses  insurer  of the claim 
against A, when they became aware of it, this wouldnt  have made  a difference to A obtain 
cover for legal costs  since it would  have been  rejected  because  it would also have been 
notified too late.
Conversely Mr R and Mr B say cover wouldve been available to respond to this type of 
claim in the form of a management liability policy which wouldve provided cover  for legal 
costs too, had it been sold to A. Theyve also made representations that a professional 
indemnity insurance  policy might  have covered the claim made against A because the claim 
wasnt solely in relation to faulty  workmanship- which most professional indemnity policies 
exclude. In addition, they say that the legal expenses insurance cover sold to A was 
intended to cover small claims up to £10,000, which was inadequate.
Our investigator considered As complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  He 
thought that Thomas  Carroll failed to ensure A had adequate cover in place to protect  it from 
claims from its customers such as the one made against A. He also thought that Thomas 
Carroll shouldve notified As legal expenses insurer of the claim against it but that they failed 
to do so. Because of this the investigator  recommended that Thomas Carroll:
Either appoint a loss adjuster or ask one of their panel insurer's to assess  As claim 
under professional  indemnity cover; and,
Ref: DRN07123012If the outcome  of that assessment is that a claim would be accepted and paid out, 
then pay this amount  as compensation to Mr R and Mr B.
Thomas Carroll  dont agree so the matter  has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that As 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that the policies  sold to Mr R and Mr B were on an advised  basis. That 
means Thomas Carroll needed to ensure they were  suitable for As needs  and 
circumstances. In addition, they needed to provide clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the cover provided.
Its not in dispute  that Thomas Carroll  didnt  discuss the possibility of professional indemnity 
insurance with Mr R and Mr B, either when the first business protection policy  was sold or 
thereafter. But Thomas Carroll say this wouldve  made no difference  because that sort of 
policy wouldnt have covered a claim for faulty workmanship. Conversely Mr R and Mr B say 
the claim against them wasnt limited to that- it was a wider claim in relation to advice, as 
well as the design and installation and of window frames and glazing units, so it was 
arguable whether a professional indemnity  insurer would cover  such a claim.  And even if 
they wouldnt, they thought a management  liability policy would.  So either way, they say that 
Thomas Carroll  failed to sell them a policy that was suitable to their needs.
I accept that a small business such as Mr R and Mr Bs would have had a need  for cover 
from claims against them by their customers. Given the size of the business and 
Mr R and Mr Bs personal circumstances, I think they would have  been  concerned  about  
being exposed  to risks that could have dire consequences for them-  such  as the present 
case of the claim made against them. And I think the difficulties theyve faced in dealing with 
the claim without cover  in place to help with this highlights  the problems I think they would 
have wanted to protect against. So I do think their need for cover should have been  
assessed by Thomas Carroll. The question is whether  cover  for a claim such  as the one 
made against Mr R and Mr B would  have been  covered  by any policy Thomas  Carroll  could  
have sold to them. 
If it were clear  that a professional indemnity insurance policy  wouldnt respond to such  a 
claim and no other policies would cover  Mr R and Mr B, Id be inclined to say that Thomas  
Carroll need  not do anything further. But in this case, I think  theres some ambiguity. Thomas 
Carroll have  said professional indemnity  insurance  tends to cover loss arising from negligent 
advice, services or design.  Id agree with that. On the whole, it tends to exclude  defective 
manufacture or workmanship. The services that A supplies are advice, design and 
installation of items. That appears  to be the work that was conducted  and complained of by 
the third party  in the claim against A rather than defective workmanship in isolation. And in 
this case the windows and glazing complained of was outsourced  to another party. So I think  
it is arguable that such a claim could be capable of cover under a professional indemnity 
insurance policy. It would be a matter for the insurer of the policy to make  that decision.
Thomas Carroll  say that even if a professional indemnity insurance policy  was capable of 
covering such a claim, it would likely be turned  down  because it wasnt  notified by 
Mr R and Mr B sometime after the event that gave rise to the claim took place.  Thats both 
Ref: DRN07123013because the third party expressed  dissatisfaction with the work in 2013  and a letter  of claim 
was sent to A in 2014. Mr R and Mr B didnt notify Thomas Carroll of the claim for almost a 
year and a half after that. Ive considered  this and what Mr R and Mr B have said. I take their 
point that they didnt  actually have insurance  to cover this sort of claim anyway- so it made 
no difference when  the claim was notified. I think that had they been sold such  insurance- 
and the conditions of cover  had been made clear to them, its likely they wouldve sought 
help from their insurer sooner and notified the claim sooner. And even if Mr R and Mr B had 
failed to notify a notional  insurer  in good time, our approach is that its for that insurer  to 
show their position  was prejudiced by the late notification. Given  no insurance  was in place, I 
dont think speculating  about what might have  happened provides  any clear conclusions  on 
this issue, save to say that I dont  believe  late notification should be relied upon to suggest 
cover wouldve have  been provided anyway.
Ive also thought about what  Mr R and Mr B have said about the availability of alternative  
cover. I understand that a management  liability policy  may well have funded  both the costs 
of the claim made against A together with its legal costs. Whilst I havent  seen  the terms of 
that kind of policy- which I understand Thomas Carroll offered to Mr R and Mr B in 2018- Im 
persuaded by the fact that such a policy being offered to provide protection against further 
claims, including contact disputes, suggests there might well have been other insurances 
available to protect A from claims from their customers. It follows  that Thomas  Carroll  should 
(i) ask one of their panel insurers  to assess  As claim  under professional indemnity cover  
and a management liability policy they wouldve offered at the time- whichever offers  the 
highest level of cover; and (ii) if the outcome of that assessment is that a claim would be 
accepted and paid out, then pay this amount as compensation  to Mr R and Mr B. Ive also 
made provision for interest and compensation below  in my award of fair compensation.
When deciding this complaint, Ive also thought about Mr R and Mr Bs complaint  about the 
legal expenses insurance policy. I can see that when they notified  Thomas  Carroll about  this, 
Thomas Carroll  gave details of the legal expenses insurer  but didnt notify them  of the claim 
themselves. Theyve  given various  reasons why they didnt  think  they had to do anything  
more, including  that the details of the claim  mightve been confidential and subject to 
privilege. Because  of this they say the matter  was between Mr R, Mr B and their insurer.  I 
appreciate that Thomas Carroll werent  obliged to notify the legal expenses insurer of the 
claim. But I think that given the difficulties Mr R and Mr B were experiencing, it wouldve 
been good customer service for them to do so. And I dont think  it makes  a difference  
whether they thought such a claim would  be rejected. That was up to the insurer to decide. I 
accept however that their failure  to do so might not have led to any losses  for A, given the 
limitations on cover and the other  requirements of that policy. 
Ref: DRN07123014fair compensation
For the reasons  set out above, Thomas Carroll  should:
Ask one of their panel insurers to assess As claim under professional  and a 
management liability policy they wouldve offered  at the time- whichever offers  the 
highest level of cover,
If the outcome  of that assessment is that a claim would be accepted and paid out, 
then pay this amount  as compensation to Mr R and Mr B. Mr R and Mr B should note 
that Thomas Carroll will be entitled to deduct  the cost of the policy  premium  the 
insurance wouldve  attracted from any amount paid to them.
If any sums are paid to Mr R and Mr B that represent payments already made  by 
them, pay interest at 8% per year simple* from the date they were made, until theyre  
reimbursed.
Pay Mr R and Mr B £500 for the inconvenience  their failure  to consider and provide 
advice about cover for claims  by customers has caused. Had this advice been 
provided at an earlier  date I think it wouldve caused Mr R and Mr B to take less time 
away from their business to deal with this dispute.  If the advice was that no cover 
was available  for such claims (and it was correct) this wouldve managed their 
expectations and prevented them from having to spend  so much time dealing with 
this complaint under difficult circumstances. And if alternative  cover was available  
and advice was provided in respect  of this, it wouldve saved Mr R and Mr B time and 
effort in any event.
For the avoidance of doubt, I should  point out that our money awards  and directions 
(excluding sums for interest  and costs)  are subject to our current  statutory cap of £150,000 
so any sums  over that can only be non-binding  recommendations. If a complainant accepts 
an ombudsmans final decision,  it becomes  binding  on both parties,  which means a 
complainant cant  sue the respondent  over the same  subject matter  and that includes 
suing for anything not awarded in the decision and/or any balance  over £150,000.
developments
I asked the parties  to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. Both parties  have responded. They made  a number of 
submissions which Ive summarised below. Thomas Carroll have said:
They dont agree with my provisional decision for the same reasons set out in their 
earlier submissions in response to Mr R and Mr Bs complaint.
On the issue of compensation, they first advised Mr R and Mr B in respect of cover  in 
2005. If panel insurers confirm that an available policy wouldve covered them  for the 
claim against their former  customer,  it would be reasonable to deduct any hypothetical 
premiums that wouldve been  payable each  year from 2005, plus interest,  from any 
payment of compensation.
Mr R and Mr B have  said the following:
The provisional award is for the matter to be referred to a panel insurer  for consideration 
under either a professional indemnity policy or a management liability  policy (whichever 
offers the most comprehensive  cover).  They would like a mainstream  insurer  to be 
approached with products for joiners  and carpenters  and not Thomas Carrolls own 
insurers. 
Ref: DRN07123015Once a referral has been made,  Mr R and Mr B want to liaise with the insurer  to provide 
all information which may be required to properly consider the claim (such as the 
pleadings, expert reports, advice on liability, quantum  and the basis  of settlement of the 
claim etc).
On the issue of late notification, they wish to highlight again that they contacted  Thomas  
Caroll in 2014 when the third party first instructed  lawyers.
Theyre unsure whether I need to see all their losses in respect of the underlying claim to 
make an award. If so, theyre  happy to provide  those.
Theyve noted the cost limit on binding awards  and have asked for clarity  on whether the 
exclusion applicable  to costs applies to their costs in defending the claim in the 
underlying dispute  or whether they form part of the limit. 
Theyve also asked whether I can clarify  if A is entitled to recover  its costs  incurred  in 
pursuing this complaint.  They  say it was necessary to seek  assistance in respect  of this 
given the complexity of the legal and regulatory  issues involved, which wouldve been 
difficult for them to pursue, particularly in light of Mr Rs ill health.   They  feel these costs 
wouldve been minimal if Thomas Carrol and its insurers had accepted the original 
complaint.
Theyve also suffered  a number of losses; theyve had to borrow money to fund a 
settlement with the third party as they faced the risk of bankruptcy  if the matter continued 
to trial. Mr B didnt  have significant  resources and Mr R had to sell his family home  of 
over 30 years and move into a flat so the impact on them  has been considerable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
As complaint should be upheld in the same way I set out in my provisional decision.
I agree  that if a claim is payable to A, then Thomas Carroll will be able to deduct the policy 
premiums that wouldve  been payable on such a policy from the time they were  instructed by 
A plus interest at 8% per year simple. But Ive only seen evidence  to suggest A instructed 
Thomas Carroll  to source them an all risks business protection insurance  policy  from 2010.  I 
appreciate that Thomas Carroll say they were instructed in 2005 but in the absence of 
anything persuasive  that suggests A was seeking  insurance to protect them  from claims 
from their customers  before this, I think  the correct date for such  premiums  to be deducted  is 
2010, which is when  the insurance  that is the subject of this complaint, was sold.  As for 
interest, I dont think Thomas Carroll  are entitled  to this. We apply interest to money awards  
for consumers to recognise  loss of use of the money  theyd have  otherwise  have  had. Im 
not convinced  this principle would apply  to Thomas Carroll as any premiums they wouldve 
collected from A would  most likely have been handed over to the insurer  in payment of the 
policy they were arranging. So I dont think there has been any loss of use here. 
In my provisional decision I directed that Thomas Carroll instruct one of its panel insurers to 
assess As claim under a professional and a management liability  policy they wouldve 
offered at the time- whichever offers the highest  level of cover. I appreciate Mr R and Mr B 
would like a mainstream  insurer  to be approached rather than Thomas Carrolls own insurers 
but I dont think  thats fair unless such a mainstream  insurer was one that Thomas Carroll 
wouldve used to source insurance for them. Thats because my award  is based  on what  
would have happened had Thomas Carroll looked for insurance that was suitable  for the 
purpose A wanted  it for. In this case that purpose was to protect  it from claims from its 
customers. If Thomas Carroll couldnt  source  a policy like this from a mainstream insurer, I 
cant expect them to do so now. That said,  when  instructing one of its panel insurers I would 
Ref: DRN07123016expect Thomas Carroll to go to one that is most likely to sell policies suitable to As needs. 
And if cover is available then I agree Mr R and Mr B should be entitled  to present the 
information they want in respect  of their claim.
On the issue of late notification of the claim, my findings are that Thomas Carroll cant rely 
on this. The reasons for that are set out more  fully in my provisional decision. For clarity, this 
means that any insurer Thomas Carroll instructs cant rely on this to turn down As claim 
either. 
Mr R and Mr B have  queried how the costs cap on our award limits applies. It applies to their 
losses in their entirety, but excludes their costs in pursing this complaint  and interest. The 
costs they are claiming for defending the complaint  against the third party  therefore form part 
of their claim  and not costs in pursing this complaint. 
As far as the costs  of this complaint are concerned, I appreciate  Mr R and Mr B mightve 
incurred costs in getting help with this complaint. But thats not something I think  Thomas 
Carroll should pay. Whilst I understand why things might have been difficult  for them,  the 
Ombudsman Service is free and informal.  So, we dont  expect  complainants to be 
represented and generally we dont  award costs for pursing complaints through  us. That 
having been said, Ive taken into account the impact  this dispute  wouldve had on A as the 
complainant and that it wouldve caused  it inconvenience. Thats  why Ive made an award of 
£500. I cant however  compensate Mr R and Mr B personally for their financial  problems.  
And at present,  its not clear whether  A wouldve been able to obtain the cover to protect  
them against  the claim against it. If so and Mr R and Mr B can show clear  evidence of 
financial loss to A as a consequence of their claim being turned down, theyll  be entitled to 
raise this as part of the consideration  of their claim. This means  Thomas  Carroll should 
consider these losses alongside  any amounts that would  be paid under a claim.  
 
fair compensation
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold As complaint and direct that Thomas  Carroll should:
Ask one of their panel insurers to assess As claim under a professional and 
management liability policy they wouldve offered  at the time- whichever offers  the 
highest level of cover,
If the outcome  of that assessment is that a claim would be accepted and paid out, 
then pay this amount  as compensation to Mr R and Mr B. Mr R and Mr B should note 
that Thomas Carroll will be entitled to deduct  the cost of the policy  premium  the 
insurance wouldve  attracted from any amount paid to them. Such  premiums  should 
be deducted from the time the policy that is the subject of this complaint was sold,  
which was in 2010.
If any sums are paid to Mr R and Mr B that represent payments already made  by 
them, pay interest at 8% per year simple* from the date they were made, until theyre  
reimbursed.
Pay Mr R and Mr B £500 for the inconvenience  their failure  to consider and provide 
advice about cover for claims  by customers has caused. Had this advice been 
provided at an earlier  date I think it wouldve caused Mr R and Mr B to take less time 
away from their business to deal with this dispute.  If the advice was that no cover 
was available  for such claims (and it was correct) this wouldve managed their 
expectations and prevented them from having to spend  so much time dealing with 
this complaint under difficult circumstances. And if alternative  cover was available  
Ref: DRN07123017and advice was provided in respect  of this, it wouldve saved Mr R and Mr B time and 
effort in any event.
For the avoidance of doubt, I should  point out that our money awards  and directions 
(excluding sums for interest  and costs)  are subject to our current  statutory cap of £150,000 
so any sums  over that can only be non-binding  recommendations. If a complainant accepts 
an ombudsmans final decision,  it becomes  binding  on both parties,  which means a 
complainant cant  sue the respondent  over the same  subject matter  and that includes 
suing for anything not awarded in the decision and/or any balance  over £150,000.
Mr R and Mr B should note that if theyre unhappy  with the outcome of the panel insurers  
assessment of their claim or losses, its unlikely well be able to consider those as part of any 
future complaints because the issue complained of wouldnt  be a regulated activity. So, they 
might wish to seek advice  on this before accepting this decision. 
* I understand that Thomas  Carroll is required to deduct basic  rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr R and Mr B need to take any further action  will depend on their 
financial circumstances. More information  about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
my final decision
I uphold As complaint direct Thomas Carroll (Brokers) Ltd to comply with my award of fair 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mr B on 
behalf of A to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0712301