K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complains that Pepper (UK) Limited, trading as Engage Credit, is asking her to pay a 
debt relating to a mortgage which she understood had been settled some time ago. 
Mrs Is husband, who Ill call Mr I, has brought this complaint on her behalf.
background
Mrs I had a mortgage  with GE Money.  Mr I has explained that Mrs I has health problems 
which resulted in her having to give up work, so he paid the mortgage and bills for a time. 
Mr and Mrs I struggled to keep up with the mortgage  payments  and, in 2014, they decided to 
leave the property. Mr I says he discussed  this on the phone with GE Money, and he was 
told the property  would  be sold and the mortgage settled. 
In May 2015, GE Money took possession of the property and later put it up for sale.  In 
September 2015, the mortgage  was transferred to Pepper. Pepper trades as Engage Credit, 
and Engage carries  out the administration of the mortgage. The property was sold in 
December 2015.  
A shortfall  of just under  £18,000 was left owing once the proceeds of the sale had been  
taken off the mortgage balance. Mr and Mrs I say they knew  nothing  about this until August 
2017, when they got a solicitors letter asking for payment of the shortfall. They  complained. 
They said they had been assured nothing more was owed, the debt wasnt  showing on 
Mrs Is credit file, and GE Money had Mrs Is new address so they should  have  been  
contacted sooner. They also couldnt afford to pay the shortfall, and felt compensation was 
due for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
Engage said Mrs I is liable for the debt, and it had had no permanent address on its records  
for her, so it had instructed solicitors to trace her. It also said it had decided not to report  the 
mortgage on Mrs Is credit file, but that didnt mean there was no debt owed. It would not re-
visit the PPI complaint because GE Money  had sent Mrs I its final response about  that in 
2012. It asked  for her proposals for payment.
Mr and Mrs I got in touch with us. Our investigator  didnt think Engage  had done anything  
wrong. She found  it had obtained  various valuations and tried to get a reasonable price for 
the property, and this had nevertheless resulted in a shortfall. She concluded  that Engage is 
entitled to ask Mrs I to pay the shortfall, and it hadnt contacted her about this sooner 
because it hadnt  been given a permanent address for her. 
Mr and Mrs I didnt accept that conclusion. They felt Mrs I had been  treated very unfairly and 
it wasnt right that so much time had passed  before she was told about the debt. Mr I was 
adamant he was told the mortgage was settled, and GE Money had Mrs Is new address. He 
explained that Mrs I simply cant afford  to pay the money she has been asked for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09348622I realise that Mr and Mrs I are in a very difficult position and my decision will come as a big 
disappointment to them. But I find I agree with the investigators overall conclusions,  for 
much the same reasons. Im satisfied  that a shortfall arose following the sale of the 
mortgaged property and that Engage is entitled to ask Mrs I to pay it. 
Ive considered the information Engage has provided about  the three valuations that were 
carried out on the property in 2015 and the time the property was on the market. I find 
nothing to indicate that it might reasonably have done more to sell the property for a better 
price. The property sold for less than the balance owed on the mortgage, and a lender is 
generally entitled to ask the borrower  for payment of the resulting shortfall in these 
circumstances.
Ive also noted  what Mr and Mrs I have  said about  having been assured that Mrs I owed 
nothing more. That assurance is not, however, reflected  in any of the correspondence  they 
received. And the lender couldnt have known  whether Mrs I would owe any more  or how 
much that might  be until the house  had been  sold. 
Mr and Mrs I say they had given GE Money details of the address they were moving to, so 
there is no good reason for Mrs I not to have received  any contact about the debt for around 
two years.  The records Engage has provided  of that address change  say the address given 
was only temporary, and that Mrs I: Doesnt want any further  correspondence  sent to this 
address. Advised we will need contact address once she has moved somewhere more  
permanent. 
Mr I has told us that the address was only meant to be temporary, but it became  long-term  
and Mrs I is still there. I think  that matches up with the records  weve been sent, and so I 
cant fairly conclude  that Engage was wrong  not to have  written to that address. And the 
debt hasnt increased because of the time it took for it or its agents to contact Mrs I. 
Mr and Mrs I have said Mrs I cant afford  to pay the amount she is being asked for. Engages  
solicitors have sent her details of organisations which can provide free debt advice, and I 
would expect Engage to treat Mrs I fairly and take account of her circumstances.
Finally, Mr and Mrs I said when they first contacted us that they were also unhappy about 
the sale of a PPI policy. They received a response from GE Money about that in 2012  and 
have since told us they dont wish to pursue it. So I make no findings about that here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0934862