K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) mis-sold him a 
finance agreement.
background
In November 2016 Mr K took receipt of a used vehicle. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. A few weeks earlier  hed bought a car for his wife in cash  
and he wanted  to do the same again with this deal. But he says the dealership  convinced  
him it would be better to enter into a finance  agreement.
But Mr K says that he later realised  finance  was not a good option; as the APR he was 
offered was well above market rates.  He settled the outstanding balance, in cash,  in late 
2018 and he made a complaint to BMWFS  in August 2018.
But BMWFS  said hed signed all the contractual documentation  that explained the finance 
agreement in detail  and they hadnt  been provided with any evidence that the agreement 
was mis-sold. So they didnt uphold his complaint.
He therefore contacted  this service and our adjudicator reviewed the evidence.  He didnt 
think Mr K had been able to provide  sufficient  evidence that the finance agreement had been 
mis-sold to him. He thought hed been given enough  information to make  an informed 
decision and he explained that the documentation thatd been signed clearly  showed the 
APR and that Mr K had been given the chance to withdraw from the agreement within 14 
days but hadnt chosen to do so. 
But Mr K disagreed with the adjudicator. He said hed had no intention of entering into a 
finance arrangement  and that the APR was never discussed: just the monthly payments. So 
he still thought  the arrangement had been  mis-sold  to him and he therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres evidence here that the agreement was mis-sold  to Mr K. I know  that will 
be disappointing for him so please let me explain why I agree with the adjudicators view of 
this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the 
agreement should  not have been  misrepresented. If it was then BMWFS are responsible and 
Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
Ref: DRN02585002Mr K says he wanted to pay in cash but was persuaded finance was a better  option.  He says 
this is where the mis-sale happened  and that the sales agents didnt tell him about the APR 
rate and misled  him about the benefits of using finance.
But Mr Ks account of what happened in those discussions isnt corroborated and the 
dealership dispute any mis-sale. The finance  agreement had been explained to Mr K. The 
hire purchase agreement listed the APR on its front page and the charge for credit was also 
clearly listed on the same  page.  It wasnt hidden in the small print.  Mr K signed the 
agreement and I think its reasonable to suggest  that he had therefore read and understood 
this information.
The pre-contract explanation  document,  that Mr K also signed,  again gave a breakdown of 
the total cost involved  in financing the car.
Mr K had 14 days in which to withdraw  from the agreement he signed.  This was clearly  set 
out on the first page of the hire purchase  agreement. So he had a chance to reflect on what  
the sales agents had told him and to consider, with all the necessary information to hand,  
whether the charges made for credit  were worthwhile. But he didnt withdraw from the 
agreement, or complain  to BMWFS, until 2018  when his second annual  statement had been 
sent to him. 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask BMWFS to take any further  action here. Theres 
not enough evidence to suggest the agreement  was mis-sold. Mr K had been given all the 
information he required to make an informed choice about whether this finance option was 
the best way forward  for him. He had the opportunity  to withdraw  from the agreement  if he 
reflected on it and considered the costs  prohibitive.  So I think  BMWFS did all that they could 
have done to make the terms of the agreement clear and it wouldnt be fair to say there  was 
evidence the deal had been misrepresented.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0258500