K820x#14Complaint
Miss S complains  about Vitality Corporate  Services Limiteds decision to decline her 
application for a life cover policy. She doesnt  believe it correctly assessed her 
circumstances in reaching a decision not to provide her with cover.  
Background
In December 2018, Miss S made two applications  for policies  that provided life cover and 
critical illness cover. Vitality assessed  the applications and requested further  information  
about Miss Ss medical history. After reviewing Miss Ss medical  records,  it made a decision 
to decline her applications. It wrote to Miss S to confirm the decision and quoted  a pre-
existing medical condition as the reason for not providing cover. Miss S appealed the 
decision and said she wasnt suffering from the actual condition  quoted.  Miss S accepted 
that she had suffered from a different type of medical condition.  She provided a letter from 
her doctor to explain the actual condition she has. She asked Vitality  to provide a policy that 
had exclusions for that condition.    
Miss S was unable to resolve the issue, so made a complaint to Vitality and requested it 
reconsider her application. Vitality responded and it acknowledged that it had provided  
incorrect information about the medical  condition and hadnt handled Miss Ss appeal 
properly causing  a delay. It did complete a review  of the underwriting decision but continued 
to decline Miss Ss request based on the medical  evidence it had received. It maintained the 
decision was in line with its underwriting guidelines and philosophy. It paid Miss S £200  to 
acknowledge the poor service  provided during the application and subsequent  appeal. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whether to accept an application  its up to Vitality  to assess what risks it 
wants to cover. It is entitled  to set its own underwriting criteria to determine when it will offer 
cover without restriction, when it will offer cover with certain exclusions,  and when  it will offer 
no cover  at all.
In this particular  situation, Miss S didnt meet the underwriting criteria  to be offered a policy. 
This was because of her existing medical  condition  and the related treatment she had 
around the time of the application. Vitality relied on the information  it received from Miss Ss 
doctor about her previous medical history in making  its decision.  It also considered the 
recent treatment Miss S had received  including that the medical records said there  is a risk 
of significant side effects.  Vitality did consider  Miss Ss appeal and the additional medical  
evidence she provided. But following  the review its underwriters maintained  the decision to 
decline her application.  Im satisfied that in doing so Vitality was acting in accordance  with its 
underwriting guidelines and didnt treat Miss S unfairly. 
I have noted the comments  Miss S has made about Vitality offering her a policy  with 
exclusions. She has mentioned that she believes other people with her condition  have  been  
offered cover.   Miss  S has been  attempting to get evidence to support this. Although she 
hasnt been able to provide this evidence, Ive still considered the broader point she is 
making. Vitality is entitled to assess each individual application based  on the individual 
information relevant  to that person and apply it is underwriting criteria. As Ive previously 
explained, Im satisfied this is what Vitality  did when assessing Miss Ss application. 
Ref: DRN05085052Miss S has suggested that she has been  discriminated  against  by not being offered cover. 
As Ive explained, the decisions insurers make on whether to provide cover are risk-based. 
Vitality can decide on what basis it provides cover and Im satisfied that it hasnt treated Miss 
S unfairly  based  on her medical  condition. 
Ive considered the offer of compensation Vitality made to Miss S. I think  its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Vitalitys handling of the application has caused Miss S 
concern and frustration.  It didnt properly answer  her queries and this caused a delay in 
providing her with an understanding of why her application had been declined. As I think the 
offer is fair, Vitality doesnt  need  to do anything further to compensate Miss S. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0508505