K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC Life (UK) Limited mis-sold his pension plan.
background
In 1997 Mr S took out a personal pension plan with a company now known as HSBC  Life.
In 2014, a company Ill refer to as R took over HSBC  Lifes  pension  business. In April 2014,  
Mr S told R that he intended  to take his personal pension plan in full or in part in line with the 
legislation changes that were due to come into force in 2015. He also told R he wanted to be 
sure his pension  plan wasnt placed at any risk.
In 2017 Mr S made a number of complaints to R, including that the policy had been mis-sold. 
This was because he didnt think hed been provided  with sufficient information about the 
risks attached to the funds his plan was invested  in and the value of his plans had decreased  
as a result. He also said he hadnt  been told he couldnt make a partial  withdrawal. R told 
Mr S that HSBC Life was responsible for the sale so it redirected his concerns.
HSBC Life didnt agree the plan had been  mis-sold.  It said the sale of the plan was non-
advised and Mr Ss plan had been set up in accordance with the instructions in his 
application form.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service, along  with a complaint hed made about R. He 
said he should have  been provided  with clear information about the level of risk the funds he 
was choosing to invest in posed.  Mr S said hed made a number  of requests to R over the 
years that his plan should be placed  at no risk but this was ignored. He considered both 
companies to be responsible for the lack of information and his losses.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said Mr S hadnt been  provided with 
any advice at the time of the sale so it was for him to decide whether or not the fund he 
wanted to invest  in was suitable for him. She said Mr S would  have been  provided with a 
guide that explained the risk profile of the relevant funds. The investigator said R was 
responsible for any information provided to him after the sale.
Mr S appealed. He said the investigator hadnt addressed his point about not being told he 
couldnt make a partial withdrawal when the policy was sold.  Mr S didnt dispute  that he 
hadnt been given advice  but he maintained he hadnt been given enough information to 
make an informed choice.  So, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
The investigator subsequently received some policy documents from HSBC  Life from the 
time of the sale. Copies  of the documents  were provided to Mr S. The investigator explained 
she thought Mr S wouldve most likely  been  given these documents at the time. For this 
reason, she thought Mr S would have known  about the risks associated with the fund hed 
chosen to invest  in and what retirement  options he had.
Mr S was asked to reply  with any comments he had about these documents. As he didnt 
respond by the deadline  given to him, Im now providing my final decision  on the matter.
Ref: DRN03144202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, so Id like to explain why.
Mr S has said throughout his complaint  with our service that he considers both HSBC Life 
and R to be responsible for the information  provided to him about  his pension plan. But it is 
important to separate the businesses and their individual  responsibilities.  HSBC  Life is 
responsible for the sale of Mr Ss plan. So, Ill only be addressing  the issues  HSBC Life is 
responsible for, which is the information  he was given about the plan and the funds he could 
invest in. I understand  Mr S has already had a final decision addressing his complaints about 
R regarding the maladministration of his plan.
Its also important to bear in mind  that Mr Ss pension plan was sold over 20 years ago, so, 
not all of the relevant documents are available. For this reason, I have to make a decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ss application form. This shows he had to choose which  fund to 
invest in  either the International  Managed  Pension Fund or the Fixed Interest Pension  
Fund. Mr S chose to place 100% of his contribution in the International Managed Pension 
Fund. The note above  where Mr S was required to make his choice makes  reference to the 
funds being described in the Key Features  document. With this in mind, I think  its unlikely 
Mr S would have chosen to invest in this fund without having  sight of the Key Features 
document and the description  of the funds. 
HSBC Life has provided a copy of a Key Features  document from 1997. This may not be the 
exact version Mr S was given at the time,  but I think the information contained within  the 
copy he received would have been very similar  if not the same.  This document  includes a 
section entitled,  How  are my contributions invested? which describes the two available 
funds. The International Managed Pension Fund  was described  as follows:
The Pension Fund aims to achieve the long term growth needed to build  up your fund for 
retirement.
It invests mainly  in the shares  (equities) of top companies in the UK and around the world. A 
typical spread of investments might be 55% UK equities, 25% international equities and 20% 
fixed interest bonds and cash.
The Fixed Interest Pension Fund was described  as follows:
This Pension Fund  is primarily designed for people getting closer to retirement, to protect 
the growth which has built up previously in the International Managed Pension Fund.
However, you can invest contributions here from the beginning if you prefer  a very cautious 
approach. Because it invests only in Government  issued  fixed interest securities (usually  10-
20 year stocks) which are lower risk than equities, its long term growth is not expected to 
compare to the International Managed Pension Fund.
Ref: DRN03144203I think the two descriptions made it clear which fund carried the lowest risk. Mr S says he 
was risk averse and believed he had invested in a low risk fund.  But I think he wouldve 
known investing  in the International  Managed  Pension Fund carried a higher risk. On 
balance, I think he chose  to invest 100%  of his contribution in the International Managed  
Pension Fund knowing it posed a higher risk than investing in the Fixed Interest Pension 
Fund.
Mr S also says he wasnt made aware he couldnt make a partial  withdrawal from his plan.  
However the same Key Features document, under the heading of, What pension benefits  do 
I receive? says as follows:
You will have the full value of your fund:
You can take up to 25% as a tax-free cash lump sum (but you dont have to  you 
can use this money  to provide additional  pension income  if you prefer).
The remainder of your fund must be used to provide pension income.
Under the heading, What if I stop work but dont need to take my pension  income  yet? , it 
also explains  Mr S has the option to convert his fund in stages  (phased  retirement)  if he 
didnt want to take full retirement  straight  away. This information was also confirmed in the 
plan terms and conditions  Mr S wouldve been  sent after his application was accepted. So, 
I think Mr S was provided with sufficient  information  about the retirement options afforded by 
the policy before he committed  to take it out.
Overall, I think Mr S was given enough  information about the funds he could invest  in and 
the retirement options offered by his plan at the time of the sale. So, Im not upholding his 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314420