K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains esure Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  a claim she made  for an escape 
of water on her buildings insurance policy.
background
In July 2018 Mrs K noticed some damage  to her shower room floor. Water had leaked from 
the shower cubicle  causing the damage. esure didnt agree to cover the claim. It said the 
damage caused wasnt consistent  with a one-off insured event. It said water had leaked from 
the shower over time due to the failure  of sealant  and grout to the shower area.  It said an 
escape of water caused by a failure  of the grout or sealant was excluded  under the policy.  
Mrs K complained to esure but it didnt agree to change its mind. It said it thought  the failed 
sealant and grout would have been obvious to Mrs K so it wouldnt agree to cover  the 
damage.
Our investigator didnt  think esure had acted unreasonably  in declining the claim. She said 
the damage hadnt been caused by a one-off event and had happened  over time, which isnt 
covered by Mrs Ks insurance policy. She said esure  had shown it could rely on a couple of 
different policy  exclusions  to decline the claim. 
Mrs K didnt agree. She didnt agree such a small amount  of missing grout would have 
allowed so much water to leak out of the shower  cubicle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the policyholder (in this case Mrs K) must  
show that shes suffered  damage covered under the policy. If she can do so, the business 
will pay the claim unless it can rely on a valid exclusion to decline it. 
In this case Mrs K has shown her property  has suffered damage due to an escape of water,  
which is covered by her policy. So Ive looked at whether  esure has acted fairly in relying on 
an exclusion  to decline the claim.  Having done so, I think it has, Ill explain why below.
Mrs Ks policy excludes damage caused by failure or lack of appropriate sealant and/or 
grout. Having looked  at the report provided  by the business, Im persuaded its most likely 
that this is where  the water has escaped from. So the damage suffered as a result doesnt  
have to be covered  by esure.
The report  says gaps  in the grout and sealant  around the shower has caused  water to 
escape, causing the resulting damage. Ive seen the photographs of the bathroom. They do 
show small amounts of grout being missing  around  the tiles, and some  of the sealant has 
become mouldy.  I havent seen any other evidence provided by Mrs K or the business that 
persuades me there was another  more  likely  reason for the water to have  escaped. So I 
consider it has most likely escaped from the failed sealant and grout. And as this damage is 
excluded under the policy, I think  esure  has acted fairly in declining the claim.
I accept its a relatively small section of the shower  cubicle  thats  affected, but from the 
photographs Ive seen it looked like the damage had been occurring over some  time; I say 
Ref: DRN08086622this due to the staining  of the floor beneath the carpet in the bedroom.  So I think  its 
reasonable for esure  to conclude that even a small amount of missing grout or sealant  could  
have allowed water to escape when the shower was in use over a long period of time.
Mrs K has said shes had the repairs carried out at a much  cheaper cost than esure quoted. 
She says this shows the damage wasnt extensive  as esure had said. But the issue  in this 
case isnt how extensive the damage  was, its whether or not the damage should be covered 
under the policy.  And for the reasons given above, I think esure  has acted fairly in relying on 
an exclusion  to decline the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0808662