K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2000.
background
Ms W took out a loan with Nationwide in 2000  with a three year term. She was sold a single 
premium PPI policy at the same  time in connection with this loan during a postal application.
The PPI could have  covered Ms Ws loan repayments if she was off work sick for the 
remaining term of the loan and for up to 12 months per claim  if she lost her job. The policy  
would also have paid the outstanding loan amount in the unfortunate event of Ms Ws death.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Ws complaint should be upheld.  Ms W didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint. I understand that this will be 
disappointing for Ms W, especially as she has undeniably  been  through  a very difficult  time. 
However, I hope my reasoning which follows will help Ms W to understand why I couldnt  
uphold this complaint.
First of all Ive checked whether Ms W was eligible under the policy. Based on Ms Ws age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Ms W would have been 
eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Ms W that the PPI was optional  and needed  her consent 
before it could be applied to her account. Ms W says she wasnt aware  she had been sold 
PPI. She says she lost her job because of ill-health and that the PPI didnt cover  ill health. 
Nationwide say they made it clear PPI was optional  and that it was applied to Ms Ws 
account because  she chose to take it out.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms W and Nationwide have told us and looked to the 
documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more  likely to have 
happened.
In particular, Nationwide have provided us with a completed loan application form from the 
time of the sale. This shows that Ms W was given two equally clear  options to take or refuse 
PPI. It appears she chose take PPI by ticking the box for it. Ms W signed this form. The 
description of PPI where Ms W ticked to take it, explained that the cover was to provide 
peace of mind in the event of involuntary  employment, accident, sickness  or death. The 
section was headed protecting your repayments. 
Ref: DRN07666632Nationwide have also provided a copy of the credit agreement from the time of the sale.  And 
I can see that PPI appeared on the credit  agreement under the heading optional credit 
insurance. The costs  of the policy were  set out in a separate  column to the actual loan. By 
signing the credit agreement with the PPI as an optional extra, Ms W again  agreed to take it 
out. This agreement also repeated what the cover was for. 
So all in all, based on the evidence Ive seen,  I think the PPI was presented  as optional and 
was added to the account because Ms W chose to take it out. Of course  its understandable 
that Ms W may now not remember this given how long ago the sale took place.
Nationwide say they didnt recommend PPI to Ms W. This was a postal  sale without any 
apparent involvement  from a representative and so I agree its unlikely that Nationwide 
recommended PPI to Ms W. This means  Nationwide didnt have to take steps to check the 
PPI was suitable for Ms W. So for example, they didnt have to take into account Ms Ws 
existing repayment  means. Instead it would have been for Ms W to decide whether to take 
PPI despite her existing  means.  
But Nationwide did have to provide  Ms W with clear information so that she could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn  
Ms Ws attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
I can see the costs were set out clearly in the credit agreement. But its possible  Nationwide 
didnt give Ms W all of the other  information as they should have. This in itself doesnt  mean  
PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better  information  would  have put 
her off taking  PPI. 
Having done so, I dont think better information would have put Ms W of taking PPI out. I say 
this because:
-Ms W wasnt affected by the main  exclusions/restrictions in the policy  at the time of 
the sale. For example,  those relating  to unusual working arrangements  or medical  
conditions. Ms W did mention she had health issues and lost her job because of it. In 
her questionnaire although she ticked no to the question  about pre-existing medical 
conditions, she also mentioned that she was suffering from ill health at the time. Our 
adjudicator asked Ms W to clarify whether she was suffering from ill health at the time 
of the sale and Ms W confirmed that it was after the sale.  Ms W could contact the 
insurers in the first instance  to see if they would  consider a retrospective claim for the 
time she had to take off from work because of her ill health (and the eventual 
dismissal because  of it) if she was still covered under the policy  at the time.
-The PPI would have  paid out in addition to any other benefits Ms W may have  held. 
So it would have  paid out in addition to the employee sick pay she has told us about. 
And it could potentially have done so for a much longer  period  of time (for the 
remaining term of the loan) if she was off work  sick. It would also have paid out for up 
to 12 months if Ms W lost her job. 
-Although this was a single premium policy, it appears Ms W would have received a 
pro-rata refund if she cancelled the agreement early. This means Ms W wouldnt  
have lost out financially if she wanted to cancel the agreement early.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Ms W this 
PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN07666633my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0766663