K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Oakbrook Finance Limited,  trading as Likely  Loans,  shouldnt have lent him 
money in 2017.
background
In November 2017, Mr W borrowed £2,500 from Likely Loans. Hed repay  this amount, with 
interest, over 12 months. The monthly  repayments  were £266.24. He repaid the loan early, 
in February 2018.
Mr W says Likely Loans shouldnt have  lent him this money.  He says he was in financial  
difficulties due to gambling addition. He says the repayments and interest took a huge chunk 
out of his wages,  and this meant  he had to take out further loans to meet  his repayments.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She felt that, based on what shed seen, that 
Likely Loans had carried out proper checks before it lent Mr W the money. And so she 
thought its decision  to lend Mr W the money  was fair.
Mr W didnt agree. The complaint has been  referred  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
I dont uphold this this complaint. Ill explain why.
As Likely Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement, it needed to assess  Mr Ws 
creditworthiness, including the potential for the commitments under the agreement to 
adversely impact Mr Ws financial  situation, and the ability for Mr W to make repayments as 
they fell due over the term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied to Likely  Loans  at the time said it needed to 
take reasonable steps to assess  Mr Ws ability to meet the repayments under the agreement 
in a sustainable manner without Mr W incurring financial  difficulties  or experiencing 
significant adverse  consequences. This included Mr W being able to make  the payments on 
time while meeting  his other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
The checks  Likely  Loans had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan. 
This will depend on a number of actors including things like Mr Ws financial history, his 
financial situation at the time he applied for the loan, and other factors such  as the amount 
borrowed, type of loan and the cost of the credit  being sought.
In light of that, I think reasonable and proportionate  checks should generally  be more 
thorough where:
Ref: DRN06256542The lower a customers income  (as it could be harder to make  any loan repayments 
from a lower income)
the higher  the amount  to be repaid (as it could  be harder to meet a higher 
repayments from a given income)
the longer  the term of the loan (as the total cost of the loan is likely to be greater  and 
the customer is required to make payments for an extended period.)
Likely Loans has sent me the information Mr W entered when he applied  for the loan. I see 
Mr W applied  for a loan of £2,500 over 12 months  to consolidate borrowing. He told Likely  
Loans his gross income was £45,000 a year,  and that he was employed and living with his 
parents.
Likely Loans says it used this information  together with information  it received from a credit  
reference agency. Ive taken a look at this. It showed that Mr W had six open  credit 
accounts, with total debt of £2,500.
So based  on what Ive seen, Mr W told Likely Loans  he had a high income  and this is 
confirmed by the bank statements hes sent us. He said he planned to use this loan to 
consolidate debts,  and based on the information  Likely Loans had about Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time the amount he was borrowing was enough to repay his existing  
debts in full.
Im not persuaded that the information  in Mr Ws application or in the information Likely 
Loans received  from the credit reference  agency would have alerted them  to the need  to 
carry out further checks of Mr Ws circumstances. And based on what  Mr W and the credit  
reference agency told Likely Loans about his circumstances,  I dont think the decision  to lend 
money to Mr W was an unfair one.
Ive considered the further points Mr W has raised. He feels  that if Likely Loans had carried 
out a full analysis of his credit file it ought to have realised he was in financial  difficulties. I 
can see why, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr W feels this way. But it looks like Mr W applied  
for a number of other loans and credit  cards around the point Mr W applied for this loan  
and based on the amount shown on Likely Loanss  records it doesnt look as though these 
were visible on his credit file at the time he applied  for this loan. 
I appreciate that Mr W says he was in financial difficulties  and I acknowledge that his bank 
statements show he was spending  a large  part of his income,  particularly on gambling. And I 
dont doubt that Mr W has had a very difficult time.  But Likely Loans would only have  known 
about these if it had checked  his statements  and for the reasons Ive already explained, Im 
not persuaded that Likely Loans needed to do this, given what it already knew  about  his 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ref: DRN06256543ombudsman
Ref: DRN0625654