K822xcomplaint
Mr E is unhappy Santander  is failing to make the reasonable adjustments he requires for his 
disability. 
background 
Mr E is registered blind, although he can read large font. He can use a debit card with a PIN 
or signature,  and online banking. In addition to his sight impairment Mr E has health 
problems which make visiting  branches  difficult for him. He lives with family members  who 
are also in poor health. So he cannot  rely on them  for support, plus he values his 
independence. Since February 2018  Mr E has experienced problems using his debit cards 
and online banking, and with the format  of his bank statements.
Mr E experienced a number of issues with his cards. He was concerned about the fraud  
implication of a transaction being  approved without the store  assistant carefully checking his 
signature. When he needs  a new one, replacement cards take several days,  and he cant 
read the PINs  as the prints too small, so he cant access his money. He ended  up with 
several cards and PINs  for each  of his three accounts, so he didnt know  which one he 
should be using.  Santander explained  it reissued  the cards and PINs several times at Mr Es 
request. Sometimes  he requests a chip and signature card for use with a signature stamp,  
and sometimes chip  and PIN.  Santander  said signatures should be checked, but it cant  
control the actions  of retail staff.  Nonetheless, it apologised for the inconvenience and paid 
him £50. It later increased  the compensation to £70, to cover a taxi trip to his local branch  to 
get money for his rent. It also provided  him with online banking log-on credentials  in large 
font.
Mr E cant  read paper statements in standard font. So he asked Santander  to provide them  
in audio format, but this doesnt  always happen.  He sometimes  gets a paper statement in 
normal size font as well as a CD. And the CDs are often  delayed. 
Santander says it can provide  statements  in the format of Mr Es choice, but statement 
production is outsourced  to a third party.  So while it can send the statements in the correct  
format it cant  guarantee Mr E wont receive a normal  font statement  as well. Stopping the 
automatic despatch is on a best endeavours basis. And it has to use normal font for his 
name and address to fit within the window  on the envelope. 
Mr Es not happy about this as he cant read anything in standard  font. So he doesnt know 
which are statements, letters or other  correspondence. He cant distinguish his own mail 
from that of his family members. And he doesnt  want to get someone else to read his mail 
when it may concern personal financial information.  Because of this inconvenience he thinks 
he should receive more compensation.
Mr Es concerns were  initially reviewed  by one of our investigators who appreciated 
Santander had tried to make adjustments for Mr E. But she felt theyd  taken too long to 
resolve the problems,  causing him real inconvenience. So she suggested  Santander pay 
Mr E a further £200, which  it agreed to. But unfortunately Mr E continued  to experience  the 
same problems with receiving communications from Santander which  he cant read, 
including online banking credentials and PIN notifications. 
The case  was then passed to another investigator. Over many months shes liaised  between  
Mr E and Santander. To assist him, Santander provided Mr E with the direct contact details 
Ref: DRN04063672of an advisor in its executive office. But sometimes Mr E calls the general number which  can 
cause problems when  staff who arent  familiar with his case  get involved.  Our investigator 
thought Santander was trying hard to assist Mr E. And she thought  the additional £200 
recommended by the first investigator  was fair.
Mr E also experienced  problems with his debit card being blocked  when making  online 
purchases and being  sent fraud  disclaimer forms in normal size font which he cant read. 
These issues have been  dealt  with separately as they happened long after Santander  issued 
its final response on this complaint. So while  they are linked, those issues  arent specifically 
addressed in this decision. 
Due to the length of time this has been  going on Mr E feels  Santander  should  pay more  
compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our investigators. Let me explain  why.
Im sure Mr Es sight impairment makes his life very difficult at times. And I respect his right 
to privacy over his financial affairs and his reluctance  to rely on others  to assist him. But I 
can also see Santander has made what I think are reasonable adjustments to the way it 
communicates with him, which is in line with its duty to ensure disabled people  are not 
disadvantaged when accessing its services.  With this in mind, Ill now deal with the specifics  
of Mr Es complaint.
correspondence  not statements 
Mr E wants  most correspondence, including  PIN notifications and online banking credentials 
to be sent in no smaller  than size 16 font. But hed like his statements in audio format on a 
CD.  Ive seen evidence  these preferences are noted on Santanders systems, but 
compliance is dependent on members  of staff taking  the right steps. For example manually 
adjusting the font size, requesting the text of a letter be transferred to CD, or making sure a 
PIN notification is produced in large  font. Where theres an element of manual intervention, I 
think its reasonable to expect human  errors will occasionally arise.  For example, Santander  
sent its response to Mr Es complaint in normal font which  he couldnt read. But Mr E had 
already made a telephone  referral  to this service.  So while it was unfortunate, Mr E wasnt  
disadvantaged by receiving this letter. 
I can see Mr Es online banking  credentials  were successfully produced  in size 16 font. But 
due to concerns  about fraudulent transactions on his account, Mr Es requested  new 
credentials several times. For security reasons they come in two parts, and sometimes one 
passcode will be sent out in normal font. Mr E has experienced problems with post going 
missing or being intercepted which hes reported  to the Royal  Mail.  I cant  hold Santander 
responsible for problems  with the delivery  of his mail.  Mr Es designated point of contact in 
the executive office has personally taken responsibility for sending him a passcode in large  
font by signed for post to ensure it reaches him safely. But once it had arrived, someone in 
Mr Es household threw the code away. And Mr E subsequently said he didnt want  to 
receive signed  for post. I think Santander acted  fairly in these circumstances. 
statements 
Ref: DRN04063673Production of Santanders non-standard  format statements is outsourced to a third party  
company Ill call B. Santander sends  B the normal font statement which  it produces  in the 
customers preferred format (for example audio  CD). And then B despatches the original 
statement and CD to the customer together. B explained the statement is included for a 
number of reasons.  Its reluctant to take responsibility for the secure  destruction  of 
statements. So this way customers ensure theyre  safely destroyed  themselves. It saves  
customers being charged for copy statements  should they need them in the future, for 
example to support a mortgage application. And they can be useful for any third party 
assisting the customer, who might  find reading a statement  easier than audio or Braille. 
B confirmed  its approach  is in line with that of a leading charity for the sight impaired.  
As Mr E didnt want  to receive any normal font statements, Santander has asked  B to 
manually extract and destroy the statement  before sending out the CD. But B can only do 
this on a best endeavours basis as its not its usual process. To make this work Mr Es 
statement preferences must be noted  as special rather than audio. If Mr E speaks to 
someone other than his dedicated contact, the risk is the preferences  get changed to 
audio, without realising  the consequences. Mr E has three accounts, so its gone wrong a 
number of times. I dont  have the power  to require Santander or B to change  their 
processes, so its not possible to guarantee this wont happen, particularly if Mr E doesnt 
use his dedicated  contact point. But as this process  has now been  explained to Mr E, when 
he does receive a piece of paper  in the envelope  with the CD, hell know  its likely to be a 
statement. 
summary
This service isnt a regulator of the financial services industry, nor do we police compliance 
with the Equality Act or any other  legislation  covering disability. And my role isnt to penalise 
businesses for genuine  errors. In my opinion Santander has made reasonable adjustments  
in respect of its correspondence  with Mr E, and the way it provides him with statements of 
his account. It has provided  him with the name  and direct  contact  details of a member of 
staff, empowered to deal with his concerns. Inevitably they wont always  be available when 
Mr E calls.  But hes able to leave a message and she calls back. I think this is a further 
reasonable adjustment to ensure he speaks to someone who is familiar  with his situation  
without him needing to explain  everything  multiple times. But this arrangement will work best 
if both parties abide by it. This means Mr E should consider calling the contact, rather  than 
the general customer services helpline.
So whilst I understand Mr Es frustration, I think the £270 compensation suggested by our 
investigator, and already paid by Santander  is fair. And I won be asking it to pay anything  
further. 
Ref: DRN04063674my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  But I make  no award in addition to the £270 already paid by 
Santander UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0406367