K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable.
background
Mr H says he was offered a Vanquis  credit card in 2016 that was unaffordable. He says at 
the time he had two County Court Judgements (CCJs) recorded on his credit  file and debts 
of about £4.500 and was struggling financially.  Mr H says the lending was irresponsible  and 
would like all interest and fees refunded along  with 8% interest.
Vanquis says the lending  was appropriate and not irresponsible. It says the account was 
opened in November 2016  and Mr H declared an income of £25,000  a year and a household  
income that he had access  to of £48,000. Vanquis says one CCJ was recorded over a year 
before the application and a default was recorded on Mr Hs credit file again over a year 
before. It says it allowed a credit  limit of £500  and that Mr H managed  his account 
appropriately but it will speak to Mr H if he is in financial difficulties.
Mr H brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought Vanquis  had fairly considered that the CCJ and default were both over a year before 
the credit  card application. And that Mr H had access  to a household  income  of £48,000.  
The investigator thought Mr H had managed his account well and kept up with required 
payments.
Mr H disagreed with that view and so the investigator looked at the complaint again. The 
investigator came to the same overall  view that the lending was not irresponsible  or 
unaffordable.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says he shouldnt have been given credit by Vanquis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I accept Mr H will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I have looked  at Mr Hs application and can see that he declared an income of £25,000 with 
access to a total household income of £48,000. Im satisfied that Vanquis  carried  out 
appropriate and reasonable  credit checks on the application and fairly  concluded  that the 
relatively modest lending  of £500  was affordable.
I appreciate that Mr H had adverse information recorded on his credit  file but I can see that 
Vanquis took that information into consideration. And I can see that the adverse information 
was over 12 months old at the time of this application. So I dont think Vanquis made a 
mistake or acted unfairly  by concluding  that it was appropriate to lend in these 
circumstances.
I have looked  at Mr Hs account statements following the decision to lend. If the lending  was 
unaffordable then I would  have expected to have found evidence  of that in those statements. 
But Im satisfied the account was relatively  well run and that Mr H on the whole made the 
Ref: DRN06306572required monthly payments. So I also think that provides evidence  that the lending  was 
affordable and not irresponsible.
Overall Im satisfied that Vanquis fairly and reasonably considered  Mr Hs credit application 
and his past credit history  and that the lending of £500 was relatively low in relation to Mr Hs 
household income. So I cant fairly conclude the lending was unaffordable or irresponsible. 
And it follows that I cant order Vanquis to refund charges and interest  as Mr H would like. I 
can see that Vanquis has provided  details of its specialist debt team  to Mr H and no doubt 
he will consider contacting that team to discuss his position and options.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0630657