K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that London Capital Group  Ltd (LCG) should compensate  her for the losses 
she suffered on a fund she was invested  in between April 2009  and February  2010.  This 
fund traded on London Capital Groups currency platform.  
background
In April 2009 Mrs Bs Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) was being  managed  by an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). As part of the active management of the SIPP, the IFA 
invested around £19,000 in the Integrity Financial Solutions Limited Capital Forex Fund (the 
Integrity Fund). 
In February 2010,  Mrs Bs IFA sold her stake  in the fund, realising a loss of around £10,000. 
The arrangement between Integrity  Financial Solutions Limited and LCG involved clients  
opening accounts with LCG. Funds from clients who had invested  were to be managed  on a 
pooled basis  in a Master Account by Integrity Financial Solutions Limited. A manager would 
make the trading decisions, using LCGs  platform.  LCG would then execute the trades,  and 
enter the details of the spread bets and CFD trades on individual client  accounts. 
The arrangement changed and was refined  as things  moved  on. But the fund quickly  came 
into difficulties, and in October 2009  Integrity  Financial Services went into voluntary 
liquidation.  
An investor in the integrity fund (not Mrs B) brought a complaint to this service about LCG 
and its relationship with the managers of the Integrity fund. An ombudsman  issued  a 
decision in which he concluded  that London Capital  Group was partly responsible for the 
failings of the fund which led to a number of consumers losing their money. And he 
recommended LCG pay compensation.
In February 2017  Mrs B met with an IFA prior to taking  her retirement benefits and she was 
made aware  that this service had issued a decision on very similar circumstances  which 
upheld a complaint against LCG. So she complained against LCG.  
LCG didnt think Mrs Bs complaint had been made in time. I issued a jurisdiction decision in 
April 2018 in which I explained that I thought Mrs Bs complaint had been made within three  
years of when she knew, or shouldve  known, she had cause  for complaint. I considered  that 
Mrs Bs complaint was based on the findings of a previous decision issued by this service, 
and I wasnt persuaded that the extent  of the loss Mrs B had suffered on the Integrity fund 
ought to have made her aware  that she had cause for complaint  against LCG or that it might 
be responsible  in some way for those losses. 
Following my jurisdiction decision an investigator  wrote to LCG and explained that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  LCG continued  to disagree that the complaint  had been  made  
in time, and consequently  that it should  be upheld and asked for an ombudsman to decide 
the matter. 
It made  the following points which it asked me to consider:
I had found  that there was no direct relationship between Mrs B and LCG in my 
jurisdiction decision. This was different  to the previous decision issued by this 
Ref: DRN05237332service, in which we the consumer in that case had argued that LCG had a direct  
client relationship  with each client, and that LCG alone was the only party  
responsible for the account with whom the client  had a contractual relationship. 
It said in the previous  decision it was the direct  and close relationship  between  Mr L 
and LCG which led the Ombudsman  to conclude that LCG had a duty to treat him 
fairly and should therefore be answerable for all of Mr Ls losses. 
LCG said that, as a result, the facts underlying the jurisdiction decision precisely and 
significantly depart  from those retained in Mr Ls complaint. It said that if the 
relationship between Mrs B and LCG did not reach the necessary intensity and 
proximity to consider that she ought to have known that she had reason to complain, 
then I would not be able to find, on the merits, that [Mrs B] had a direct and close 
client relationship  and that both complaints are substantially identical  on the merits. It 
said that in such  a case, the previous decision issued by this service could not be 
applied to Mrs Bs complaint against LCG. 
On the other hand, if I concluded that Mrs B had a direct relationship with LCG, and 
thus LCG would be found answerable for the losses she suffered on the Integrity  
fund, that I would need to find that her complaint  had been brought  too late because 
she ought to have known she had cause  for complaint  more  than three  years  before 
she did so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is Mrs Bs complaint out of time?
Ive reconsidered  the issue of jurisdiction,  and whether or not I have  the power to consider 
Mrs Bs complaint. I should firstly say that my jurisdiction decision didnt conclude that Mrs B 
didnt have a direct client relationship with LCG. Its not in dispute  that she did. But LCG has 
argued that the extent of the loss ought  to have made Mrs B aware of her complaint  against 
LCG in 2010  and as she didnt complain until much later,  her complaint had been made 
too late. Thats the issue I decided  on, and its here that I disagree with LCG.  
In my jurisdiction decision I considered this, and concluded that there was nothing in the 
funds performance,  in particular the loss she suffered, which would have alerted Mrs B to 
the complaint  she has made about LCG.  Having reconsidered this point, Ive not been 
persuaded to change  my mind about this. I dont consider  the loss on the fund ought to have 
made Mrs B aware of LCGs role and responsibility  in the operation  of the Integrity fund. In 
particular, Im not persuaded Mrs B knew or shouldve known that LCG had concerns about  
the way the Integrity fund would be managed, or the likelihood that investors  would lose 
money, more than three years before her complaint. 
This was the key finding in the previous decision issued by this service  and the reason Mrs 
B considers she should also be compensated. So having reconsidered LCGs comments, 
including those it had made prior to my jurisdiction decision, I remain  satisfied that Mrs B 
only reasonably  knew she had cause for complaint against LCG when she was made  aware 
of this services previous  final decision, and the very specific reasons why this service held 
LCG responsible. And Im satisfied that Mrs B didnt know,  and couldnt reasonably have 
known, about  this services decision before she was told about  it by her representatives. 
Should Mrs Bs complaint  be upheld?
Ref: DRN05237333This service doesnt operate like the courts  so Im not bound by a previous ombudsmans 
decision. 
So, in principle its possible two ombudsmen might reach different conclusions on the same  
or similar circumstances.  
But Mrs Bs case  is specific  in that its not really her circumstances which  might  be the same 
as another complainants. Its the fund she was invested in, and how it was managed, which  
is identical to the previous  complaint  this service decided. It follows  that Ive taken those 
conclusions into account when reaching  my own decision  on Mrs Bs case. 
As mentioned earlier in this decision,  there were communications between Integrity Financial 
Solutions, the manager of the fund, and LCG prior to the Integrity fund going  live. And, once 
the service was launched, individual clients who had invested in the integrity fund would  also 
become customers of LCG, given  that it provided the platform for the fund managers to trade 
on (and, as it has told this service, was also counterparty to the trades). 
So as a starting point,  LCG was under an overriding  obligation to treat its clients fairly.  And I 
agree this extends to LCG not being  a party to an investment service  which,  for whatever 
reason, it didnt consider would result in its customers being treated  fairly.  
In the circumstances of the Integrity fund,  its clear that LCG had concerns around the very 
high charges which the Integrity fund would  likely  incur. The evidence included  an email from 
the Chief Financial  Officer  of LCG to the Chief Executive Officer of Integrity in March  2009 
said:
to turn a trade into a spread bet we just take the price your trader has entered  the bet and 
either add or subtract 2 pipsYour traders buying and selling 150 times a day is pointless 
as this translates  into 600 pips for LCG and I really cannot believe that a spot trader will 
make this type of money
It also included another email from LCG to integrity in June  2009  which  said:
As we originally stated  when we first set up the pip mark up 2.5 pips was an amount far 
above what we considered a reasonable mark up and with the current levels of volume this 
amount is now totally unreasonable
Given these emails, it seems LCG did have concerns around the operation  of the fund,  and 
consequently ought to have had concerns around whether its customers (who  had invested 
in the Integrity  fund) would receive a fair deal. 
Im satisfied that given  these concerns,  LCG should only have gone  ahead with the 
arrangement it had with Integrity after it was satisfied these issues  had been put right.  But 
that didnt happen. 
In my view, therefore, the conclusions reached in a previous decision that this arrangement 
was flawed from the outset were  fair and reasonable.  And given the above, Im satisfied this 
remains true in Mrs Bs case. I think there was a high risk of the arrangement  not functioning 
as intended, and of clients making  significant losses primarily  as a result of very high 
charges. This is indeed  what happened. 
Ref: DRN05237334And so I think LCG shouldnt have  agreed  to provide this particular service  until it was 
assured its clients would be treated fairly.  And therefore, it was essentially a joint party  to the 
launch of a faulty investment service,  which caused its clients financial losses.  In my view,  
this means that notwithstanding the fact that LCG wasnt responsible  for advising clients to 
invest in the Integrity  fund, or making any of the investment decisions, it had joint 
responsibility for the losses  its clients suffered  from the faulty operation  of the Integrity fund. 
So in Mrs Bs case, Im satisfied this means LCG is responsible for putting  matters right for 
her and in the way described by the investigator. 
putting things  right
In order to put things  right, LCG should:
Calculate the total amount Mrs B invested  in the Integrity  Fund, 
Deduct from this the closing value of the account plus the sum of any withdrawals 
made, 
Pay Mrs B the difference. LCG should pay simple interest to the above sum at the 
rate of 8% per year simple  from the time the closing value was repaid to Mrs B, to the 
date of settlement.  If LCG believes its legally obliged to deduct  tax from this interest, 
it should send  a tax deduction  certificate  with the payment. Mrs B may then be able 
to reclaim any tax overpaid  from HMRC, depending on the circumstances. 
My decision  is that London  Capital Group Limited  should pay Mrs B the amount produced by 
that calculation.  London Capital Group Limited should  provide details of its calculation to Mrs 
B in a clear, simple format.
I understand that Mrs B has already taken her retirement benefits, which means  the amount 
cannot be paid into her SIPP. Therefore the redress payment  should  be made to Mrs B but 
the payment should be reduced to allow for the tax that she would have otherwise paid. 
my final decision
My final decision is that London Capital Group Limited must pay the compensation Ive 
outlined above  within 28 days of when we tell it Mrs B has accepted  my decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0523733