K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that HSBC Bank Plc took £1,000 from her when she asked it to exchange  
cash in £20 notes  for cash  in £50 notes. 
background
Mrs F says that she went to her local branch of HSBC,  where  she holds accounts, to 
exchange £2,000 in £20 notes into £50 notes. She wanted the larger  denominations as she 
was going abroad and thought it would be easier  to exchange them.  Shes explained that 
she counted the money  before she went to the branch  100 £20 notes  and placed it in an 
envelope and wrote £2,000  on it. 
When she got to the branch Mrs F handed the envelope to the cashier  and told her that 
there was £2,000 in it and that she wanted  to change it for £50 notes. The cashier  said 
however that she only had £600 in £50 notes,  so she would change that much and leave the 
balance in £20 notes. 
When the cashier checked the money  in the envelope, however, she said there  was only 
£1,000 in it, not £2,000.  So she returned  it, having swapped thirty  £20 notes for twelve £50 
notes. 
Mrs F was however adamant that she took £2,000 to the branch, in the envelope. She asked 
that security footage  be checked. The bank looked at the security  footage,  which, it said,  
clearly showed the cashier counting out only £1,000.  It also said it showed  Mrs F with two 
envelopes and that she went to a cash deposit machine where she tried unsuccessfully to 
pay money in. The bank would not, however, let Mrs F see that footage  and says that it has 
been accidentally  deleted.       
Mrs F believes that at least two cashiers conspired  to take £1,000 from her and to conceal 
what they were doing. She has described  in some detail their actions and how they 
distracted her by asking  about her trip abroad. 
Mrs F referred the matter  to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. She 
didnt think, however, that HSBC had taken money  from Mrs F. She thought it more likely  
that Mrs F was mistaken in believing there was £2,000 in the envelope. Mrs F didnt accept 
what the investigator concluded  and asked that an ombudsman review the case.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Its unfortunate that the security  footage  that the bank reviewed is no longer available.  It 
would certainly have been more  helpful  in establishing what happened than the banks 
account of what  it showed.  I have however considered the evidence that is available. 
HSBC says that its own tills balanced on the day in question. That is, however, consistent 
with what Mrs F says happened. If a cashier  simply  stole  £1,000  from her cash  deposit and 
didnt record it, the tills would balance. So that fact is of limited  assistance. 
Ref: DRN03264152I do however find Mrs Fs account of what happened quite unlikely. She says,  in effect, that 
two cashiers conspired to take money from her and that, having done  so, they managed  to 
take exactly £1,000 in front of a camera that was recording what  was happening. If Mrs F is 
correct, it also means that a third member of staff checked what had happened on the 
security footage but chose to ignore criminal behaviour and delete the evidence. It would 
also mean that a number  of staff would have  had to be prepared  to take money from 
someone seeking to exchange or deposit cash. They  wouldnt however  have  known 
beforehand that Mrs F, or anyone else for that matter, would be seeking  to do that. It would 
have been extremely  difficult to plan and execute.  
The report  of the security footage notes that Mrs F had two envelopes with her and that she 
tried to deposit cash after shed been to the till. Mrs F accepts that, and I think its likely that 
this explains why the envelope  she handed  to the cashier contained less cash  than she 
thought it did  and less than the £2,000 written on it.
Mrs F also says that the cashier tried to distract her by talking about  her trip abroad.  I accept  
however that the reason  for that conversation was that HSBC  was noting that Mrs Fs cards  
might be used abroad; thats not unusual. I also note that Mrs F acknowledges that she was 
told at the time that the envelope contained only £1,000. In the circumstances, I might have 
expected her to resolve that issue before she tried to use the cash deposit  machine and 
before she left the branch.  She says she didnt  do so because  she felt she was in the 
company of dangerous people who had stolen money from her. Had she felt that at the time, 
however, I think she would probably have approached the police almost immediately. 
Ive no reason to think Mrs F doesnt  genuinely  believe  that her money has been taken from 
her. Im afraid though  that I think shes mistaken in that belief. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require HBSC Bank Plc to 
take any further steps to resolve Mrs Fs complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0326415