K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (trading  as Tesco  Bank)  sent a large print 
credit card statement late which meant he made a payment late. 
background
Mr S has a credit card account with Tesco Bank. Each month he needs to make a minimum 
payment by a certain date to keep  his account  up-to-date. Since opening  the account in 
May 2018 his statements have been sent - at his request  - in large  print, as well as in 
standard print.
On 25 August 2018 a statement was produced saying  Mr S needed to make  a payment by 
14 September 2018. A payment wasnt received until 17 September  2018. Mr S contacted  
Tesco Bank to say he was late with the payment because his large print statement was late. 
He was unhappy a promotional interest rate had been removed and he felt hed been  treated 
unfairly. Tesco Bank agreed to refund the late payment fee and reinstate the promotional  
interest rate. Mr S remained unhappy so he complained.  Tesco Bank didnt think  it had done 
anything wrong. 
The complaint was brought to this service. The investigator thought Tesco  Bank had acted 
reasonably. Mr S didnt  agree, saying Tesco Bank sends large print statements  late all the 
time and it only agreed to refund  the fee and reinstate the promotional  interest rate because 
he was persistent about asking it to do so. The complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I accept Mr S received  the August 2018 large  print statement late. But the terms and 
conditions of his Tesco Bank credit  card account  say he must always pay the minimum 
payment each month by the due date. So I think he was required  to make a payment on 
time, even  if his statement was late. 
In any case, from May to August  2018  Mr S made his minimum payment by faster  payment. 
These payments  werent for the minimum payment or to pay off the balance in full. They  
were two £50 payments  each month  in May,  June  and July, and a £60 payment in August. 
So I dont  think Mr Ss decision about how much to pay was dependent on the information 
detailed on his statements.  And Mr S could have found statement information by another  
means, for example by calling Tesco  Bank or using internet banking. 
Additionally, the August 2018  statement, produced  on 25 August 2018,  said Mr S needed to 
pay £33 by 14 September 2018. Mr S says this statement arrived about 10 days  late - so on 
roughly 4 September 2018. This left 10 days for him to make  a payment, which was 
sufficient for a faster payment to credit  the account.  Mr S didnt  make  a faster payment as 
usual. Instead  he sent six cheques for £10 each.  The value of these  didnt credit  Mr Ss 
account until 17 September   three  days after the due date. 
Overall, I dont  think Tesco Bank is responsible for Mr S making  a late payment. So I think  it 
was entitled to apply a late payment fee, remove the promotional interest rate and record a 
late payment with the credit reference  agencies.  
Ref: DRN01545272Following contact from Mr S, Tesco Bank  refunded the fee and reinstated  the promotional 
interest rate. Its also said this matter hasnt been reported to the credit reference agencies.  I 
accept what Mr S says about this only happening because he was persistent in asking 
Tesco Bank to do it. But as Ive said, I dont think Tesco Bank was responsible for the late 
payment, so I dont  think it needed  to do anything. It follows  that I think  by doing what it did, 
Tesco Bank treated  Mr S fairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before date.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0154527