K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  charged  him
unfairly for damage to a car after he voluntary terminated a hire purchase agreement.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision. I 
invited both parties to make any further  submissions by 19 January 2020  before I finalised 
matters.
Mr H and VWFS both responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision,  I have  no reason to change my mind. For 
the reasons Ive given in my provisional  findings, I dont uphold this complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03647102copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) charged him
unfairly for damage  to a car after he voluntary  terminated a hire purchase agreement.
background
Mr H acquired a car from VWFS through a hire purchase agreement in 2015 and voluntary
terminated the agreement in July 2018. Mr H says he wasnt able to arrange  a suitable time
for the vehicle to be inspected due to work commitments, so he says he was asked to return
the car to the dealership instead. On return of the car to the dealership, an inspection was
carried out on it. The report highlighted several  areas of damage  to the car and a missing
alloy wheel key.
Mr H disputed the amount  of damage he was being charged for and doesnt think the
damages were on the car when  he left it at the dealership. Mr H is also unhappy he wasnt
able to challenge the report of the damages and that he wasnt able to arrange to repair any
damage he felt he was responsible  for.
VWFS said the car had been assessed in line with the guidelines set by the British Vehicle
Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) as to what they would consider  to be fair wear and
tear. Following receipt of the inspection report, VWFS  agreed to waive some charges
completely and also agreed to reduce the cost of some of the damage which resulted  in the
total repair  cost being £830.14 (inc VAT).
Our adjudicator looked  into this complaint. She reviewed  the information of the damage
VWFS wanted to charge  for, including  the video evidence Mr H sent in of when he dropped
the car off at the dealership. She concluded the charges VWFS applied for the damage were
fair and that there was nothing to show the damages were caused by the dealership.  She
also said that she didnt think Mr H not being  present at the time of the inspection influenced
the outcome of the report and that if Mr H did want to repair the damages himself; he
couldve contacted  the dealership.
Mr H disagreed. Mr H remained  of the opinion  that the damage  happened when he returned
the car to the dealership and wasnt done by him. He also says he should have had the opportunity to 
dispute any damage before  the car was collected. So the complaint has been
passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was charged for the following items of damage (taken from the vehicle inspection
report):
1.Alloy wheel key Missing Replace £150
2.Front - bumper Broken Replace £433.78
3.Left side rear  QTR  panel Dent over 10mm Cold metal
repair£36
4.Right side rear  QTR  panel Dent over 10mm Repair and
refinishReduced from
£138 to £36
5.Rear - tailgate Dent over 10mm Repair and
refinishReduced from
£138 to £36
 (all charges  above exclude VAT)
Ref: DRN03647103Mr Hs finance agreement includes a clause  which  says you will be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and 
mileage of the vehicle.
The BVRLA  has produced  industry  guidance  to help determine  what a finance company can charge  
for when a car is returned. This is the starting point for me as it represents good practice  across the 
industry and is fairly  detailed. So Ive taken this guidance into account when deciding whether VWFS 
acted fairly and reasonably  in the charges they applied.  Ive looked  at the photos  of the damage from 
the inspection report provided by VWFS  and make the following findings on the items of damages 
from the above table:
1. Ill go on to consider below whether the alloy wheel key was left by Mr H when  he dropped of the 
vehicle for inspection, as this isnt a matter of deciding whether this issue is due to fair wear and tear 
 its whether it was present  at the point the vehicle  was dropped off.
2. The photos in the report show a dent and scratches on the front bumper. I can see this damage is 
in excess of the accepted level of damage in the BVRLA guidance  as the scratch appears  to be more 
than 25mm  and the dent appears to be more than 10mm in diameter. So I think  VWFS have fairly  
charged for this and I dont think  the amount  being charged  is unreasonable in this instance given  the 
size of the dent and the scratches.
3. The dent is quite clearly  visible from the photo and I can see the ruler against the damage shows 
its over 10mm in diameter.  So I think VWFS  fairly  charged for this item of damage.
4. VWFS  say the dent here is over 10mm. For the same reasons Ive given above,  I think  VWFS have 
fairly charged for this item of damage.
5. Lastly,  VWFS say the dent on the tailgate is over 10mm.  I dont think  the photo in the inspection 
report of this damage is very clear   I cant say whether  this is actually a dent on the tailgate or 
whether this is down to the light reflecting  off the tailgate at the time the photo was taken. However,  a 
video, which I discuss in more detail later on, persuades me the distortion on the tailgate is a dent 
rather than a reflection of the light. And I consider this damage to fall outside of the fair wear  and tear 
guidelines.
was the damage  to the car caused by Mr H? And was the alloy wheel  key returned by Mr H?
Ive looked at the video Mr H has sent to us showing the inside of the car and around the car when Mr 
H leaves it at the dealership.  Mr H has relied on this video  as evidence to show the condition of the 
car at the point he left it with the dealership for inspection.
When Mr H pans round  the inside of the car, he doesnt linger over the cup holder  where he says he 
left the alloy wheel key. From looking  carefully  at this, I cant see the key from the angle Mr H pans 
over the cup holder. In the video, I can see Mr H takes some time to show he was returning various 
documentation along with the car and he also shows hes returning the SD card. So even if I accept  
the video doesnt  clearly  show  the alloy wheel key in the cup holder,  it seems  likely to me that had Mr 
H returned the alloy wheel  key he would have specifically shown this too, as he did with the other 
items. I also dont think it likely if he did return the key that it was lost in the days  the car was waiting  
for the inspection.
Based on the evidence I have, I cant reasonably say that Mr H did leave the alloy wheel key in the 
cup holder  like he said.  The BVRLA indicates that a full set of keys, including the spares  and locking  
wheel-nut keys,  should be returned if originally  supplied. As the alloy key wasnt returned, I think its 
fair for VWFS  to apply a charge for this.
Ive also considered the other damages VWFS has charged  for and Ive also thought  about  what  Mr H 
has said that the car didnt have any damages when he dropped it off at the dealership. Firstly, from 
Ref: DRN03647104the video evidence, I cant see the damage to the front bumper because Mr H doesnt show this area. 
I also think  the video doesnt  conclusively  show the damage left rear QTR panel  as Mr H also doesnt 
pan the camera to this area.
Secondly, as Ive explained  above,  the photo  of the tailgate damage isnt enough on its own for me to 
say this damage was there. But taken in conjunction with the video,  Im satisfied the distortion, as 
seen in the photo, is a dent. And Im persuaded  the damage  was there when  Mr H dropped the car 
off. I say this because the video  shows the dealership advisor pointing out some damage to the 
tailgate, which  Mr H accepts was there.
I note Mr H then says to the dealership advisor  in response to him pointing out the damage, that this 
damage was on the car when he first acquired it. And I note Mr H also told us there was no damage 
to the car when he dropped  it off. But the video shows there was some damage, albeit  not all of the 
damage VWFS have charged for, this calls in to question the reliability of Mr Hs recollection of the 
condition of the car at the time. So, whilst  I may not be able to see some of the damages in the video, 
Im not persuaded  by Mr Hs testimony in relation to when he thinks  the damage was caused.
When Mr H acquired the car in 2015, it was brand new. So on balance, I think its unlikely the car had 
any damages at that point.  If there was any damage to the car like Mr H says there was, I think  its 
reasonable to believe Mr H would have raised this with VWFS at the time. So whilst I acknowledge 
what Mr H says, theres not enough evidence  for me to say the car had any damages at the point Mr 
H acquired the car.
Ive also thought  about  other aspects, such as mileage  done  on the car at the time of inspection, 
where the car was left between when  it was dropped off to the when  the inspection  was carried out, to 
decide whether I think it likely the damage happened whilst the car was left at the dealership.  Or 
whether the damage  was caused by Mr H.
The report shows the car had done around 61,000 miles  at the time of inspection.  Ive considered 
whether the car was moved during the time it was left with the dealership and the collection date. Im 
not persuaded  to believe  the car was moved after Mr H dropped it off to the dealership.  The reason I 
say this is because the surrounding area appears to be the same in Mr Hs video and in the photos of 
the car in the inspection report. So I dont think the damage  was caused during the time Mr Hs car 
was left at the dealership.
Based on all the information I have, I think its more likely the damage to the car was caused by Mr H. 
So I think its fair for VWFS to charge  Mr H for the damage.
did VWFS give Mr H the chance to repair any damages he felt he was responsible  for
himself?
VWFS have sent us a copy of the voluntary termination pack that was sent to Mr H prior to 
proceeding with the voluntary termination, which Ive carefully looked  at. I can see it says
inspection and collections are arranged on separate dates to allow you the opportunity  to carry  out 
remedial work  following  the inspection. If you choose to carry out remedial work prior to collection of 
your vehicle, these repairs must be done by an approved repairer in line with the terms and conditions 
of your agreement.
VWFS also sent us a copy  of the letter that was sent to Mr H confirming his agreement had been 
terminated. In this letter,  they let Mr H know that he can contact their collection agents directly to 
arrange a suitable date for an independent inspection  and collection  of the car.
The collection  agents have sent me two call recordings of their conversation with Mr H. In the first call, 
Mr H was given two options for returning the car - it could either be collected from his home  or from 
the dealership  on a weekday. Mr H asked  if an afternoon slot for his car to be collected was available. 
But the collection agents said it wasnt. Mr H said he didnt want  to take a day off work  to allow for the 
car to be collected, so he agreed  to leave  the car at the dealership.  The collection agents advised Mr 
Ref: DRN03647105H to contact his local dealership to see if they had enough space on the compound  to leave  his car 
there. Mr H then calls the collection agents again on 23 July 2018 to let them know that hed dropped 
the car off at the dealership. Mr H agreed during this phone call for the inspection  to be done on          
2 August 2018 and for the collection to be on 3 August  2018.
I note Mr Hs comment that he wasnt given  the opportunity to challenge any of the damages he was 
going to be charged for. And I appreciate Mr H wasnt told that leaving his car at the dealership may 
result in the inspection being carried without him present. But Mr H was aware of the date the 
inspection was taking  place as hed agreed this with the collection agents.  So I think he couldve 
asked to attend the inspection if he wanted to be present.  And I think  Mr H couldve contacted the 
dealership after the inspection  date to find out the result of the inspection.
The voluntary termination  pack that was sent to Mr H made it clear  that separate dates are arranged  
to allow Mr H the opportunity  to carry out remedial  work following the inspection. From  listening to the 
call between the business collection agents and Mr H I think  they couldve made  it clear that Mr H 
could leave it longer between the inspection  and collection date to allow for more  time for Mr H to 
review any damages being charged  Mr H asked the collection agents during one of his calls with 
them if they would let him know if they find any issues with the car and the agent said yes. But I cant  
see any evidence  to show me they did let Mr H know of the issues until the invoice of charges  was 
sent to Mr H. Its VWFS policy to give consumers time and the opportunity to remedy any issues with 
the car themselves. As VWFS didnt do this, I dont think they acted fairly.
However, even if I dont  think that VWFS  acted fairly  in light of their policy, taking into consideration 
the reduction in cost VWFS applied to some of the charges, I dont think VWFS  need to do anything 
more. Mr H hasnt shown  he would have  been  able to get the repairs done at a cheaper cost and to 
the standard required.
I note Mr H has said that he couldve  repaired any damage at a lower cost than what  VWFS  charged.  
I can see the voluntary termination pack VWFS  sent to Mr H included a list of damage charges. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr H had enough  information  about that charges that 
could be applied to get any damage fixed before dropping the car off for inspection. And based on 
what Ive seen  I think its more likely than not the damage to the car was caused by Mr H.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN0364710