K822xcomplaint
Mrs K1 complains, as the executor of the estate of Mrs K, that Simpsons Wealth  
Management LLP failed to link Mrs Ks account with other family members  and failed to 
check the book  costs of her investments.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which  I made the following findings:
It was reasonable  to expect the adviser to understand  the benefit of linking accounts 
whether they were  setting up an account  for a new client or taking over existing 
accounts.
In its letter to Mrs K1 dated  21 July 2017 Simpsons said it had adopted a strategy of 
encashing funds  where the base cost were  known so that CGT could be avoided or 
kept as low as possible.
Given this strategy  it was reasonable to expect  the adviser to have checked the book 
costs - as there was some evidence these  werent accurate and he didnt have all the 
book costs anyway.
Simpsons hadnt provided the new adviser  with all the information needed so that a 
further unnecessary  CGT charge was incurred and should  pay this.
I didnt think Simpsons should  repay  all the fees it had been paid as I thought that 
would potentially make  Mrs K better off.
Mrs K1 responded  and argued  that Simpsons should still repay the fees.  Simpsons 
responded and made the following points:
It didnt ignore the fact it didnt have the original book costs  for some of the 
investments because it had agreed  a revised  strategy with Mrs K1 where it would sell 
the more risky investments first to meet the high care costs for Mrs K.
Mrs K1 agreed the strategy and said her accountant would deal with the CGT 
reporting to HMRC.
As far as it was concerned, once it had to start selling shares where  it didnt know  the 
book costs its responsibility for selling the shares in a tax efficient manner was 
replaced with a strategy of reducing  the investment risks within  the portfolio.
Paying the difference between the CGT  actually paid and what  wouldve been  paid if 
it had obtained  the necessary information about book costs potentially  puts Mrs K in 
a better  position than she wouldve been in. This is because  Mrs K had no choice but 
to sell assets to pay her care fees and Mrs K1s overriding  requirement  was to 
ensure that the regular encashments were arranged to cover Mrs Ks care fees and 
at the same time reduce  the risks that were being taken within her portfolio.
I issued a further provisional decision  in which I made the following findings:
Simpsons hadnt said anything about  the finding  in my first provisional  decision that it 
shouldve linked  the accounts  so my finding on this remains  the same.
Simpsons acknowledges there was a strategy to sell investments  where  the book 
costs were known to avoid or limit CGT.
Simpsons argues there was a revised strategy to sell higher risk investments once 
they started to sell investments where  the book costs werent  known but there 
wouldve been no need for a revised  strategy if it had found out the book costs.
Ref: DRN02314202If it had found out the book costs for all the investments it wouldve continued with the 
original strategy.
I dont accept the CGT liability wouldve been the same whether the book costs were  
known or not, as Simpsons argues, as it is more likely than not different investments 
wouldve been sold to minimise the CGT liability if the book costs were  known.
Mrs K wouldve  had to pay fees if no mistakes  had been made and asking Simpsons 
to repay  fees would put her in a better positions  than she wouldve been in if no 
mistake had been made.
Some costs may have been incurred in finding out book costs  through  the new 
adviser but these  are costs that wouldve  been incurred anyway if Simpsons had 
carried out this work.  In the circumstances Im not persuaded it should  pay those 
costs.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my second  provisional decision. 
Simpsons provided  no further information  and Mrs K1 agreed with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given I have been given no further information that would lead me to change  my  decision 
my findings  remain the same as set out in my provisional decisions as does the redress  
payable which I set out below. 
What Simpsons  should do to put things  right
Simpsons should  find out from the platform what Mrs K paid in management fees and 
commission on trades that would not have been  paid, if her account  had been linked to both 
Mrs K1s and Mrs K1s husbands account - from when  she first instructed it to the date her 
account was actually linked by her new adviser.  It should pay this to Mrs Ks estate and 
provide evidence of its calculations,  including  any evidence  from the platform, to Mrs K1, to 
show how it has arrived at the figure  it calculates is payable.  
If the platform cant or wont provide the information  then I think it would be reasonable for 
Simpsons to pay an appropriate proportion of the overall cost of the accounts not being 
linked - which Mrs K1 has obtained  - based on the value of each persons investments.
Simpsons also has to pay the difference between the CGT payable based  on the assets it 
sold on her behalf  and the CGT she wouldve had to pay if it had obtained the relevant 
information about the actual book costs of her investments and applied the strategy referred 
to in its letter of 21 July 2017. Mrs K1 will have  to provide the book costs to Simpsons so that 
it can calculate what is due. It should  also pay any CGT liability  arising from not having 
provided the new adviser with all the information  he needed about Mrs Ks investments.
Mrs K1 has also referred to penalties  and interest  that may be payable because  the wrong 
information was provided to HMRC about  gains.  I think  Simpsons should also pay any 
penalty or interest payment  Mrs K has to pay that wouldnt have been incurred but for the 
adviser not checking the book costs  and/or  not providing information about the AIM portfolio. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN02314203I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and Simpsons Wealth  
Management LLP has to calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K1 as 
executor of the estate of Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0231420