K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited,  trading as Argos Card  
Services (Argos) are responsible under section 75 Consumer Credit Act (1974) for damage  
to his kitchen  when a cooker  was fitted.
background
In February 2018  Mr H ordered a new cooker from a company Ill call H. He paid for the 
product through his Argos account.  But unfortunately the installer caused some damage to 
the kitchen worktop  which was chipped when he levered the cooker out. He also left the 
junction box wires exposed.
So Mr H complained to Argos. He said that, as the finance provider, they were jointly  
responsible for the issue under section 75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974) (s75). He wanted 
them to repair the kitchen to an acceptable  standard but explained that, as the original  
equipment manufacturer was no longer trading, it would be difficult  to match colours and the 
best quote he had for the work was almost  £9,000.
Argos didnt think this was a reasonable quote  given  the damage that had been incurred. 
They offered  Mr H £75 to compensate him for the inconvenience  hed experienced as they 
noted hed been without  cooking facilities for a few days.
But Mr H wasnt  satisfied by their response  and he asked our service to help settle  his 
dispute. Our investigator  didnt think it would be proportionate to ask Argos  to pay in the 
region of £9,000 for the limited damage  hed seen evidence of. He talked to Argos and they 
agreed to pay Mr H £250 in settlement of the matter. The investigator  thought  this was 
reasonable in the circumstances, especially as hed already  been  refunded  the cost of the 
cooker; had been  paid £206 by H and received a further £75 to compensate  for the lost 
cooking facilities.
But Mr H was still dissatisfied and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit,  it 
might be possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 claim.  This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances,  a finance provider can be 
responsible for a breach  of contract  or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Ref: DRN04122292Theres clearly  been  a breach of contract  here as theres no dispute that damage was done 
when the cooker,  Mr H bought using a credit  facility provided by Argos, was fitted.
So Argos  has accepted  their joint responsibility  for the damage thats occurred. Its fair to put 
Mr H back in the position he wouldve been  in if the incident hadnt happened.  To do that we 
would need to be provided  with reasonable quotes for the work. But Mr H has struggled to 
get suppliers to provide those and I cant expect  Argos to provide alternative quotations as 
theyre not involved in that sort of business:  its not their area of expertise
I dont think that the quote we currently have for nearly £9,000  is proportionate  given  the 
damage thats been sustained. Ive looked  at the pictures Mr H has provided  and Im 
persuaded that the £250 now offered  by Argos is fair in the circumstances. Especially as 
hes already received a refund for the cooker; an additional payment from H for the wiring 
concerns and a payment of £75 to compensate him for the inconvenience of having  no 
cooking facilities. But I wont be asking Argos  to pay any more  than £250.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Home  Retail  Group 
Card Services Limited to pay Mr H £250  to compensate him for the damage  thats  been  
incurred. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0412229