K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-
Benz Finance, has breached data protection  rules in relation to her hire purchase 
agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs A under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Finance that she signed in March 2016.  She made an early settlement payment of 
£16,691.37 in March  2019 to end her agreement.  Mercedes-Benz Finance sent her an 
e-mail confirming receipt of the card payment  but due to a system error the car registration 
number and model for another customer were shown on the receipt. 
Mrs A complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance  that there had been a data protection breach. 
It said that it had reviewed Mrs As account and the other customer's account and no 
personal data has been  revealed or put at risk regarding  either  party. Mrs A wasnt  satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the only 
information that was disclosed was with respect to the model and registration number of the 
car. He said that Mercedes-Benz Finance  had tried to make amends by apologising and 
explaining that no other information was disclosed and that, apart from a clerical error  due to 
its system, it hadnt acted  unfairly.
Mrs A has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that she suffers from medical  issues which were exacerbated by the data 
protection breach so she had to take time off work and that her husband also had to take 
time off work to look after her - so she should  receive compensation for that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mercedes-Benz Finance accepts that after Mrs A settled her agreement it sent her a 
confirmation e-mail which stated another customer's car registration number and model with 
her agreement number.  It says that a system error  caused its system to generate the 
incorrect information but both accounts  had been reviewed and no confidential information 
had been shared with either  party. It says that the registration number and model  of the car 
isnt sensitive data so the other partys data hasnt been put at risk and that it had checked 
the other customer's  account and none  of Mrs A's data had been shared with it.
Mrs A has described her circumstances  including her medical issues  and the effect that 
she says that the incorrect information has had on her and her husband.  I sympathise with 
Mrs A for her medical issues and the difficulties that she says shes  been caused.
Its clear that Mercedes-Benz Finance included another  customers  car registration number 
and model on the e-mail that was sent to Mrs A. Although it shouldnt have done that, its 
explained that it was the result of a system  error, that Mrs As data wasnt  shared with the 
other customer and that no sensitive  data has been shared. 
Ref: DRN09854852Im not persuaded that an award of compensation is justified in these circumstances. So I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz Finance to take 
any action in response to Mrs As complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0985485