K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr K bought the PPI in 1999 whilst  applying,  by post, for a new credit card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  The 
complaint has since  been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Mr K says the PPI was added without his permission. But these events are from 1999 and I 
was sent a copy of his credit card application. 
I can see the credit card application form gave an obvious choice to either have, or not 
have, the PPI, underneath  a heading  which said Extra Optional Services. Mr K signed  his 
name next to a declaration about Cardholder Payment Protection  to add the PPI policy. He 
also signed the application  form at the bottom. 
I also think Mr Ks recollection about  never knowing he had PPI cant  be right either, 
although I accept  he may have genuinely forgotten after so long. This is because  Tesco  
sent me copies of his credit cards  statements  which show he was being charged  for 
Cardholder Protection Plan. The costs were shown  next to this description and I think  if 
hed never  asked for this PPI, he would have  wanted to know  what  the charges were for.
So Im afraid  I think there is strong and persuasive evidence he agreed to the policy.  And 
he would  have been able to see it had been  set up on his account.
I note this was a postal  application and therefore not an advised sale. So Tesco didnt need 
to make sure the policy was suitable for him and the decision about buying  the cover  was for 
Mr K to make. He would have made his way through the postal  form without any intervention  
from Tesco. 
My experience of these  types of sale is that the application  was part of a wider  leaflet  based  
form which would have  also included some  brief details about the policy,  including the cost.  
So I think Mr K would have had enough  information  on which to make an informed decision. 
I can see ways in which the form could have been set out more  clearly but I dont  think  
theres enough evidence to say this would have changed what Mr K went  on to do.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Ks situation  and I think he was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types  of policy.  Looking  at 
the work  he did, I agree that any sickness protection  he had with his job would have been 
Ref: DRN00808352reasonable. But this doesnt mean  the PPI cover wasnt of value to him. It would  have paid 
out 10% of his outstanding credit  card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim. This 
wouldve been in addition to any other means  he had at that time. So I think  this policy was 
of use.
Ive also considered all the other things Mr K told us about his circumstances and Im sorry 
to disappoint him, but I think the evidence  clearly shows  he chose the policy  himself  and in 
his own time. He would  have been  able to see it wasnt something he needed  to have. He 
would have also subsequently been  to able see his credit card statements were showing PPI 
being charged on them.
This means  Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0080835