K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained  because Nationwide Building Society gave  them incorrect
information about the early repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage. They  want the 
society to honour what it incorrectly told them.
Background
Mr and Mrs G took out a Nationwide mortgage  in October 2015. They chose  a five year
product with a fixed interest rate of 2.34% up to the end of October 2020.
Section 10 of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  offer set out What happens if you do not want  this
mortgage any more? It said that Early repayment charges are payable on this mortgage
for the first 60 months after the end of the month  in which you take the loan. The amounts
Mr and Mrs G would have to pay were  set out as 5% of the amount repaid during the first
year, reducing each  year down to 1% of the amount  repaid during the last year.
The mortgage also had an overpayment facility, which was set out in section 11 of the
mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs G could make  overpayments  of up to 10% of their original
mortgage, in every 12 month period  starting from the first day of the month after completion
of the mortgage.  They  wouldnt be charged  an ERC  on these.
Mr G needed to retire  on medical grounds. So Mr and Mrs G decided  to sell their property,
and move to a different part of the country  where they would be mortgage-free. They
planned to live on the money  they made from the property until they reached pension age.
On 15 March 2019, Mr G rang Nationwide.  He told the adviser that they were selling their
property and moving, and would  have  enough to pay off the mortgage. Mr G said that the
problem was that they were on a fixed rate. So he wanted to know  what the penalty  would
be if they paid off the mortgage, or whether  it would be better to wait and just pay the
mortgage as normal until October 2020,  and pay it off then.
The adviser confirmed  that there would be an ERC of around £1,105 if Mr and Mrs G paid off
the mortgage while there was a 2% ERC. In the final year, from October  2019,  this would
halve to 1% ERC. Mr G said so if I sell in July do I keep my mortgage payments as normal
till October? The adviser  replied You can look to do that if you want to not get that higher
repayment charge.
Mr G went on to say It would cost more in interest if I left it until next October, wouldnt it?
The adviser replied  that it would  depend  on the balance, and Mr G went on to check: So
when Ive moved, I just keep the money  in the bank  to pay it as normal, and when October
comes I can pay it off and pay the 1% charge?  Nationwides adviser replied  Thats
correct.
But Mr G then had an email from his solicitor, which said that Mr and Mrs G couldnt  do this,
but would  have to pay off the mortgage straightaway with the sale proceeds. So Mr G rang
Nationwide again  on 25 March.
In this call, Mr G explained the situation.  There was some confusion initially,  because the
adviser said Mr G would have to talk to his solicitor. And she then thought  Mr G meant  that
they were considering moving the mortgage  to their new property.  But she did agree that if
Mr and Mrs G werent moving their mortgage, theyd have to pay the 2% ERC. Mr and Mrs G
complained.
Ref: DRN01915412In its final response,  Nationwide explained  that when a property  has a mortgage,  the lender
puts a legal charge on the property.  This means that any money owed would have to be paid
off before the lender  would release the charge. And if the mortgage  wasnt  fully paid off, the
lender would keep the charge in place, which would cause issues for the buyers.
Nationwide apologised for its mistake. It initially offered Mr and Mrs G £50 compensation
which it increased to £75. It paid this to Mr and Mrs G without asking if they agreed.
Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied and complained to this service. They told us about
Nationwides mistakes. They explained  that money was tight and theyd be about £600
worse off. And they were also unhappy that Nationwide had just paid the £75 into the bank
account from which they made their mortgage payment, without asking them  whether theyd
accept it. They said they wanted Nationwide only to charge them the 1% ERC because
Nationwide had advised them to wait till October  and then pay only 1% ERC.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr and Mrs Gs complaint,  but he didnt uphold it. He
agreed that Nationwides 15 March adviser had given incorrect information,  and that this
would have been frustrating. But the investigator  explained that this service  looks at the
impact of errors. Mr and Mrs G had been selling their house  anyway. So the investigator
thought that if Nationwide had given the right advice in March, Mr and Mrs G would still have
gone ahead, and would have had to pay the 2% ERC. And the investigator also said that the
charges had been set out in the mortgage  terms and conditions, and the wrong  advice didnt
overturn these. He thought Nationwides  £75 compensation was fair.
Mr and Mrs G were very unhappy. They said it couldnt be fair when Nationwide  had paid
them £75 without  their consent, when theyd  probably have to pay over £1,000. The only fair
way of dealing  with it would be for Nationwide not to charge them  any redemption penalties,
as theyd told Mr G, or at least only half. They said they were  being hit financially  and this
wasnt what they wanted to hear in the circumstances of their move.  They said Nationwide
should be found guilty because the case was so straightforward with Nationwide admitting it
was wrong.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  This included listening to the call recordings  on 15 March and 25 March.
In my provisional decision,  I said I did understand why Mr and Mrs G were  so upset, and I 
sympathised with them.  The circumstances of their move were stressful, and they had 
explained why money was particularly  important to them in their situation. I listened to the 
calls, and Mr G was very clear about his questions.
I said that I could also understand  why Mr G came up with the idea of keeping on paying the 
mortgage until the ERC had run out. Arithmetically,  it was a bright idea, and hed also 
thought about the fact that it would probably be better to pay off the mortgage completely 
after October 2019 rather than pay another years  interest. But the problem wasnt with the 
arithmetic but with the way mortgages are set up legally. If Mr and Mrs G didnt pay off their 
mortgage in full when they sold, the lender wouldnt release the legal charge on the property. 
And that would make  it impossible for any buyer  to go ahead with the purchase, because the 
property would be encumbered by a first charge in favour of Nationwide.
Ref: DRN01915413But none  of this was explained,  by either  of Nationwides advisers.  The 15 March  adviser,  as
Ive set out above, specifically told Mr G he could  keep the mortgage and keep paying it
even after Mr and Mrs G had sold the property. She confirmed this when  Mr G checked it
during the conversation. This was completely wrong. She also talked about October as the
end date when  in fact the date was 31 October  so Mr and Mrs G moved onto the lower  ERC
band on 1 November annually. And she didnt even ask whether or not Mr and Mrs G might
wish to transfer (port ) their mortgage which would avoid an ERC being payable.
Even the 25 March  adviser didnt explain the reasons. And she got confused  about  possibly
porting the mortgage to the new property, even though Mr G had been quite clear about not
having a mortgage on the new property. But that adviser did say that Mr and Mrs G couldnt
do what Mr G had suggested.
I found that Nationwide should  pay compensation for its errors.  I explained that when this 
service looks at compensation, we have to consider it in two parts   financial loss, and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
In relation to financial loss, Mr and Mrs G didnt  actually suffer a financial loss. They were
already in the process of moving, and I considered it was likely that if theyd been given the 
right information on 15 March, theyd still have gone ahead with the property  transactions 
and would have  had to pay the 2% ERC.
I realised that Mr and Mrs G feel there  is a financial loss and that theyll lose around  £600 by
paying a 2% ERC instead of a 1% ERC. But this isnt a loss compared with what  they were
legally required to pay  its what feels like a loss compared with the incorrect information the
adviser told them. The mortgage offer set out the legal requirements regarding  the scale  of
ERC charges. The advisers verbal  mistake couldnt change that legal document  which
Mr and Mrs G had agreed when they took out the mortgage. To invent  an extreme  example,
if any adviser wrongly told borrowers they neednt bother  to pay off their mortgage at all, no
lender would have honoured its employees mistake and we wouldnt have asked it to either.
The aim of redress  is to place a consumer in the position they would have been in if the
mistake hadnt happened.  So I didnt find that Nationwide  was bound to honour  its advisers
mistake.
But I did consider  that Nationwides  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by its mistake wasnt sufficient. Ive set out above the mistakes made by the 15 
March adviser, and the fact that the 25 March adviser didnt fully understand what  Mr G had 
told her, or provide  a clear explanation about  why Mr G couldnt  do what  he wanted.  It was 
only in the 27 March final response  letter that Mr and Mrs G received a clear explanation  
about how the legal charge worked. Anyone would have been  frustrated and upset by this. I 
considered that the impact on Mr and Mrs G, who were moving because of Mr Gs medical 
condition and were  going to be in tighter  financial circumstances, would have been greater.
I didnt consider Nationwide acted wrongly by paying  its offer direct  to Mr and Mrs Gs bank,
because that wouldnt affect their right of referral to this service.
So my provisional findings  were  that I didnt agree that Nationwide  should reduce Mr and
Mrs Gs ERC to 1% during its 2% year. But taking everything into account, I considered  that 
a more appropriate amount of compensation for Nationwide  to have paid Mr and Mrs G for
distress and inconvenience would be £200. Its paid £75 which would  leave £125  to pay.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ref: DRN01915414Mr and Mrs G said that they were disappointed with my provisional decision. They explained 
that Nationwide had made two poor mistakes. They said theyd had to pay £1,104.71 to pay 
off their mortgage, and compensation of £200  still left them  some  £800 out of pocket. They  
said that money was tight in their current circumstances. This meant that they didnt  have the 
£800 which they thought  theyd be able to use for essential repairs to their new home.
Nationwide said it had no further comments to make. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs G are disappointed that I didnt consider the compensation 
should cover  the full cost of their ERC. I appreciate that theyve told us money is tight,  and 
that Nationwide made  more than one bad mistake.
But as Ive set out above, the ERC they had to pay wasnt a financial loss, because  they 
were legally required to pay that. It felt like a loss compared with the incorrect information 
Nationwides adviser gave them. But that verbal  mistake couldnt change  the legal document  
that Mr and Mrs G had agreed when they took out the mortgage  and that legal document  
obliged them to pay the higher ERC.
I find, however,  that Nationwides original offer of compensation for the distress and upset it 
caused Mr and Mrs G wasnt enough.  I consider  that Nationwide should pay a total of £200. 
Taking into account the £75 its already paid, that leaves another  £125 for Nationwide  to pay 
to Mr and Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Nationwide Building  Society to pay Mr and Mrs G a total of 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its mistakes caused them. As 
Nationwide has already paid £75, this leaves £125  still to pay. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0191541