K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which include Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made  an offer 
as if it had.
Miss Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   it didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Bs. I havent  set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Bs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. But in any event BoS has paid back some of the cost 
of the PPI, so I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. Ive summarised my reasons for 
each of these  conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because BoS sent in a copy of Miss Bs credit card agreement, on 
which it says that the details  shown on the agreement were provided by Miss B  and it 
further says You have requested Repayments  Cover.  Theres  nothing on the form to 
suggest that the PPI was compulsory, and I think Miss B could have declined the cover 
had she so wished.  Miss B said she applied for the card by post,  but BoS said the 
Ref: DRN03484692application was made in a branch, and sent in computer  records to support  this. So I 
think the agreement  was probably  printed off after a discussion with the adviser.
Miss B said she wasnt advised to take the PPI, but BoS disagreed and said it 
recommended the PPI to her. The information  BoS provided leads me to think  this was 
an advised sale, so BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Miss B. And the 
evidence about Miss Bs circumstances  at the time shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. For example  Im satisfied Miss B was eligible 
for the cover and although she said she was entitled to at least three months sick pay 
from her employer, and a payment in the event of redundancy, she also said she had no 
savings to fall back on. So she still seems to have  had a need for cover. And Ive kept in 
mind that the policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim  longer than her 
sick pay or redundancy pay.
There was nothing about Miss Bs employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim.  And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that couldve affected her ability to claim.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss B as I concluded  
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Miss B 
would have declined  the cover had BoS done anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think  
she would have  still thought she had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Miss B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time.  I also think  
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought  she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Bs representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Bs individual  complaint   just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Bs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN03484693This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs  to 
do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Miss Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  it has said Miss B should get back all the money she paid for the policy because 
BoS failed to tell Miss B about the high commission  and profit-share rates  paid, the low 
claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because, it says, that meant the 
policy was poor value, I should find that Miss B wouldnt have taken out the policy had she 
known about the level of commission  and she should receive a refund of all the premiums  
she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Miss Bs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BoS has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss Bs case  was less than half 
the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Miss B about the commission. So it follows  that I dont think  
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BoS treated Miss B unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Miss B back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN03484694But in any event BoS has paid back to Miss B some  of the cost of the PPI to compensate 
Miss B as if it had treated  her unfairly.  So I dont think it needs  to do anything  more.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Miss Bs complaint or make any award  in 
her favour for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland plc didnt need  to disclose the commission  it 
received, it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Miss B paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss B. So Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 September 2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0348469