K820x#14Complaint
Mrs N (with  representation from her husband, Mr N) complains that British Gas Insurance  
Limited didnt adequately  check  their boiler  during an annual service,  and that it dealt with 
their central heating claim unfairly.
Background
Mrs N have central heating cover (including an annual service) with British Gas Insurance  
Limited for several properties she and Mr N rent out. They also hold a product called  
Landlord Safety Gas Certificate. This isnt an insurance product  and, although branded  
as a British Gas product, is provided by a separate legal entity to the insurance firm. 
One of the properties is rented to a mother with two young children,  one of whom is 
vulnerable. In early  2019, Mr N reports that they accidentally  opened  the water filling valve.  
He says the pressure valve should have opened to release the excess   but it didnt, causing 
the boiler to overflow. 
Mr and Mrs N notified a claim  on the policy. They say British  Gas dealt with this poorly and 
wouldnt repair the valve, instead advising them to get a new boiler.  They think  it should  
therefore cover the cost of the new boiler; refund the £250 they paid their tenant due to 
being without  heating for two weeks; refund the money they spent getting a separate  
engineer report;  refund  their yearly premium; and pay £400 for their time (including time 
booked off work) and petrol costs.
British Gas disagrees that it made  an error. It said the time taken  was due to it following 
Mr and Mrs Ns instructions  to order parts after it advised that some  may be obsolete. During 
the claim,  it discovered  the flue elbow was also corroded. After  replacing that, there  were  still 
leaks as well as issues sourcing parts. It says it therefore told them  to get a new boiler. 
Our investigator has explained  that we cant consider  the service provided  when issuing the 
Landlord Gas Safety Certificate,  as that wasnt done  as part of the regulated insurance 
contract. However,  as an annual service is included  in the insurance contract, he did 
consider whether the issue(s) should  have  been  picked up during that. But he didnt think  the 
evidence substantiated that the annual services had been inadequate. And he thought  the 
claim had been  considered fairly.  
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree with our investigator. They said the contract was to look after the 
boiler, and British Gas was obliged to do the repair.  The case has now been  passed to me 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not awarding  the amount Mr and Mrs N are seeking  nor am I directing 
British Gas to take other action to resolve  their complaint. Ill explain why. For ease, Ive 
addressed the key points Ive identified separately
Ref: DRN03608152Annual service
As our investigator explained, I can only consider whether British Gas made errors that 
caused Mr and Mrs N a loss when it  or agents acting on its behalf   carried out annual  
services through  their central heating  insurance.  I cant consider any services or work done  
under the Landlord Safety  Gas Certificate  as that product isnt a regulated insurance 
contract. Nor was it provided  by or on behalf of British Gas Insurance Limited,  whose liability 
Im considering in this case.
The main  questions Ive considered here are  was a fault with the boiler at the point of the 
last annual service  that British Gas should have reasonably spotted? And if so, did this 
cause Mr and Mrs N to lose out? 
Looking at the available information, I havent  seen anything to substantiate that British Gas 
ought to have checked the valve but didnt.  Nor have I seen any suggestion that the valve 
was faulty at that point. I note that British Gas has explained that it would have issued a 
checklist with the person  present for the annual service (so likely the tenant or landlords). 
But Mr and Mrs N havent provided evidence that (for example) the pressure was 
dangerously low at the point of the last annual service. On balance, I cant reasonably  
conclude that British Gas ought to have known about the fault before the claim. 
Claim
As a starting point,  Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the insurance contract. These 
do say that British Gas will cover repairs to the heating  and hot water system.  And I 
understand that, following  the work it completed, the tenant was left without heating or hot 
water. So, Ive considered what happened and why  to see if British  Gas dealt with the 
claim fairly and reasonably, given its contractual obligations.
That said,  I will clarify that I dont agree that British Gas is bound  to complete repairs 
indefinitely and at any cost. I dont think any prudent insurer would do that. At some point, a 
judgement must be made about  whether  a repair is reasonably viable given the overall state 
of the boiler. It wouldnt be fair to expect it to complete expensive  repairs  if those outweighed 
the remaining  lifespan of the boiler. Ultimately,  the purpose of insurance is to indemnify the 
policyholder against specified perils. Its not designed to leave them in a better  position  to 
the one they were in prior to the loss or damage  as a new boiler  would do here  or to 
cover ongoing  maintenance responsibilities.  
Ive looked at the notes from the visits as well as the testimony provided by Mr and Mrs N 
and their tenant. It seems  the time taken was largely  due to British Gas needing  to order 
parts. It says it advised that some  parts  could  be obsolete. That matches what  all parties  
have told us about the suggestion of getting a new boiler being raised by British  Gas from 
the start,  and fits with the age of the boiler  (around fifteen years old at the time of the fault). 
I can see that British Gas provided  fan heaters whilst it was dealing with the claim. And it 
attempted to repair the fault. But it came  across further issues  which  again explains why 
there were multiple visits. For example,  it found that the inner  flue was brittle and had 
crumbled. It replaced this, but the boiler  still wasnt functioning correctly. So in the 
circumstances, I consider it reasonable for British Gas to decide that the viable way forward  
was to replace  the boiler. And that wouldnt  be covered  under the policy. The terms explain 
that boiler replacement  is only covered if British Gas cant complete the repair  and the boiler:
Ref: DRN03608153is less than 7 years old (or less than 10 years old if we installed it and have 
covered it ever since)
Mr and Mrs N have provided  a letter from the company which installed the new boiler they 
got. This letter says the boiler  was repairable  but the decision was made to instead  install  
a new boiler, particularly given the length  of time without heating or hot water. This doesnt 
persuade me that British Gas should  reasonably have been able to complete the repair.  It 
doesnt, for example, provide any detail about  how the boiler  could be repaired  given the 
issues British Gas had sourcing  replacement parts. And whilst I understand why Mr and 
Mrs N took the action they did, Im conscious  they did decide to get a new boiler despite 
seemingly having  the option of getting it repaired. Although the time taken  is stated as a 
reason for this  I havent found that British Gas unreasonably delayed  things.  Ive found that 
most of the time was due to the wait for parts, which isnt reasonably  within its control. 
 
So overall, Im not persuaded that British Gas dealt with this claim unfairly. I think  it took 
reasonable action to repair the fault  and it wasnt obliged to replace the boiler.  I also 
havent found reasonable grounds  to direct it to refund the premium for the period of cover  it 
provided. Even within this claim, it provided resources  such as replacing  the flue. Its just 
that the repairs undertaken didnt fix the boiler.  Moreover, British Gas has still borne the risk 
of providing repairs  for the whole central  heating system. And the premium is the agreed 
price for the risk it has taken on. 
Customer service  
I note that Mr and Mrs N have raised  wider  concerns  about the service provided by British 
Gas throughout  the claim. As noted  above, I dont consider the overall  time taken  to be 
unreasonable. That said, I think its possible there  were some service  failings. For example, 
the tenant has reported that an appointment was missed. So Ive considered  whether 
compensation is due for any undue distress and inconvenience  caused  to the policyholder.
I understand that the tenant  was  understandably  upset about the situation. She didnt 
have proper heating  or hot water for around two weeks  and seems to have been left waiting 
for a missed  appointment.  But its not within my remit to consider the impact on her. She isnt 
party to this complaint,  nor is she British Gass customer in this matter.  
That said,  I have considered the amount Mr and Mrs N say they paid their tenant due to 
what happened. But similarly,  I think this goes beyond  British Gass liability  under the 
contract. Ultimately, as landlords, they have obligations to their tenants that go beyond  
British Gass contractual obligations to them. In all the circumstances, I dont consider it fair 
or reasonable to expect British to refund what they chose to pay their tenant.
Whilst I appreciate that the situation  was undoubtedly stressful for the policyholder, I can 
only compensate for the unavoidable distress  and inconvenience she suffered due to British 
Gass errors. I do think the situation  itself  rather than poor claim handling  caused a lot of 
the stress  and upset.  For example, looking  at the proportion of the claim spent waiting on 
parts, that seems more a consequence of the boiler  age/type than any errors  by British Gas.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that the impact  of any mistakes by British  Gas justifies  awarding  
compensation. 
 
Ref: DRN03608154My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0360815