K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  RAC Insurance Limiteds service in connection with her 
European breakdown cover  after her car broke down when she was abroad.
Reference to RAC includes its agents.
background
Mrs L was on a motorway in Europe  when her car broke down.  She called RAC for help. She 
was unhappy  with a number of aspects of its service  and complained.  RAC thought it had 
provided a reasonable service and had continued  to provide assistance even though it 
thought the circumstances of Mrs Ls breakdown didn't entitle her to claim on the policy.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought that RAC had dealt with Mrs L 
reasonably. Mrs L didnt agree so her complaint's  been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs Ls made  a number of detailed points. I've considered very 
carefully everything she said. But in this decision  I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues  following  our adjudicators assessment of her complaint.
I understand that when Mrs L first contacted RAC it struggled to establish exactly where  she 
was. At the time Mrs L was at a motorway service station. RAC has accepted that it should  
have been easy  for it to locate her using its online tools. So I can understand that Mrs L 
would have found this frustrating. But I note RAC  have apologised to Mrs L. And I think  thats 
a reasonable response in the circumstances.
In any event its worth pointing out that as Mrs L was at a motorway services, the regulations 
of the country  she was in don't allow RAC  to provide  assistance  there.  So it correctly told her 
to contact the appropriate recovery  service  that was allowed to provide help. 
After the local recovery  agent took Mrs Ls car to its depot Mrs L asked RAC if it could take 
her car to a specified garage  near to her destination. That isn't something the policy covers. 
Her policy says it will take her car to a garage local to the site of the breakdown and not to 
her final destination.  But RAC agreed  to Mrs Ls request. However. when it rang Mrs Ls 
chosen garage they said that while they could repair the car they couldn't  start the work for 
some weeks. So RAC  and Mrs L had to find alternative arrangements.
Mrs L has since said that she doesn't  think  that RAC rang her chosen garage at all. She 
thinks RAC invented its note of the call and believes it needs to provide an itemised 
telephone bill to show that the call happened. But I don't think  that's necessary.
In circumstances  like this where the content,  or indeed the existence, of a phone call are 
disputed I would generally ask for a recording of the call. But in this case thats not possible 
as the privacy regulations of the country Mrs L was in don't allow  sharing of call recordings. 
Where call recordings aren't available I have  to decide whats more likely than not to have 
Ref: DRN08963972happened based on all the other available evidence. In this case  I've seen RACs system 
notes say that when Mrs L rang RAC  she asked  for the car to be taken to a specific  garage 
near to her destination.  This isn't something the policy  covers. RACs notes show that the 
call handler discussed  the case with someone  who was - presumably - a manager  and they 
considered the costs  involved of taking Mrs Ls car to her chosen garage before agreeing to 
Mrs Ls request. There is then a record of RAC  calling Mrs Ls chosen garage,  which  is on its 
list of approved repairers, but the garage  said it couldn't start the work for some weeks. And 
at that point RAC looked to arrange an alternative solution. 
I find those notes persuasive that events unfolded as they say they did. I don't think  RAC 
had anything to gain by inventing a phone call to one of its approved  repairs.  Thats 
because, as Mrs L pointed out, taking the car to the garage of her choice would have most 
likely made the situation easier for RAC to deal with. And I note it weighed  up the costs of 
this before asking  the chosen  garage  to repair the car. In other  words  RAC realised that the 
costs of asking the chosen garage to repair the car would  be the same or less than 
arranging repairs at a local garage  and providing  hire cars and other services. So as that 
arrangement would also have likely benefited RAC Im satisfied that there was no reason for 
RAC to lie and say that the garage  couldn't repair the car sooner. And Im persuaded that 
the call took place as RACs notes  say it did. It follows that I don't intend to ask RAC for 
further evidence  of the call.
I understand that there were  other  points where things didn't go smoothly. In particular  with 
sourcing suitable  hire cars from suitable locations.  Im aware that Mrs L feels  that she had to 
do all the work trying  to find hire cars.  But I've had the benefit of seeing RACs system notes. 
And its clear  from those that it contacted  a number of hire companies trying  to find a suitable 
car. Hire cars are dependent on their availability and that availability can change  over time 
as cars are dropped off, booked and collected.  So it's not necessarily the case that simply 
because there is a hire company situated locally it will have a suitable car. And there was an 
added complication  in this case as Mrs L was travelling  with dogs and some hire companies  
simply won't allow pets in their cars.  Also, for her journey home, Mrs L wanted to drive  the 
car back to the UK, which further limited RACs options. And I can see that RAC rang a 
number of hire companies but they either said that a car wasn't available or the options 
weren't to Mrs Ls preference to drive her family  back  to the UK.
Mrs L called  one company herself.  The hire company confirmed  that it had a car suitable to 
drive back  to the UK. This was the same company  that RAC had already rung,  but at that 
time it didn't tell RAC  that the car Mrs L sourced was available. Mrs L let RAC know that it 
did have a suitable car available  and RAC  booked it. I can see that from Mrs Ls perspective 
that it looks like RAC  hadn't done  its job otherwise it could have found the car itself. But 
RACs system  notes say otherwise and the evidence  is that when it spoke with the hire 
company the car wasn't available. So I don't  think RAC  did anything wrong. But in any event  
as recognition of the frustration Mrs L had suffered sourcing the hire car RAC agreed  to 
reduce the amount of the additional charge she had to pay  in order  to drive the car to the 
UK - by £110. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs L is also unhappy that RAC didn't  arrange  for her to drive  her car all the way home.  
Instead it told her to drop the car off at the ferry port in the UK and then pick up another hire 
car in order  to continue  her journey  home. Mrs L has said that the car she hired abroad is 
UK registered so she thinks the hire company would have allowed her to drive it all the way 
home and drop it locally. But I haven't seen  any evidence  RAC was aware that Mrs L was 
going to pick up a UK registered  car. And from the evidence Ive seen it appears that RAC 
was simply doing what  the hire companys  terms required it to do. So while I can understand 
Ref: DRN08963973Mrs L found the situation frustrating I don't think that's  necessarily because  RAC did 
anything wrong .
I do understand that Mrs L found  the whole situation  troublesome.  But I think  its worth noting 
that the breakdown happened  following a failure  of a timing  belt. And according to the car 
manufactures guidance, that timing belt should have been replaced at an earlier service. But 
it appears that the car hadn't  been  serviced  in line with the manufacturers  instructions. So if 
the timing belt had been replaced its unlikely that car would have broken down, and on that 
basis Mrs Ls breakdown  wasn't covered by the policys terms. So RAC didn't have to 
provide any assistance  at all. Mrs L initially disputed that the cause of the breakdown was 
linked to the cars service history. Something she appears to now accept. But despite the 
fact that she technically  wasn't covered for the event  RAC continued to arrange hire cars to 
bring her and her family home when that wasn't  something it had to do. And overall I think  
RAC dealt  with Mrs L fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0896397