K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that Almary  Green  Investments Limited didnt consider her health  when 
recommending an annuity to her.
background
Miss J was contacted by her pension provider Aviva  in 2016. She was informed she had to 
make a decision about how she wanted  to take her pension benefits before her 75th birthday. 
If she hadnt made a choice before  then,  Aviva would automatically crystallize her benefits 
and provide an annuity. 
Miss J then contacted  Almary Green to give her pension advice. She wanted  to consolidate 
several of her pensions  into one income. Almary Green recommended  a standard annuity  as 
Miss J wanted a guaranteed income  and didnt want to take much risk. She had no 
dependents and wasnt concerned to leave provisions as an inheritance.
Miss J says she had been diagnosed in 2014  with a heart condition  which  could have made 
her eligible  for an enhanced annuity,  however when she met with Almary Green  they didnt 
ask her any detailed  questions about  her health. Miss J says she was rushed through  the 
process as Almary  Green said they needed to get all the information together  from 
Miss Js pension providers within two weeks.
Almary Green says health questions would have  been asked, but it seems Miss J didnt 
disclose her condition.  They  pointed to a questionnaire  that was completed with Miss J in 
2016.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Js complaint and decided  not to uphold it. Based 
on the documents provided by Almary  Green he thought on balance it was more likely that 
Miss Js health was discussed  but that she didnt declare her health condition,  potentially as 
she didnt consider it to be serious at the time.  Unfortunately, since  then her condition has 
deteriorated and Miss J is waiting for surgery.
Miss J understood how our investigator had reached his opinion,  but feels  strongly that the 
adviser didnt do her job properly, so she asked for an ombudsman  to review her complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the investigator to not uphold Miss Js complaint. I know  that 
this will be disappointing for Miss J, but hope shell understand why Ive reached my 
decision.
Miss J met with the adviser in June 2016.  Miss J says she felt pressurised and rushed by 
Almary Green and she was told everything  had to be done within two weeks. I think its likely 
that the adviser told Miss J that things had to progress quickly and there  was not much  time. 
Aviva had told Miss J to make  a decision before her 75th birthday and that was only two 
weeks away when Miss J met with her adviser.  So whilst I can completely sympathise with 
Miss J that things possibly  felt a bit stressful and worrying, I think  it was reasonable for 
Almary Green to stress to Miss J that there was some urgency to the process and for them  
Ref: DRN05501492to try everything to get things done  quickly for Miss J before her birthday. It also seems that 
they were trying to secure an annuity rate offer for Miss J that was about  to expire.
Even with time pressure,  of course I would still expect Almary Green to treat Miss J fairly and 
assess her circumstances  properly before making  a recommendation. Ive seen the 
documents that were completed  with Miss J during their meeting and the suitability report 
that was issued to her a week later. Based on these documents Miss Js objectives and 
financial circumstances were discussed  in some detail and I think  the recommendation made 
to take out an annuity was suitable  for her.
They key question here is what was discussed around Miss Js health. Almary  Green  
provided a questionnaire  that was completed with Miss J in June. It contains  a section about 
enhanced annuities which explains that a higher  income can be achieved if theres the 
potential of someone having  a shorter life span for example due to poor health. It asks 
questions about  a customers height and weight, as well as details about  smoking  and 
drinking habits. It then gives a list of medical  conditions, including any other  heart condition 
and any other serious ill health or condition  and asks to confirm whether the customer had 
suffered from any of these. It says that any of these conditions may lead to entitlement to an 
enhanced annuity.
In Miss Js questionnaire,  her weight and height  are documented as well as how many  units  
of alcohol she drinks  per week and that she is a non-smoker. The list of health conditions is 
left blank. Miss J signed the questionnaire on the day of the meeting with the adviser in 
June.
Miss J received a very detailed financial planning  report a week  later which summarised 
Almary Greens recommendation based on the details they had taken from Miss J during 
their meeting. On the first page it says that Miss J is in good health and later in the report 
technical notes  explain that an enhanced annuity can be achieved due to ill health or lifestyle  
choices. Miss J signed this report a few days later in July 2016. 
Miss J says the adviser completed the questionnaire  for her during the meeting and she 
didnt see the questions.  She is adamant that she wasnt  asked detailed questions about  any 
health conditions.  She says if she had been  probed  about health conditions  she would have 
mentioned her heart condition. 
I wasnt present at the meeting between  Miss J and Almary Green, so I cant  say what  
exactly was discussed  with regards to enhanced annuities and Miss Js health and in how 
much detail. When I dont have evidence to prove something one way or the other, I need to 
weigh up the evidence I do have and make  a decision  based on the balance  of probability.
Ive considered this very carefully and I have no reason to disbelieve  Miss J when she says 
her health  wasnt discussed  in much  detail. However, Miss J was obviously asked questions 
around her weight, height and smoking  and drinking habits as these fields  are completed in 
the questionnaire.  And I think its reasonable to assume that the adviser  would have told 
Miss J why she was asking her these  questions.  So on balance I think its more likely than 
not that the adviser also asked her questions with regards to her health as requested  by the 
form. Its possible that this wasnt discussed in much  detail and that the adviser went  through 
the list relatively quickly or even summarised it. But if Miss J then didnt indicate that she had 
any health issues I think it would  be reasonable to rely on Miss Js answer and I wouldnt 
expect an adviser to probe this further.
Ref: DRN05501493An enhanced annuity can be paid if an annuity  provider  considers a customer  might have a 
shorter lifespan due to certain  factors,  for example having health issues or being a smoker.  
Miss J had been diagnosed with a heart condition a couple of years earlier.  However, she 
told us that doctors  said this wasnt dangerous and could be compared to a wisdom tooth 
not having enough space. She says she was told not to worry and I think at the time of the 
meeting its likely she would have considered herself to be in good health  and not for this 
condition to necessarily  shorten  her lifespan.  I also have to take into account  that Miss J 
signed this questionnaire  and so she had the opportunity to review the questions  and 
answers on it.
So based  on the evidence I have, I think its more  likely than not health conditions  were 
mentioned (even if it was briefly) by the adviser  but Miss J didnt indicate that she had any 
issues. 
I appreciate that looking at this in hindsight Miss J sees this differently. Unfortunately, her 
condition has worsened and she does need  surgery now.  So from the position she is in now 
I understand she feels she definitely would  have mentioned her heart condition  if asked  
about her health.  But I need to decide  what is likely to have happened back  in 2016  when 
her condition didnt  seem as serious to her and I think back  then its possible she wouldnt 
have mentioned it.
I think this is also supported by the fact Miss J received a financial planning report a week 
after the meeting  which  summarised  the discussions and recommendation and it was stated  
she was in good health. I think  if she had felt, she wasnt in good  health, she would have 
mentioned this to the adviser before signing it.
I want to assure Miss J that Ive listened  to the long phone call she had with the investigator 
and that Ive carefully considered everything  she has told us. And I understand that she feels  
she has been treated  unfairly by the adviser. However, based on the evidence  I have I cant 
fairly say that Almary Green has done anything wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Js complaint for the reasons Ive explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0550149