K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policies 
taken out in 2004 and 2008 in connection  with a joint mortgage and a further advance. Mr 
and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B complained to Cheltenham & Gloucester which is now part of Lloyds Bank 
PLC. Lloyds Bank rejected  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint so they referred  their complaint to this 
Service. 
They said they were  told they had to have the PPI even  though  they explained they did not 
need it. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  
with our adjudicators  view and asked for the matter to be looked  at again. They added the 
following points:
They did not need the PPI;
They were told twice  they had to have  PPI to get the mortgage;
If the information theyd been given had been clearer, they would not have bought 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold because:
 I think Lloyds  Bank made it clear in the mortgage application form in 2004 and on the 
PPI application form in 2008  that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI but I 
think they still chose to take it out; although  I can understand why they may 
remember events differently  I cannot  see any evidence  on the documents  produced 
that they were  told they had to have  PPI to get the mortgage and the further advance.
 Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for them   and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances in 2004 and 
2008, I think that it was. For example they were not affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover and they seemed  to have  a need for the cover.   
 Its possible the information that Lloyds Bank  gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But the forms completed at around the time of 
the sales show they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like both policies would have been useful  for them  if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the policies were affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about  the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN02985432Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B has said - including what  they have said about 
having very different incomes in 2004  and yet the policy was split between them  in equal 
shares for cover. But these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds Bank  needs  to give Mr and Mrs B some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage became a regulated mortgage  with the further advance  in 2008 the new 
rules and guidance dont apply. So Lloyds  Bank  doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage and the further  
advance.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0298543