K822xcomplaint
Miss H has complained Indigo Michael Limited,  trading as SafetyNet Credit, is holding  her 
liable for a loan she didnt  apply for in 2016.
background 
In 2016 Miss H started to get letters  from SafetyNet Credit about missed  loan payments. As 
she didnt take out this loan, she complained  to them. They told her the loan was taken  out 
using her bank account  details  so had no evidence the loan wasnt  hers.  They were 
continuing to hold her liable for payment for the £200 loan but on a goodwill basis  were 
prepared to waive the £64 interest  payable.
Miss H brought  her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  She included  evidence from one of 
the credit  reference  agencies  showing  a number of attempts to take out credit in her name in 
both 2013 and 2016. She said this wasnt her.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. This included the application details SafetyNet Credit 
had collected.  Whilst this showed Miss Hs correct bank account details, neither the email 
address nor the mobile  phone  number  were hers. SafetyNet Credit confirmed they were still 
willing to accept payment  of £200  and would write off the interest  due.
He also noted  Miss H admitted to having  spent the £200 paid into her account  as shed not 
noticed it specifically.  So he was unable to be sure whether shed applied  for the loan or not 
but that as shed spent the money, he felt it was fair she repay SafetyNet £200.
Miss H was unhappy with this outcome  as shed not applied for the loan. She also wanted  it 
cleared from her credit record.  As SafetyNet Credit wouldnt agree to this, her complaint has 
been referred to an ombudsman.
In the period since then, and to avoid  adverse  markers on her credit record, Miss H has paid 
£264 to SafetyNet Credit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a slightly 
different conclusion to our adjudicator.  As more than a year and a half has passed since  the 
view, I have also been back in touch with SafetyNet letting them know  what my conclusions 
would be.
Firstly Ive looked at the evidence  of the original application  made  in Miss Hs name. The 
email and phone details dont match the ones Miss H has used in her complaint to us. Nor is 
the employment data hers.
I can see, however,  that the bank  account details are Miss Hs. So whoever made  this 
application  which was originally for £400   anticipated being able to get the money  from 
her account.
This may have failed  as Miss H didnt  use online  banking rather she used her own banks 
app on her mobile phone. So this may have made  it difficult for an unknown third party  to 
access the money SafetyNet Credit paid into Miss Hs account.
Ref: DRN09990752Miss H has told us she didnt regularly check her bank account  at the time so she didnt 
notice the £200 being paid in. She did end up spending this money, as well as other  funds in 
her account,  quite quickly after the payment inwards. But the payments she made were to 
accounts she regularly  sent money to, or received  money from. So itd be difficult  to suggest 
Miss H was using the money fraudulently or knowingly.
Its difficult to come  to any other  conclusion  than Miss H didnt take out the loan with 
SafetyNet Credit. I say this because:
The application was made with some  details that werent  hers;
Attempted contact  with the phone number  and email address SafetyNet Credit held 
for Miss H had already  failed;
Miss H regularly paid her bills so it seems unlikely that if shed taken  out the loan, 
she wouldnt have  made the regular payments when due;
Around this time Miss H was a victim  of ID fraud; and
Miss Hs own evidence  over the past two years has been consistent and persuasive.
However I am in no doubt from the evidence  Miss H did use the money.  Therefore,  
regardless of the fact she didnt apply for the loan, she had the benefit of it. It would 
therefore be unfair for her not to reimburse SafetyNet Credit for the money she used: the 
£200. However as Im satisfied she didnt apply for the loan, they cant ask her to repay the 
£64 interest charge nor can they add any information to her credit record  about  this loan.
Miss H has confirmed in the last year or so that shes in good employment  and has been 
attempting to secure a mortgage which the default  on her record  is slowing up. I know that 
she also paid the debt in full late 2018 or early  2019.
I have recently been in touch with SafetyNet Credit letting them  know  I would be upholding 
this complaint as I didnt  believe Miss H applied for the loan. I gave them  the opportunity 
informally to refund Miss H £64 from the £264  she paid them and remove  information from 
her credit record.  They remain  convinced that as Miss H received the funds they didnt have 
to do this. As Ive pointed  out this isnt the case.
I will now be instructing SafetyNet Credit to put things right as Im satisfied Miss H didnt 
apply for the loan.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Indigo  Michael  Limited, trading as 
SafetyNet Credit, to:
Repay  £64 which Miss H paid them  to settle the loan she didnt apply for
Add 8% simple interest  to that amount from the date Miss H paid this to SafetyNet  
Credit until the date of settlement; and
Remove any data about  this loan from Miss Hs credit record.
Ref: DRN09990753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0999075