K821x#15Complaint
Mr G is being represented by (a claims management company). Hes complaining about 
Phoenix Life Limited because he says he was mis-sold a series of policies that werent 
suitable for his needs.
Background
Between 1986 and 1993, Mr G took out the following polices with Abbey Life (now Phoenix):
policy 1  started in 1986, a ten-year savings  plan with an initial  monthly premium of 
£50 that was invested in the managed fund. The policy included life cover of £6,075 
and matured in 1996. 
policy 2 - started in 1987, a ten-year savings  plan with an initial monthly premium  of 
£50 that was invested in the managed fund. The policy included life cover of £6,075 
and matured in 1997.
policy 3 - started in February 1988,  a ten-year savings plan with an initial  monthly 
premium of £50 that was invested in the managed fund.  The policy included life cover  
of £6,075 and matured in 1998.
policy 4  started in 1989, a ten-year savings  plan with an initial  monthly premium of 
£50 that was invested in the managed fund. The policy included life cover of £6,075 
and matured in 1999.
policy 5  started in 1989, a whole-of-life insurance policy providing life and critical 
illness cover  of £100,000 for an initial monthly  premium of £35. It was surrendered in 
2008.
policy 6  started in 1993, a ten-year savings  plan with a monthly premium of £100 
that was invested equally  in the managed and international funds. The policy didnt 
include life cover and was held until it was cashed in 2003.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint about  
policy 6 should  be upheld. I didnt propose to uphold the complaint about the other  policies. 
An extract  is attached.
Phoenix accepted  my decision. Mr G didnt and his representative made the following key 
points:
Policies 1 to 3  another  ombudsman addressed this kind of sale in another  case 
and, although  the cost of life cover was minimal,  concluded even a small amount was 
a waste of money. And in another case an ombudsman concluded the sale of a unit-
linked savings plan to someone  who was single with no dependents was unsuitable. 
Specifically, the ombudsman said that if the client stopped the plan after a year,  
theyd only get back 20% of their premiums with 80% being  taken in charges. This 
meant the client was compelled to keep paying into the plan until maturity when 
someone so young is more likely  to have  another need for the funds at that stage in 
their lives.
Ref: DRN06185022Policy 4 - This plan was sold in 1989 and the regulation  at the time meant  that the 
adviser had to provide best advice.  The sale of yet another plan that included life 
cover didnt  satisfy this requirement. The plan returned an average  of less than 6% 
per year when the Bank of England base rate was 12.88%  in January 1989. The poor 
return wasnt just down  to just life cover  but the plan charges that should have been 
explained to Mr G.
Policy 5  It notes my comments  about  the availability of critical illness  cover  in 1989, 
but in another case an ombudsman concluded a similar policy  was mis-sold because 
the implications of taking a policy  that included unnecessary life cover werent fully 
explained.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
In response to the comments of Mr Gs representative:
Policies 1 to 3  I note the reference to complaints decided  by my colleagues. But Im 
sure the representative appreciates I need  to consider this complaint on its own 
merits and to reach an outcome thats  fair and reasonable given its particular 
circumstances. Indeed, I note the representative was critical of the investigators  
original assessment because it said it mirrored another  case and hadnt been 
considered on its own merits.
I think its also relevant to restate that these policies  were sold before the 
implementation of the Financial Services Act in 1988. This means there was no 
specific requirement  for a policy to be suitable. Abbey Lifes  representative  would 
have been expected to exercise reasonable skill and care and only recommend  
products that were  a reasonable degree  of fit for Mr G and I remain  satisfied these 
requirements were met for the reasons Ive explained previously. 
Policy 4  I appreciate  Mr G may be disappointed with the returns on the policy,  
although I dont  think its fair to judge this by comparing to the base rate when the 
policy started as this decreased significantly during the term. Either  way, the fact the 
performance of the policy doesnt live up to expectations doesnt necessarily show it 
wasnt suitable at the time it was sold.
I understand the policy was subject to some  up-front charges and that this could lead 
to low returns in the short-term. But the policy was designed to be held for ten years 
and Mr G didnt cash it in early. His representative  hasnt provided  evidence to 
support any suggestion he needed  to access his money sooner but didnt do so 
because he felt compelled to retain it because of the charging structure.
The requirement at the time this policy was sold was for the adviser to provide advice 
that was suitable for the clients circumstances  and needs. I remain  satisfied this 
requirement was met for the reasons  explained  in my provisional decision.  
Policy 5  Again,  I hope Mr Gs representative will appreciate  that Ive considered his 
complaint on its own merits. As I explained previously, its my understanding that 
Ref: DRN06185023stand-alone critical illness cover wasnt widely available in 1989 and no evidence  has 
been provided to show  thats not correct.  
As I explained previously, I think critical illness cover was a reasonable 
recommendation for Mr G and that he would have  benefitted from the cover  provided 
by his policy if hed fallen seriously ill. It remains my view that the potential benefit 
offered to Mr G by having critical  illness cover outweighed the disadvantage  of 
paying for life cover  he didnt immediately require.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
If Mr G accepts my decision, Phoenix Life Limited must pay him compensation calculated 
using the method set out in my provisional decision.  It should  provide him with details of its 
calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN06185024Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
policies 1 to 3
In making this complaint,  Mr Gs representative  said he was a young  college student  when the first 
policy was sold and wasnt an experienced investor. As a single man with no dependents, it said it 
doesnt understand why he was sold long-term  unit-linked savings plans that included life cover he 
didnt need when his objectives would  surely have been more short-term.  It also said the cumulative 
effect of the policy premiums  was a significant commitment for someone in Mr Gs situation. 
These policies  were  sold before the introduction of the Financial Services Act in April 1988, which  
means the sales werent subject to the record-keeping requirements as later sales.  There  was also no 
specific requirement for any recommendation to be suitable, although  Abbey Lifes representative  
would have been expected to exercise reasonable skill and care and only recommend products that 
were a reasonable  degree of fit with Mr Gs circumstances and needs.
Theres no dispute Mr G wanted to save for the future and the policies were  certainly consistent with 
this objective. I note his representative says his needs would have been more short-term,  but I note 
Mr G was able to retain the polices until they matured and theres  been no suggestion this caused him 
any particular problems. That he retained the policies also suggests affordability wasnt an issue and I 
note Phoenixs records indicate Mr G didnt actually pay the premiums himself.
The policies did include  a degree of risk, but that also meant there was the potential for a higher 
return. Ive seen nothing to suggest  Mr G wasnt prepared to accept any risk at all and as he was 
investing for the longer  term, Im satisfied the recommended policies  invested in Abbey Lifes 
managed fund were  broadly  appropriate. 
The policies did include  an element of life cover, although this was the minimum required to comply  
with the relevant qualifying rules and meant the final payment wouldnt subject  to additional  tax. Due 
to Mr Gs age, the cost of this life cover  was also very low and figures provided  by Phoenix indicate  
this totalled less than £100 for all three policies  combined throughout  the period they were held.
I dont think the evidence supports the view these policies were  mis-sold. Based on the information  
Ive seen, Im satisfied they were broadly appropriate for Mr G based on his circumstances  and 
objectives at the time they were sold.
policy 4
By the time this policy was sold, the Financial Services Act had come into effect  and there was a 
regulatory requirement  that any recommendation made by an adviser was suitable  for the customers 
circumstances and needs.
Ive considered the sale of this policy  with this point in mind, but I think  the it was also a suitable  
recommendation. Again,  theres no dispute  Mr G was looking to save  for the future and the policy did 
that. The ten-year term doesnt seem to have  been  an issue  as he was able to retain the policy  for the 
whole period.  This also indicates that the policy, in addition to those  sold previously, was affordable  
although I understand  Mr G didnt pay the premiums himself  in this case either.
This policy was also invested in the managed  fund and, like the others,  involved a degree of risk. But 
Ive not seen  anything  that I think demonstrates this was a greater degree of risk than Mr G was 
willing to accept. And while  the policy included a small  element  of life cover, this did mean  it was 
potentially more tax-efficient  and the cost was again  minimal at less than £25 throughout  the term due 
to Mr Gs age. 
Ref: DRN06185025On balance, for these reasons, Im currently satisfied the recommendation of policy 4 in 1989 was 
suitable advice based on Mr Gs circumstances  and objectives at that time.
policy 5
This policy is different to those Ive discussed previously as it wasnt intended  for savings and instead 
provided a substantial amount of life and critical illness  cover that was set to run for the whole  of Mr 
Gs life if necessary. In making this complaint, Mr Gs representatives questioned why he needed it 
given he was in his early  20s and had no dependants.
I think  Mr G would have benefitted from a substantial lump  sum if hed fallen seriously  ill, particularly  
as he was single and would  presumably have been reliant on his own provisions. This type of cover 
would also have been particularly relevant if Mr G was running his own business as appears to have 
been the case. In the absence of evidence  he had this type of cover elsewhere, I think  the 
recommendation of a substantial amount of critical illness cover was suitable.
The fact Mr G was single, had no dependants,  and already had it through his savings plans,  probably 
meant he didnt need further life cover. But as Phoenix has pointed out, critical illness cover wasnt 
widely available at this time and could  only be taken in combination with other types of cover.  
In my view,  the potential benefit offered to Mr G by having critical illness  cover outweighed the 
disadvantage of paying for life cover  he didnt need immediately. Its likely most  of the premium  
which I understand again  wasnt paid by Mr G himself - would have been for the cost of the critical 
illness cover  and, on balance,  I think this policy was a suitable recommendation  based on his 
circumstances and objectives at the time. This is different to the view taken  by the investigator.
policy 6
In making this complaint,  Mr Gs representative  pointed out that this was the fifth savings plan sold in 
the space of six years.  It said that no alternatives were discussed and that the funds chosen werent 
consistent with his recorded attitude  to investment risk.
Ive considered whether  this policy was suitable for Mr G and referred  to the fact find document  
completed by the adviser at the time of sale. This records Mr G was interested  in saving additional 
amounts for the future and again, I note he was able to retain  the policy for the intended term of ten 
years and affordability doesnt seem to have been an issue. Phoenix has said Mr G also didnt  pay for 
the premiums on this policy himself.
But this policy was invested  differently to those that had gone before. It invested  50% in Abbey Lifes 
managed fund, which  information provided by Abbey Life summarises as follows:
The Abbey Managed Fund  provides a managed investment in the major capital markets - 
fixed interest, indexed securities,  shares in the UK and overseas companies and property.
But Mr Gs policy also invested 50% in the international fund, which  is described in the same  literature 
as follows:
The Abbey International Fund invests  directly in a diversified portfolio of equities  on a 
worldwide basis. Investments may be made  in any of the major  markets of the world and will 
normally consist of representation  in at least  three  different countries. As a defensive  
measure investments  may also be made in fixed interest stocks on a worldwide  basis or 
money market deposits in any major  currency.
This appears to show the international  fund concentrated predominantly on stocks  and shares, with 
the option  of using other types  of investments as a purely  defensive  measure. This contrasts with the 
managed fund, which  was designed to incorporate  an element of less speculative assets, including 
fixed interest securities, at all times. Im conscious the international fund also involved exclusively 
Ref: DRN06185026overseas assets, thereby exposing  investors to additional currency  risk. Phoenix itself appears to 
accept these  factors made  it a higher risk proposition  for investors.
I think  Mr G was prepared to take a degree of risk with his money  in exchange  for a higher return, 
particularly given his investments were  designed for the longer  term.  I think  this is broadly reflected  in 
the fact find completed at the time of sale, which recorded his attitude to risk as balanced  (as 
opposed to cautious or adventurous ). But I dont think he was a particularly experienced or 
sophisticated investor and I dont think the evidence provided indicates he was willing  to accept  the 
additional risk associated with the international fund.
On balance, I think  policy  6 was unsuitable  for Mr G because the combination  of funds  meant the 
policy involved a greater degree of risk than he was prepared to accept. My view on this point is 
different to that of the investigator. 
conclusions
To summarise, I think the evidence  indicates that policies  1 to 4 were reasonable recommendations to 
meet Mr Gs savings needs at the time they were sold. I also think Mr G had a need for critical illness  
cover and that policy 5 was a suitable recommendation to address  that. I dont therefore intend to 
uphold the complaint about these policies.
On the other hand, I think policy 6 involved a greater degree of risk than Mr G was willing to accept  
and was therefore unsuitable.  Its for this reason that I intend to uphold the complaint about its sale.
Putting Things Right
In assessing what would be fair compensation for the mis-sale of policy  6, my aim is to put Mr G as 
close as possible to the position  hed probably  now be in if he hadnt  been given unsuitable advice. I 
think he would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would  have done, 
but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given  his circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.  
what should Phoenix do? 
To compensate Mr G fairly, Phoenix should pay compensation  of D + E, where:
A =  the premiums  invested, less any amounts paid out by way of withdrawals, distributions of 
capital or before-tax income before the date of encashment;
B =  a return on the amount from time to time of A by way of capital growth equivalent to 1% 
more than Bank of England base rate compounded  yearly from the date of investment to the 
date of encashment ;
C = the cash-in  value  of the actual policy at the date of encashment;
D = A + B  C, representing the investment  loss to the date of encashment; and
E = simple  interest at 8% per year on D from the date of encashment to the date of payment. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest.
For clarification,  A and B above should work  as follows. Any sum paid into the policy should  be added 
to the calculation  from the point in time when  it was actually paid in so it accrues the rate of return  
within the calculation from that point  on. Any withdrawal from the policy  (excluding the final 
encashment payment) should be deducted from the calculation at the point in time when it was 
actually made  so it ceases to accrue the rate of return in the calculation from that point on. The final 
encashment payment is dealt with separately under point C.
Ref: DRN06185027why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
I think Mr G wanted  capital growth and was prepared to accept a moderate degree of risk.
Alternative benchmarks  we often  use for calculating  compensation in cases like this werent  
available at the time Mr Gs policy  started.  But I think 1% above  the Bank of England base rate 
is a fair measure that broadly reflects the sort of return someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return could  have  achieved. 
The additional interest is for being deprived  of the use of any compensation money  since the 
policy was cashed in. 
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partly uphold  this complaint. I currently think Phoenix Life 
Limited should pay Mr G compensation calculated  using  the method  set out above.
Ref: DRN0618502