K821x#15complaint
Miss W is unhappy  with the advice  she received  from Anthony  Feeney Financial Services  
(AFFS) to transfer her existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Miss W to invest  in store pods through Store 
First. Miss Ws complaint  is made,  on her behalf, by her representative.  
background
Miss W was put in touch  with AFFS in late 2013  to talk about her pension arrangements. An 
adviser from AFFS carried out a review  of her situation. AFFS advised Miss W to transfer  
her existing pension  plan into a SIPP. This was so she could then invest in store pods,  an 
unregulated investment. 
I understand that the transfer value of Miss Ws existing pension was, after a £916  exit fee 
had been deducted, just over £46,300.  It was this amount that was transferred to the SIPP. 
This was at the end of 2013 / beginning of 2014.  Soon after the transfer, £30,750 was 
invested in store pods. Around  the end of March  2014, just under £15,000 was invested in a 
Nucleus portfolio. But it seems the store pods investment is now illiquid.  Miss W is worried 
shes lost the value of her investment. 
So in May 2016 Miss W complained, via her representative, to AFFS about the advice shed 
received. In brief, Miss W said: the advice was unsuitable; her attitude to risk was wrong; 
and AFFS hadnt  followed the relevant rules and regulations. Miss W wants  compensation 
for the money she says shes lost. 
AFFS rejected the complaint. Again in brief, it said it had warned Miss W about the risks 
involved with this investment, but she still chose to go ahead with it. This meant AFFS wasnt  
to blame for any loss Miss W might have suffered. 
Miss W wasnt happy with this response. So she brought the complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. In summary, he thought the complaint should be upheld. The 
adjudicator said there  was no evidence that Miss W had any experience  of investments like 
store pods and that she couldnt afford to lose her money. AFFS should  have advised 
Miss W that the proposed investment was unsuitable for her. He also said there was no 
evidence Miss W was either an insistent client or that the transaction was carried out on an 
execution only basis. The adjudicator then set out how he thought  AFFS needed to put 
things right. 
AFFS didnt agree with the adjudicators view. Via its representative at that time, AFFS said 
that while Miss W had made  it clear  she wasnt looking  for advice on the store pods  
investment, it still carried out due diligence on it. Miss W invested against the clear 
indications of the risk in this type of investment. AFFS asked for an oral hearing to be held 
by our service. 
This didnt  change the adjudicators view.  He still thought the complaint should be upheld 
and repeated what AFFS needed to do to put things right. In reply, AFFSs representative 
again asked for an oral hearing. Later, it sent another  response  stating that store pods 
werent either a specified investment or a designated investment as set out in the relevant  
regulations  so we are wrongly classifying  these as an unregulated  collective  investment  
scheme (UCIS). 
Ref: DRN02005872As AFFS  didnt agree  with the adjudicators  view,  this complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision dated 14 May 2019. In it, I explained  Id considered  all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I decided  to uphold this complaint. But I 
thought Miss W should be compensated in a slightly different way to that set out by our 
adjudicator. Ive detailed that below. I also went on to explain why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  
I said that both AFFS and Miss W, via their various representatives, had made numerous 
points to support  their respective  positions. I was very aware  that Id summarised this 
complaint in far less detail and in my own words. I said I wasnt  going to respond  to every 
single point made by all the parties  involved.  No discourtesy was intended  by this. Instead, 
Id focussed on what I thought was the key issue  here: was AFFSs advice to Miss W to 
transfer her existing pension to a SIPP suitable? 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our 
service. If there was something  Id not mentioned,  it wasnt because Id ignored it. I hadnt. I 
was satisfied I didnt  need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to reach what 
I thought was the right outcome. 
I then turned to the matter of the hearing  request.  The original representative for AFFS 
requested that we hold an oral hearing  to decide  this case fairly. But since  that hearing 
request, AFFS had changed  representatives.  The new representative  had been  silent  on the 
matter of a hearing.  Our adjudicator emailed the representative asking if it felt a hearing was 
necessary. No response was received. 
The original  representative for AFFS stated  the reason it wanted a hearing was to discuss  
the matters set out in correspondence between it, AFFS,  Miss Ws representative  and 
ourselves. 
I repeated that Id reviewed all the available evidence and arguments. Having done  so, I was 
satisfied a hearing wasnt needed. I said this because I thought all parties had been  able to 
state their cases clearly in the numerous  submissions that had been made. 
I understood that AFFS might be disappointed by this. But as Id said, its representative had 
been silent on the matter. I added that its very rare that a complaint cant  be fairly decided  
without a hearing. This is because, unlike  a court, we dont just rely on the parties involved to 
prove their own case. We have the power  to make our own investigations. If particular 
information is needed to decide  a complaint fairly,  there are very few cases  where we cant  
request it from either side or a third party. 
Even without  a hearing, it was still possible for AFFS to make the key points  of its case out 
loud  either directly  or through its representative.  It could  have  spoken  to the adjudicator  
and a recording of the call added to our case file for me to listen  to. Or a recording could 
have been left on the phone without interruption. If AFFS  wanted  to do this, I invited it to 
contact the adjudicator within two weeks to arrange  this. But neither AFFS nor its 
representative responded to this invitation. 
Ref: DRN02005873I then turned to our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative  for AFFS argued 
that the store pods investment wasnt either a specified investment or a designated  
investment. So it wasnt  an UCIS.  This meant the advice to invest in store  pods wasnt  an 
activity covered by our service. 
But I said that wasnt the activity I was looking at. Im looking at the advice to Miss W to open 
a SIPP.  That is a regulated activity. It doesnt matter whether or not the store pods 
investment was an UCIS. 
I then went on to say that the rules that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators 
handbook. The advice given to Miss W needed to take into account the relevant rules. This 
was irrespective of whether  or not the store pods investment was a regulated  product. The 
regulations required  the advice given  to Miss W to be suitable. To do that, AFFS had to get 
enough information about her circumstances. 
AFFS completed a fact find for Miss W. She signed this in December 2013. This recorded 
some of her personal circumstances. But not a lot of detail  was included. For instance, it 
didnt include Miss Ws outgoings, or if she had any other assets, savings or other  
investments other than her existing pension plan.  
The fact find stated that while Miss Ws existing pension plan was of value, its benefits didnt 
represent a significant proportion of her financial wealth. But it wasnt  clear at all how this 
conclusion was arrived at. As Id said, there  was no record of any other  assets, savings or 
investments. 
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in more specialised stock-market  linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment values  will fluctuate according  to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced. 
Underneath was a handwritten note:
Although  I would not consider myself  a high risk investor I understand that to achieve my 
goals in retirement I need to take higher risks with my pension  and I am happy to do so.
The following  was also ticked:
I have no  or very little  experience  or understanding of investment markets.
This was also followed  by another handwritten note:
I have little understanding of investment markets. I like the idea of a SIPP  and fixed returns 
they offer. They have  been explained to me and make  more sense than traditional bonds.
But there was no detail on how Miss Ws attitude to risk was assessed.  In the complaint 
letter to AFFS, it stated  her attitude  to risk wasnt adventurous. The available evidence 
pointed to her having  very limited investment knowledge, if any at all. Miss W certainly didnt 
seem to have invested in high risk speculative products  before. Other than her existing 
Ref: DRN02005874pension, there was nothing to show  she had any other investments whatsoever. So I didnt 
think I could rely on the fact find recording  her attitude to risk as adventurous. 
I was satisfied that given Miss Ws lack of investment experience, she was relying  on AFFS 
to give her suitable advice. Whatever her actual attitude to risk was, it was also important for 
AFFS to look at Miss Ws capacity to actually take that risk. I could see from the fact find that 
her annual salary was around  £12,000  and she lived with her father. As Id said above, the 
fact find stated Miss Ws existing pension wasnt a significant proportion of her financial 
wealth. But I wasnt satisfied this was a realistic record of her situation.  
Given Miss Ws modest income, and apparent  lack of any other savings or investments, I 
thought it was likely that a pension pot of around four times her annual income would be a 
very significant part of her financial  wealth. So Miss W could ill afford  for her investment to 
fall in value, or be lost completely. 
In a section which asked if Miss W was intending  to invest in an unregulated  or alternative 
investment, the answer Store First was given. This section went on to say that Miss W 
thought the alternative investments seemed more straightforward. Shed become 
disillusioned by her existing providers lack of service and its preference for investing in 
mainstream bonds. Given Miss Ws lack of investment experience,  it wasnt  clear to me how 
this position was arrived at. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  I assumed this was provided to Miss W after 
the fact find was completed. The copy Id seen wasnt signed  or dated. It said Miss W 
especially liked the control that a SIPP would give by allowing  her to take a more  active  role 
in choosing what she deemed were suitable  investments rather than the traditional funds in 
her existing plan. 
The investment strategy section stated Miss W sought advice from AFFS about the intention 
of investing in commercial  property,  storage  pods  in particular. It said she hadnt  sought 
advice about the suitability of this investment and had stated she understood the additional 
risks associated with such an investment. But even after theyd been explained to Miss W, 
given her limited knowledge  of investments,  I wasnt satisfied she would have  had a good 
enough understanding of the risks to adequately judge the suitability of the store  pods 
investment. She would have been heavily  reliant  on AFFS. 
In any event, the report then went on to consider the proposed store  pod investment. It said 
AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investment. It listed  some of the risks 
involved. This included investing in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large 
part of Miss Ws pension  assets bringing considerable risk. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Miss Ws fund shouldnt  be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. 
I could see that soon after the transfer to the SIPP and the store pods investment took place,  
AFFS did recommend that Miss W should make an additional investment in a Nucleus 
portfolio. This was for just under £15,000. The paperwork for this investment said Miss W 
should be categorised as a sophisticated investor.  This was totally at odds with the original 
fact find and financial planning report.  
Ref: DRN02005875While dealing with this complaint, I was very aware  that the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority, issued alerts about  advising 
on pension transfers.  These dealt  with transfers  to invest pension  funds into unregulated 
products through a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  some months 
before the advice  given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. These alerts didnt 
change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead, they simply re-stated the principles that 
were already  in place  when AFFS advised Miss W. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.  
I was satisfied it wasnt possible for AFFS to advise  Miss W on the suitability of the SIPP  
without also considering how she planned to invest. It was very clear  to me that AFFS knew  
all along that Miss W intended  to invest in store pods. With this in mind, I didnt think  it was 
suitable to advise Miss W to transfer her existing pension into a SIPP  to allow her to make 
this investment. 
AFFS said it did set out some risks of investing in store pods in the suitability report.  These 
were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual sipp 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must  consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
Ref: DRN02005876As Id already said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I didnt think this went far enough. There  was no warning to Miss W 
that all of her investment  was potentially at risk. Given Miss Ws lack of understanding of 
investment markets and that she didnt consider herself to be a high risk investor, I wasnt 
satisfied she realised  the extent of the risk she was taking  with her existing pension.  AFFS 
should have been much clearer  in its warnings to her. 
The store pods investment was unregulated. It was a specialised, non-mainstream  type of 
investment. I thought  it was also a high risk investment that wasnt suitable for somebody  
with Miss Ws low capacity for loss. The available evidence didnt show me that Miss W was 
fully aware of the risks involved in investing  in store pods.  I was satisfied the investment  
wasnt suitable for her  and thats  what AFFS should have told her. 
I was satisfied that given a realistic assessment of Miss Ws attitude  to risk as balanced, or 
medium, a standard  personal pension would have been suitable for her needs. I thought the 
extra charges normally associated with a SIPP werent justified.  I thought suitable advice 
should have been not to invest in store pods. If that advice had been  given,  I didnt see any 
reason why Miss W would  have  transferred  her existing pension to the SIPP. There would  
simply have been  no need for the SIPP. So the advice  to open a SIPP  was unsuitable for 
Miss Ws circumstances.  
fair compensation
I said my aim is to put Miss W into the position  she would likely now be in had she been 
given suitable  advice. I thought if Miss W had been given suitable advice, she would have 
kept her previous pension. 
I said AFFS should establish the notional  current transfer value of Miss Ws previous 
pension plan, assuming it hadnt  been transferred. The current transfer value of the SIPP  
investments, including any cash held in the SIPP bank account, should be compared to the 
current notional value  of Miss Ws previous pension plan. 
If there are any difficulties getting  the notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Income Total Return Index should be used. Thats a reasonable  proxy  for the kind of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.  
If theres a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Miss Ws pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.  
Its unlikely that AFFS will be able to pay the compensation  into Miss Ws pension  plan. If 
thats the case, it should pay the amount  direct  to her. But if it had been  possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income when Miss W takes the benefits. So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Miss Ws marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. I think  shes likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement.  The reduction should 
equal the current basic rate of tax. But, as Miss W would  have  been  able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation. 
Ref: DRN02005877Since the store pods investment is now illiquid  it cant readily be sold on the open market   
its value should  be treated  as nil. The resultant sum represents the redress due from AFFS 
to Miss W. AFFS can then arrange  to take ownership of the store  pods investment. If thats 
not possible, then Miss W can sign an undertaking that she will pay AFFS any future 
disbursements she may get from the store pods investment. That undertaking must allow  for 
any tax and charges  that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the SIPP. AFFS will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.  
I think its very likely  Miss W will have to maintain the SIPP for a period of time as the store 
pods investment cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP  from being  closed. If AFFS is unable 
to buy the store pods investment from the SIPP provider, it should  pay Miss W five years 
worth of SIPP fees to compensate her for these costs. 
In addition, AFFS should Pay Miss W £250  for the disruption caused  to her retirement 
planning. This is around the amount our service  typically awards in these situations. 
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Miss W in a clear, 
simple format. 
Finally, simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Miss W how much  has been 
taken off. AFFS should give Miss W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I then gave all parties  two weeks to raise  any further  points if they wished to do so. Miss Ws 
representative confirmed  it didnt have anything else to add. No response at all was received 
from the representative for AFFS, or AFFS itself.  
my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as no additional 
points have been raised, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings  and 
decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Miss W as set out above. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0200587