K820x#14complaint
Mr A is represented. His complaint is that Clydesdale Bank Plc (CBP) recommended  
unsuitable investments  to him in 1998 and 2000. His representative says  the 
recommendations were  too risky for him, they mismatched his novice investor profile, they 
did not take into account his mortgage  liability and they did not allow  him sufficient  reflection  
time.
background
CBP says documentation for the recommendations and investments are limited,  due to the 
passage of time. One of our investigators  considered the merits of the complaint based on 
the limited documents it provided (which  did not include  the fact find and suitability letter(s)) 
and on Mr As limited recollection of events surrounding the recommendations. She did not 
consider that the complaint should be upheld. In the main and in terms of the matter of 
suitability, she noted as follows:
In June 1998 Mr A invested £5,000 in the National  Australian  Stock  Market  Growth 
Fund (NASMGF),  within a Personal  Equity Plan (PEP); in April 2000 he invested  
£2,000 in the NASMGF within a Maxi  Individual  Savings Account (ISA) and £500  as 
a cash option.
Mr A cannot recall his income and expenditure at the time;  no available  
documentation provides this information; he recalls having around £20,000 
outstanding on his mortgage  but cannot  recall  the mortgage repayment 
arrangements; he considered himself to be a cautious investor  and recalls having  an 
objective for investment growth within  a tax efficient wrapper.
In November 2004 he liquidated around £580  from the cash  option of the Maxi ISA; 
in May 2008  he liquidated around  £7,500 from the other investments.
Making a payment  towards his mortgage,  at the outset, may not have been  in line 
with his objective to use his capital  to generate growth.
There is a lack of evidence about  the dates of advice. However, the investments 
gave him cancellation  rights  over 14 days, so he had enough  time to cancel them.
There is insufficient evidence to consider whether (or not) the investments were 
affordable. However, available  evidence shows that they were designed to be tax 
efficient and overall there is not enough  to say they were  too risky for him.
Mr As representative disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
It conceded the point about  the mortgage  repayment but argued that the investments were  
heavily weighted in equities, which created a mismatch with Mr As cautious  profile.  The 
investigator retained the view that there  is insufficient evidence to conclude that the 
recommendations were  unsuitable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator.
Time to reflect on the investments
Neither party produced  documents  related to the fact finding and recommendation 
processes in 1998 and 2000. Mr As recollections do not appear to extend to the details of 
Ref: DRN07114532how and when he was given advice, and how soon thereafter he proceeded with the 
investments. 
In terms of his representatives argument that he did not have sufficient  time to reflect on the 
investments, evidence is essentially limited to information  about when he made the 
investments  as noted above   and documentation showing the allowance  of 14 days he 
was given to cancel them. I too consider that this allowed him sufficient time to reflect  on the 
investments and to cancel  them  if he considered that he wished to.
Mortgage Liability
Mr As representative appears to have conceded the argument previously made  in this 
respect  that is, the argument that CBP was wrong not to have taken this liability  into 
consideration, in terms of Mr A making a repayment towards the mortgage  before investing.
For the sake of completeness, I do not consider there is enough evidence to find such  
wrongdoing. First, there is no documentary  evidence of what was discussed during the fact 
finding, suitability  assessment  and recommendation events surrounding the investments.   
Mr As recollection does not appear to have  filled this gap. Whether (or not) his mortgage 
liability was discussed  at the relevant times remains unknown. Furthermore, and as the 
investigator noted, it could  be argued that a mortgage repayment  could have mismatched  his 
objective to use his capital to generate investment growth.  
Novice Investor Profile
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that a PEP was automatically unsuitable for the 
novice investor profile Mr A says he had in 1998.  By 2000, when he invested  in the ISA, he 
had been an investor for around two years and could no longer reasonably  claim to be a 
novice investor. In the context of his objective  for growth within a tax efficient wrapper,  I 
consider that recommendation of the PEP and ISA was not unsuitable. Both had elements of 
growth and tax efficiency  for personal  investors within  their characteristics.
Risk
I understand the argument made by Mr As representative with regards to the equities based  
nature of the investments.  However, I do not consider that there is an automatic conclusion  
to be drawn about  their suitability solely for this reason. I note the investigators comment 
that investment  in equities is not automatically  beyond a cautious investor profile. I also note 
the submission from Mr As representative that an investment heavily or wholly  based on 
equities could  arguably be beyond such a profile. 
The lack of evidence  about the assessment  of Mr As risk profile  in 1998 and 2000 creates a 
difficulty for his representatives argument. Even  if it is accepted  that Mr A had an overall 
cautious attitude towards investment risks,  it is not uncommon for investment 
recommendations to be guided  by a particular objective and by a particular approach  
towards risk that might extend or contract  an investors overall risk profile. A cautious  
investor might decide to take on more risk for a specific investment or reason,  whilst  an 
adventurous investor might decide  to take on less risk for a specific investment or reason.
Evidence of Mr A investing  in the same  or comparable fund(s) between  1998 and 2000  
especially his decision to do so in 2000,  after around two years  experience  of the initial  
investment  suggests, on balance, that he was prepared  to take a particular approach with 
Ref: DRN07114533the investments.  That approach appears to have included the investment, mainly or wholly,  
in equities and it is possible that this approach  was influenced by his objective to generate  
growth with his capital.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that there  is enough evidence to say Mr As 
investments mismatched his approach towards  risk at the relevant times. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0711453