K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that esure  Insurance  Limited  automatically renewed her car insurance  
policy without her knowledge. When she tried to cancel it, she was told shed  have to pay the 
full cost of the premiums  for the year as a claim had been made.
background
Miss B says that in October 2018  she noticed esure  had taken an amount of money  from her 
account. She realised  her car insurance  policy had automatically renewed, which she says 
was without her knowledge  or consent. She wasnt happy with the renewal price,  as it had 
increased substantially,  and called esure to cancel the policy.  But esure said Miss B would 
have to pay the full annual  cost of the policy  as a claim had been made and was in the 
process of being  settled.  Miss B wasnt happy with this and complained  to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint explaining that information  from esure  showed  it 
had sent a renewal  invitation in August, which confirmed the policy  would automatically 
renew on 22 September. This happened  the previous  year too, so he was satisfied Miss B 
ought to have been aware of the process  and esure  had followed it correctly. 
Regarding the premium  increase, our adjudicator noted that Miss B had made  two fault 
claims in the 2017 period of insurance. This had been reflected in the renewal  price.  He 
explained that esure was entitled to consider  historical claims data when calculating the risk 
a customer represents,  and that our service wouldnt consider  this to be unfair.  
Miss B was involved in an accident  on 29 September (in the new policy year) and a claim 
was made.  As esure had accepted the claim by the time Miss B called to cancel the policy,  
our adjudicator said it was entitled to charge her the full cost of the policy in line with the 
policys terms and conditions. 
As Miss B didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached much  the same  conclusions 
as our adjudicator  for substantially the same reasons.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss B but I dont think theres a great deal I can add to what our 
adjudicator has said already.  For me to uphold  this complaint, Id have to be satisfied that 
esure had automatically  renewed the policy unfairly, for example, without Miss Bs consent 
or knowledge.
Ive seen a copy  of the renewal invite sent to Miss B in August 2018. This letter  states in bold 
blue writing that the policy will automatically  renew. I appreciate Miss B says she didnt 
receive this letter  but its addressed  correctly  so I cant hold esure liable for any failings in 
the postal system. In addition, esure  says this policy has been had automatically renewed  
previously. Im satisfied  esure made it sufficiently clear that the policy  would automatically  
renew, stated when and what Miss B should do if she didnt want it to renew. 
Ref: DRN02475512Miss B says she found  out that her policy had renewed in October 2018 when esure took the 
increased premium from her account. But I can see from the policy schedule that it renewed 
on 22 September 2018. Miss B hasnt provided us with proof  that shed taken car insurance 
out elsewhere in September 2018. So had her policy not renewed, she wouldve been 
driving without insurance and contrary to road traffic legislation. 
Miss B had an accident on 29 September 2018,  after her policy had renewed. And esure  
accepted and paid the claim. For this reason,  esure says Miss B is liable to pay the full cost 
of the years premium. This is outlined in the policys terms and conditions which say:
If any incidents have arisen during  the period of cover and a claim has been made  by you, 
or against you, we will cancel  your cover if you ask us to but not refund any premium. If you 
are paying  by instalments, you must still pay us the balance of the full annual  premium.
I appreciate Miss B isnt happy with the renewal  price  for 2018. It had substantially increased 
from the year before.  But Miss B had made  two faults claims during the 2017 to 2018 period 
of insurance; one in May 2018  and the other in July 2018. This understandably  had an 
impact on the renewal premium. esure says Miss B had a fault claim in the 2016 to 2017 
period of insurance too. This claims history wouldve been considered when calculating the 
renewal premium and its not surprising or unusual that such  a claims history has caused the 
price to increase.  
esure has told us that it paid out £2,020.52 for Miss Bs claim in September 2018. As she 
cancelled her direct debit, esure hasnt received the cost of the policy  for that year. Miss B is 
liable to pay this cost, which I understand to be £2,290.71. It has been  suggested that 
Miss B could buy back the claim,  instead of paying  the policy premium. And as this is 
cheaper, she may want to discuss this further  with esure to see whether its an option 
available to her and if esure can offer terms of payment, such as instalments.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0247551