K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined her claim on her 
home insurance policy after an escape of water at her property.
background
Mrs C had a home insurance policy with RSA for a property  that she rented out. On 
2 February 2017  she visited  the property and found a leak from a tank in the loft that had 
caused damage to a number of rooms. She made a claim on her insurance.  
The property didnt  have  tenants at the time of the escape of water. Mrs C told RSA that her 
last tenants had moved out on 16 January 2017.  RSA accepted  the claim and work began  to 
dry the property. 
Later that year Mrs C realised  she had made  a mistake about when her tenants had moved  
out. She realised theyd  moved out on 16 December 2016 rather  in in January as she 
originally said. She told RSA. 
RSA said as the house had been  unoccupied since 16 December 2016, this meant at the 
time the escape  of water  was found  it had been  unoccupied for 48 days.  The policy  states 
that the house must not be unoccupied  for more than 45 days. RSA investigated a possible 
misrepresentation but concluded that Mrs C had made  an honest mistake.  However it said 
that it wouldnt have  accepted the claim on this basis so said Mrs C would need to refund  it 
around £15,000 it had paid for the repairs so far. 
Mrs C didnt think this was fair and complained to RSA. She said as it was an honest 
mistake RSA should honour the claim.
RSA didnt uphold  the complaint as it said the repairs  would never  have been covered if 
Mrs C had given the correct date initially. However  it said it would no longer seek recovery of 
its costs as a gesture  of good will.
Mrs C wasnt happy with RSAs response. She said it had provided poor customer service 
and delayed the repair process.  So although  she made a mistake, it wasnt fair that she 
would now have to pay for the rest of the repairs. She bought  her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend Mrs Cs complaint be 
upheld. He said as the policy stated it wouldnt cover  damages if a property is unoccupied for 
more than 45 days then he couldnt recommend RSA pay the rest of the claim.
Mrs C disagreed with this. She though  RSA should meet  her half way with the additional 
costs as it had delayed the process  up until that point. She asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN07415862RSA has said that as the property was unoccupied for more than 45 days,  cover  wouldnt be 
provided under the policy. In the section detailing cover for escape  of water, the policy lists 
the following  under  what  is not covered:
Damage to Buildings and Landlords Contents of Residential Properties which have been 
Unoccupied for over 45 consecutive days
So I can see that usually  cover wouldnt be provided  if the property was unoccupied for more 
than 45 days.  In this case  the leak was discovered on 2 February  48 days  after the tenants  
moved out. As Mrs C has said she checked the property a few days before this - on 30 
January - and had found no problems, it seems  the escape of water happened  outside of the 
45 day period. I therefore agree this exclusion would apply.
Mrs C says she made an honest mistake by giving the incorrect date, and RSA accepts this. 
However as the information made  a difference to the cover the policy  provided,  I think it was 
right for RSA to reassess the claim when this came  to light. I need to decide if RSA has 
treated Mrs C fairly and reasonably by declining her claim and stopping  payment for work.
In order to decide this, I have  considered  what would have happened if Mrs C hadnt given 
incorrect information initially.  If she had told RSA the correct  date her tenants had moved out 
when she raised  the claim, she probably would  have been informed at that time that the 
policy wouldnt cover  the repairs. She would then have  had to arrange and pay for the 
repairs herself. As she didnt, RSA started the repairs that werent actually  covered  by the 
policy. It has agreed not to pursue the costs of this. Therefore Mrs C is in a better  position  
than she would have  been in if she hadnt  made  the mistake - as the repairs were started 
and Mrs C hasnt had to pay for that part. 
Mrs C says that she doesnt feel she is in a better position as RSA caused a number  of 
avoidable delays  which have led to it taking longer for the work to be completed.  She says if 
she had organised the work herself  it would have been completed more quickly so would 
have caused less inconvenience. 
I have considered this and I agree  that the work was subject to some delays. And I agree it 
is probable that it would have been  completed  more quickly if the claim had been declined  
immediately and she had arranged the work herself. However if the claim had been declined 
she would  have had to pay for the complete cost of the repairs herself. As it stands RSA has 
covered £15,000  worth  of repairs. I appreciate the delays have caused Mrs C distress and 
inconvenience, however as RSA have decided not to pursue its costs it has already  paid a 
large amount of a claim that would not have  been paid if Mrs C hadnt made  a mistake.  I 
think this is enough  to make up for the distress  and inconvenience it caused.  
Mrs C also says if she had arranged the work  herself she would have used a different 
contractor and agreed a more reasonable price for the work. She says she has ended  up 
paying more than she would have done by using RSAs contractor. However  it would have 
been Mrs Cs decision to continue work  with these  contractors- this wasnt  a requirement 
once the insurer  declined the claim. Further, the damage caused by an escape of water is 
often costly to repair.  And Mrs C hasnt provided  any other quotes to show  that work could 
have been done more  cheaply. However regardless, the first part of the claim was still paid 
for by RSA.  And it seems likely that had Mrs C paid for the full work  from start to finish  
with a different  contractor,  it wouldnt have been cheaper than paying for part of the work 
with RSAs contractor.  I am therefore not persuaded that using RSAs  contractors has 
caused Mrs C to pay more than she would have done otherwise. 
Ref: DRN07415863For these reasons I dont  think  RSA treated  Mrs C unfairly by declining  the claim after she 
confirmed the correct date her tenants  moved out. And by not pursuing costs for work  
already carried out, it has made up for any distress  and inconvenience it caused.  I therefore 
wont require it do anything further or differently. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint and dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to do anything  additional.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0741586