K822xcomplaint
Ms R complained because she found  out at the end of her mortgage product that she could
have made  overpayments   but her mortgage  offer from Bank of Scotland  plc (trading
as Birmingham Midshires)  had said she couldnt do so without paying an early  repayment
charge.
Ms R said shed have made  the maximum 10% overpayments. So shed lost money
because of the incorrect information.
background
In March 2016, Ms R took out her first buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. She
borrowed £249,290  on an interest only basis, with a fixed interest rate product  of 3.49% until
the end of March  2018. Section 11 of her mortgage offer document  said:
You  are free to make lump sum or regular overpayments tothis mortgage, however the
early repayment charges   detailed in section 10 will apply.
Section 10 set out that shed have  to pay 3% of the capital repaid if she did so before the
end of March  2017  and 2% if she did so before the end of March 2018.
On 27 November 2017, Ms R contacted Birmingham Midshires.  She said she knew her fixed
term would  be ending  soon, and she wanted  to know the balance, and whether she could
pay off part of the loan at that point. Birmingham Midshires told Ms R that she could have
made 10% overpayments  throughout the term of her mortgage.
Ms R was annoyed, because she said shed have  paid the 10% overpayments throughout
the term. She complained, and pointed out that section 11 of the offer was very clear  that
overpayments werent an option without incurring  an early  repayment charge. So she was
out of pocket because the mortgage  offer was misleading.
Ms R didnt get a prompt reply and had to chase  on 21 December.
On 8 January  2018, Birmingham Midshires said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that it didnt
choose to include  the overpayment facility  in its offer, because  it was a concession  it could
withdraw at any point. And it also argued that, as Ms R had used a broker, the broker  should
have told her about the overpayment concession. It paid Ms R £75 compensation for its
delay in replying  to her.
Ms R wasnt  satisfied, and replied saying that Birmingham  Midshires letter felt like a generic
letter and she felt the bank hadnt listened.  She quoted section 11 of the offer, and also the
charges which  were set out in section 10. These showed shed been told shed have  had to
pay £7,470 before the end of March 2017, and £4,979 before the end of March  2018. This
was why she hadnt overpaid. She calculated that, as shed have paid the full 10%
overpayment, shed lost £3,000.
Birmingham Midshires didnt agree. But it paid her another £75 because it had delayed in
replying to Ms Rs second letter too.
Ms R wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
Ref: DRN01809612The investigator asked  Ms R about  the overpayments shed have made.  Ms R explained that
she had just under £25,000 in a savings account,  and the investigator asked for evidence.
Birmingham Midshires told the investigator that it would  have  expected the broker  to tell
Ms R about  the full details of the mortgage.  It also argued that when making  an
overpayment, borrowers  would  have  to ring the bank to get the bank details to make  the
payment, and Ms R hadnt done  that.
The investigator upheld  Ms Rs complaint in part. As a result,  Birmingham Midshires made
an offer to Ms R of £1,573.41. This was the figure it had worked  out that Ms R had lost in just
one year, rather than two years, by not making  overpayments. It calculated  that this was the
interest figure, reduced  by what it believed Ms R had got in savings interest  on the money
she hadnt used  on overpayments.
The investigator asked  Ms R for more information  about her savings, income,  and financial
situation. Ms R provided this, and said shed have been able to make  an overpayment  of
£12,708 in the second year.  She produced bank statements showing her monthly disposable
income was over £1,000.
The investigator then issued a second view. She agreed  with Birmingham Midshires  that it
should only reimburse Ms R for one year, not two. She said this was because Ms R hadnt
put the money into a separate savings account.
Ms R wasnt  satisfied with this. She said Birmingham Midshires  had misled her, and
probably other customers. She pointed out that shed had the money  to overpay, but hadnt
done so because the bank had threatened penalties if she did. So she was worse  off.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciated that Ms R felt strongly  about this. I could understand why she felt it was unfair
and misleading  that the terms and conditions of her mortgage made it clear that if she 
overpaid, shed  be charged a significant  early repayment charge  when  in fact she could
have overpaid  without incurring this.
But the trouble  is that the opportunity to make  overpayments without  an early repayment
charge wasnt, technically, a term and condition of her mortgage. It was just a concession.
Lenders do often have concessions available on products. But they arent required to
publicise these. They will tell consumers about them if the consumer speaks to them about
something the concession would assist  with  which is what  Ms R did towards  the end of the
fixed product term. Birmingham Midshires told her at that point, which  is all it was required to
do. I recognised  that this is unattractive to a consumer like Ms R who feels  shes  been 
misled  but its all the bank is obliged to do.
Another key factor here was that Birmingham Midshires was the lender, but Ms R had been
recommended to take out the mortgage  by a broker. So it would be the broker  whod be
responsible for ensuring that Ms R was given full information about  the mortgage.  The
broker had a responsibility to discuss Ms Rs circumstances  in detail with her. And if Ms R
had made  it clear to the broker that shed  like to make overpayments, it would have  been  up
to the broker to tell her about Birmingham Midshires concession.  Concessions can always
Ref: DRN01809613be withdrawn, so if this was a really important factor for Ms R, the broker  would probably
have recommended a different lender or product.  But this complaint is against  Birmingham
Midshires  which didnt  have this responsibility. I explained that I couldnt  consider any 
complaint Ms R might have about  the broker as part of this complaint about  Birmingham 
Midshires.
I also pointed out that this mortgage was technically a commercial one. Ms R had told us it 
was her first buy-to-let mortgage,  so again  Id have expected the broker  to point out the
differences. But the rules tend to be less flexible with a commercial mortgage than with a
residential one.
I did appreciate that Ms R will be very upset, and I could quite see why she believed
Birmingham Midshires wasnt open and transparent  with her  and didnt treat her fairly.  But
the fact that the overpayment facility was a concession  means that it was allowed to withhold
this information,  and I didnt have the power  to uphold  Ms Rs complaint.
I noted that when  our investigator proposed to uphold this complaint, Birmingham Midshires
made an offer to Ms R. I explained  that as I wasnt upholding this complaint, I wasnt making 
an award against the bank. However, I pointed  out that it was within Birmingham  Midshires  
remit to maintain its offer should  it wish to do so. I asked  the bank to confirm  whether it 
wanted to maintain its offer to Ms R when it responded to the provisional  decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Birmingham Midshiress response  to the provisional decision was that although Id agreed  
that the bank hadnt made an error, it would be happy to honour its previous offer of 
£1,573.41. It said this would be subject to Ms R signing  her agreement to this, and providing 
her current  bank details. 
Ms R said she was really disappointed with the decision, and really disappointed  that banks  
were allowed to get away with this. She said that, as a private person, when you receive  
your mortgage offer letter from your bank, you always understand them  to be your terms and 
conditions. She pointed out that you adhere  to these otherwise you face penalties  or other 
consequences. She said that to discover  that one particular clause isnt actually part of the 
terms and conditions, despite being listed with the rest of the terms, was impossible. She 
said that Birmingham  Midshires  hadnt communicated this to her in any way. 
Ms R pointed out that every document shed received  had consistently  referred  to section 11 
of the offer letter. If an overpayment facility had been mentioned,  shed have phoned and 
asked the bank to clarify this. She also felt that as the facility to overpay had actually  been  
there for the whole two years  shed had the mortgage, it meant that the offer was false  from 
the start.
Ms R said that the decision feels really  unfair.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN01809614I do understand why Ms R is upset. But clause 11 of her mortgage offer, relating to early  
repayment charges,  was part of the terms and conditions  of her mortgage.  The concession  
which let Ms R off this clause wasnt part of the terms  and conditions.
I appreciate why Ms R feels  its unfair that Birmingham  Midshires  didnt have to 
communicate the concession to her, unless  shed specifically asked about something related 
to that concession. As she points out, she didnt  know  that the concession  was there, so she 
couldnt have  asked about it. 
But the fact is that banks  can offer concessions  which dont form part of the terms and 
conditions  and they dont have  to tell customers about them.  So I cant uphold  Ms Rs 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
However, Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has agreed to honour its previous offer of 
£1,573.41. This is separate from the £75 it paid her in January 2018 for the delay in replying  
to her complaint. If Ms R would like to accept this, she should get in touch with us to make 
the necessary  arrangements.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0180961