K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mrs W took out on the advice 
of St James Place Wealth Management Plc (SJ) in 2007. The complaint is that the lifetime 
mortgage was mis-sold.  Mrs W is represented in the complaint by Mrs Q.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words, and rounding the figures  involved. No discourtesys intended by that; 
its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
In 2007, in reliance  on advice  and a recommendation  from SJ, Mrs W borrowed £30,000 on 
an equity release mortgage, from a lender Ill call JR. The terms of the mortgage provide that 
no monthly repayments are required. The mortgage is only due to be repaid if the property is 
sold voluntarily, or if the last surviving  borrower  goes  into full-time nursing care or after their 
death. Interest  on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded.  
This means  that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a significant balance  to 
be repaid.
In 2018, Mrs W complained that the mortgage had been mis-sold.  The essence of the 
complaint is that Mrs W already had around  £120,000  in personal savings, and therefore had 
no need for the mortgage. Our investigator  initially thought the mortgage  might have been 
unnecessary, and at his suggestion, SJ put forward a proposal to unwind the mortgage and 
put Mrs W back in the position shed have  been in if shed never taken it out. 
SJs offer was contingent  on Mrs W having kept the money shed borrowed untouched, such  
that it was available to be returned.  When the investigator asked Mrs W to confirm that the 
money was available, she telephoned  the investigator and told him she had used the money 
to buy a car and items for her home. Mrs W also said her real concern was to do with how 
much she now owed,  due to the interest that had accrued since  she took the mortgage out.
After considering what Mrs W had told him during the conversation,  the investigator  revised  
his opinion on the complaint, concluding that as Mrs W had used the money  in the manner  
recorded in the point-of-sale documentation, the mortgage hadnt been  mis-sold. Mrs W has 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. 
my findings
In this decision I have  looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what  was regarded  as 
good industry practice at the time) and considered  generally whether SJ did anything  wrong  
when the mortgage was taken out. Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. That included 
listening to a recording of Mrs Ws phone conversation  with our investigator in August 2020.
Ref: DRN00759892If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what  
we consider is most likely  to have happened, on the balance of probabilities.  Thats broadly 
the same  test that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2007.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual  
recollections (or, as here, the testimony  of others  who werent present at, or involved in, the 
sale) at a distance  of time which, although given in good faith,  can sometimes be inaccurate 
or contradictory. So unless theres  a compelling reason to believe the contemporaneous 
information is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
A dispute has arisen over a key component  of the point-of-sale documentation; specifically a 
document called  a suitability letter. The purpose of the suitability letter is for the advisor to 
summarise the information  the consumer has given about their circumstances and 
objectives, the course of action the advisor  has recommended  to fulfil those objectives, and 
the reasons why that course  of action has been  selected over other alternatives.  In Mrs Ws 
case, the suitability letter SJ provided  when  it responded to Mrs Ws complaint is dated 
7 February 2007,  and it sets out everything  I just listed. 
The difficulty  is that when  she saw the copy SJ provided Mrs W denied  ever having received  
the original in 2007. Not only that, she has described everything in it as lies and cast doubt  
on its authenticity,  because its on plain paper and unsigned. 
I cant know for certain if Mrs W received the suitability letter  or not back  in 2007, but I deal 
with her comments on its authenticity and accuracy. This is a copy  of the document.  When  
such a copy is generated,  its normal for it to be printed on plain  paper  and unsigned. So in 
that regard, Ive no concerns about the authenticity of the suitability letter.
As regards  the accuracy of its content, that rather goes back  to what  I said earlier about the 
reliability of peoples recollections, especially when,  as here, the events took place more 
than ten years previously. I cant know how accurate the references  to Mrs Ws family and 
their awareness or otherwise of what was being  considered are, but much  of the content 
about Mrs Ws broader circumstances  and objectives at the time has been shown by 
subsequent events to have been  demonstrably accurate. 
In contrast, and I dont mean this unkindly,  the evidence  weve  received from Mrs W has 
been contradictory. The following is taken directly from Mrs Ws complaint letter  of 26 
October 2018 to SJ:
Mr [advisors name]  claims, that he recommended that I take out a lump  sum of £30,000 to 
buy a new car and build a new garage,  (I already had a car and garage that still stands), 
fitted wardrobes to match the bedroom  (I already had them),  fitting French  doors (I didn't 
need French doors, I didn't want them and still don't have them),  having decking in the 
garden (I never wanted decking  and already had a landscaped garden) and replacing back 
and front doors  (they didn't need replacing  , thus I didn't do so). Clearly this is all fabrication.
But in her phone conversation with our investigator in August 2020, after hed asked her to 
show she still had the money untouched in order that SJ could implement the settlement 
offer, Mrs W said she had bought  a car, and had installed  wardrobes in one of the bedrooms 
in her home, using  the borrowed money to do so. 
Ref: DRN00759893The following  is also taken from Mrs Ws letter  to SJ of 26 October 2018:
It IS quite  clear that I did not need  to borrow money.
But again,  in her phone conversation with the investigator in August 2020,  Mrs W repeatedly  
denied ever having said she didnt need the money,  when  clearly she had. Conversely, 
during the same conversation, Mrs W also reverted to the claim that she didnt need the 
money.
In the end though, the nub of the complaint (at least as first presented)  can be found in 
something about which theres  no ambiguity.  Mrs W did have around £120,000 of personal 
savings and did have  spending plans adding up to about £30,000. And its now apparent that 
Mrs W did carry out those spending plans; she bought a car and had improvements carried  
out on her home and used the money  from the equity release mortgage to pay for it. In 
addition, I note that later Mrs W also, on SJs suggestion, put £4,000 in a further  investment. 
The critical question that invites (one that Mrs W asked the advisor several times in their 
phone conversation)  is Why would she borrow the money when she already  had it?.
At first glance, it might seem self-evident that a person would use their own money  to realise  
their spending  plans before borrowing. But its not at all uncommon for people  to borrow  
rather than disturb their existing savings,  especially  when, as was the case  with Mrs W, 
much of that savings is being used to provide a regular income to top up her pension. Mrs W 
told our investigator on the phone  that she didnt need that income; that may or may not be 
true, but its a statement  made with the benefit of several years worth  of hindsight. 
In 2007, SJs advice  was that Mrs W did need the income that her savings gave her, and it 
seems Mrs W agreed at the time; albeit I note she says she ended  that arrangement in 
2013. Im not persuaded it would  be fair or reasonable  to declare the advice unsuitable,  and 
the mortgage mis-sold,  because Mrs W appears now to have changed her mind. To do that 
would require me to make  a value judgement; in effect second-guessing the extent  to 
which Mrs W did or didnt need her investment income in 2007.
One of the points Mrs W made in conversation with the investigator was that her complaint  
was really motivated  by the growth  in the mortgage debt as a result of the accrued interest. I 
understand her sentiment but retrospective  regret at having  bought  something doesnt  of 
itself indicate it was mis-sold. But in any event I dont see why the accrual of interest should 
only be a factor now. 
Its normal for interest on an equity release mortgage to roll up, and then to attract  further 
interest on a compounding  basis. The effect  of this was demonstrated  to Mrs W in monetary 
terms in the mortgage offer in 2007.  I cant know how much of the information in the 
mortgage offer Mrs W was able to assimilate;  she told our investigator on the phone  that she 
had no idea how the equity mortgage  worked  at the time but does now because of research 
shes done since. 
I accept that these are complex matters for a lay person such  as Mrs W, but before the 
mortgage could  proceed,  Mrs W was required  to have  independent  legal advice from a 
solicitor, who certified that the terms of the mortgage  had been  explained  to Mrs W. I think  
that if there  were any concerns that Mrs W didnt  understand the nature and effect of what  
she was signing,  the solicitor  wouldnt  have  provided  the certification and allowed her to 
proceed.
Ref: DRN00759894Mrs W asks why its not possible to revert to the settlement proposal that SJ offered her. 
That offer was, as I mentioned earlier, made on the understanding  that Mrs W had never 
used the money  from the equity mortgage and still had it available  to hand back.  Its now 
known that Mrs W did use the money   pretty  much in the manner described in the suitability 
letter  and doesnt have it to hand  back.  Spending the borrowed money in the way she did 
meant Mrs W has preserved  her savings and accrued the benefits theyve brought  her in the 
years since.  
When youre as close to a difficult situation  as Mrs W has been for so long here, its a natural 
subjective reaction  to see things one way. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, 
and impartial, and sometimes that means  stepping  back from the fine detail and taking an 
overview. It also means that Im not required to provide answers  to every specific  question 
that comes up, if I dont  consider doing so will affect the overall  outcome.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W, or Mrs Q 
on her behalf, to accept  or reject my decision before  21 January 2021.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0075989