K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Northern Bank  Limited  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with a credit  card. 
background
Briefly:
In 1996 Mr R took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card during a branch 
meeting. The policy  was designed  to protect  Mr Rs card payments in the event  he couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost a little less than 70 pence for every  £100 Mr R owed on the card.  And it 
would pay a benefit of 10% of the outstanding  balance each month  for up to 12 months.
At the time of the sale Mr R was employed and hes told us he was entitled to three  months 
full sick pay but he had no other means he could use to make  his payments. He also said he 
was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator recommended the mis-sale complaint shouldnt be upheld. They said the 
evidence showed  Mr R chose to take out PPI on his credit card application and there  was 
nothing to suggest PPI was unsuitable  for him. So they said Northern Bank  didnt need to 
give Mr R back  everything he paid for the policy.
But later on they said Northern Bank will give Mr R back  some of what he paid for PPI in 
relation to high commission and profit share.
Mr R disagrees  with the adjudicators view, so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided Mr R hasnt lost out to the extent that he should get back  
everything he paid for PPI because:
I think Northern Bank  made  it clear  that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Northern Bank has provided  a copy of Mr Rs credit card application from the time.  
And here I can see there  is a tick in the box to take out PPI. This was a separate 
section where I think it was made clear that this was a separate  product from the 
credit card. Mr R also signed  the overall application.
So overall I think Mr R chose to take out PPI and he did so without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN07895462Northern Bank says it recommended the PPI to Mr R. And Ive no reason to doubt 
what it says about how it conducted  sales during this time - so it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for Mr R. Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Rs circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need for the cover. While Mr R says 
he was entitled  to some sick pay, the policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and 
for longer  if necessary.  Mr R also didnt have any other  means he could fall back  on.  
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. For example other  than a brief description of PPI on the credit 
application, Mr R wouldve had to look at the policy document to find out the 
important information about it. But he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for him if something  
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because : 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  it didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - including  what hes said in his letter  in 
response to the adjudicators opinion of his complaint. But these points  dont change  my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr R any commission  and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank should also pay back  to Mr R any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
So Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr R the 
difference between  what  he owes and what he wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank  should  also pay 
Mr R 8% simple  interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr Rs not lost out as a result  of taking 
out PPI to the extent Northern Bank Limited  has to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
R.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN07895463Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0789546