K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Crowdcube Capital  Limited  failed to ensure that information about an 
investment opportunity on its platform was fair, clear and not misleading. As a result, Mr L 
invested in a company without accurate information  about it and suffered  a financial loss. 
background
Crowdcube is an equity-based  crowdfunding platform that promotes investment 
opportunities to consumers. These  investment opportunities tend to be in small, start-up 
companies that are looking  to raise capital. The investment opportunities are presented  on 
its platform by way of pitches  that is statements that explain,  among other  things, what 
the company does,  how financially sound  it is, why it is raising capital and what, if any, future 
plans it has. 
In July 2018 Crowdcube approved a pitch by a company Ill call Company A. Among the 
information about Company A, the pitch said that it had brought together  three of the biggest 
names in digital estate  agency into one. It said that as a result, this combination would result 
in it becoming the second largest  player in the rapidly growing online and hybrid  sector.  
The pitch  contained  information about  what Company A was intending  to do with the capital 
raised. Within the section  financials, it said that the majority of the funds would be targeted 
at marketing, developing its proprietary  technology platform  and maintaining a world  class 
team. 
It confirmed that the merger deal, completed in May 2018,  attracted an additional £6m from 
existing shareholders  plus £9m in media  for equity.  It said that group was planning an Initial  
Public Offering (IPO) in the first quarter of 2019.  
Mr L considered the pitch and information provided on Crowdcubes website about Company 
A, and decided to invest £1,000. Shortly after his investment,  Crowdcube  sent Mr L a 
confirmation email that Company As fundraising round had closed. It gave Mr L an 
opportunity to consider a legal review  document, that set out the fundamental aspects of his 
investment (for example  the share price, the type of shares,  the overall amount of equity 
raised), and gave him a deadline by when he could pull out of the investment if he wanted  to. 
A second email  of this nature was sent to Mr L because Company  A had decided that it 
would reduce the share price, but allocate more  shares to investors. The email  explained 
that:
As we are in a transition  phase following our recent merger [], which has not yet been  fully 
integrated, and acknowledging the future funding the business  will require which we do not 
wish to disadvantage you on should this be raised  at a lower  price, we are now offering the 
shares in this round at a more favourable price than originally planned. 
As a result, Mr L was given a new cooling  off period during which  he could decide to pull out 
of the investment. Mr L chose to remain invested and the round was finalised.  
In November 2018 Company As CEO gave an interview in which he indicated that the 
money from the merger  (mentioned in the pitch)  hadnt been forthcoming. He reportedly 
explained that they did the merger [] back in June  and the deal was constructed  around a 
certain amount  of money  coming in. Shareholders in [Company B] and [Company  C] 
pledged to provide a certain  amount of money  to the business, and lets just say that on 
[Company B]s side that money has not been  forthcoming. 
Ref: DRN00825322At around the same time, or shortly  after, Company  A appointed administrators. In January 
2019 the administrators reported  on the status  of Company A, including its financial 
circumstances, debtors and the circumstances which gave rise to their appointment. Most of 
the information contained in the report isnt relevant to the matters complained about. 
However, paragraphs 2.2 and 2.3 of this report are important, because  they underpin Mr Ls 
overall complaint.  
In paragraph 2.2, the administrators explain  (Company B, Company C, Company D and 
Company E are names of other companies):
The company acquired [Company  B] and [Company C] in May 2018.  Company A was a 
direct competitor and it was considered that an amalgamation of the two businesses would 
assist in facilitating an IPO in due course.  At the time of the acquisition, [Company D] was 
granted a fixed  and floating debenture over the assets of the Company, with [Company B] 
and [Company C] giving  cross guarantees. The company also acquired the share capital of 
[Company E] in June 2018. Following  these acquisitions there was speculation that the 
market value of the merged  businesses  might be in the region of £100m.
The report  goes on to explain, in paragraph  2.3 and 2.4, that:
The company began  the process  of merging its operations with those of [Company B] and 
[Company C] but at the time of the appointment of administrators  this process was 
incomplete. Draft results  of the year ended 30 April 2018 indicate  that the Group sustained a 
loss before taxation for that year of approximately  £10.5m with net liabilities at the year-end 
of approximately  £900,000.
The group prepared consolidated management accounts following the acquisition of 
[Company C] and [Company B]. By the date of administration, September 2018 
management accounts were completed  but the October 2018 management accounts 
remained in draft. The September 2018 management accounts indicate  a loss for the Group 
for the five months to September 2018 of approximately £15m. 
Shortly after this report, Company A was wound up. Mr L complained  to Crowdcube. He said 
that the statement made by Company As CEO contradicted the claims made in the pitch  
about the merger  having been completed and the amount that had been  raised  as a result. 
Mr L said that this meant that if Crowdcube  couldnt  provide the evidence  that these  claims 
had been checked, he expected it to refund his investment.  
Crowdcube looked into Mr Ls concerns, but concluded that it hadnt  done anything wrong. In 
short it said:
It underlined on its platform that there  was a very real risk when investing  in startups 
and growth companies. It said that it wasnt able to provide Mr L the evidence it had 
been given by Company A at the time, but it assured him that Company As pitch  
was reviewed according to [Crowdcubes] due diligence  charter and approved  as a 
financial promotion. 
Whilst it verified claims  made  in the pitch, it did not verify  claims made  outside  the 
pitch or raised after crowdfunding round. 
Mr L received a cooling off email  which explained  that Company A was reducing its 
valuation and that it was looking to raise  additional funding. Mr L had an opportunity 
at this point to withdraw from the investment if he had concerns. 
Ref: DRN00825323Mr L remained unhappy, and referred  his complaint to this service. He reiterated  the 
complaint points above, and said that he thought Crowdcube had deliberately  misled  
investors in order to attract new investment. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ls complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
short, she concluded that Crowdcube had independently verified the accuracy of Company 
As claim  in the pitch that a merger  had been  completed. She explained  that the reference to 
financials associated with the merger including a number  of future contracts, some of which 
didnt materialise due to Company A going  into administration.  
Mr L didnt agree and asked  for a decision.  He said:
It was misleading for the pitch to have referred to the £6m raised from existing 
shareholders, when  that money hadnt  in fact been raised  and didnt materialise. Mr L 
said that if the pitch had explained that this was money that was pledged, and not 
guaranteed, he wouldve drawn  different conclusions. 
Companies house didnt confirm completed mergers, but only the initiation of a 
merger. Mr L said the administrators  report clearly demonstrated  that the merger 
hadnt completed. He said that the risk level of a company initiating a merger, and 
one that had completed it, were very different.  And he said he thought  this showed 
that Crowdcube hadnt completed  the relevant  checks with due care, or any level of 
skill expected  of a Crowdfunding platform. 
Crowdcube had a financial incentive to ensure  the crowdfunding round was 
successful. 
The discussions section on Crowdcubes  platform  was misleading, and was 
integrated into the pitch. Mr L said this visually gave it the same legitimacy as the rest 
of the information on the pitch page.  He said that Crowdcube ought  to have clearly 
signposted that it treated the discussion section  differently to the pitch. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying  that Ive considered all Mr Ls points, and I acknowledge he has 
waited a long time for a decision on his case to be reached. However,  I hope  he doesnt take 
it as discourtesy that Ive not addressed every  point he has made in support of his complaint. 
The purpose of my decision is to focus on the key issues in the complaint, and explain my 
findings. 
In this case, the key issue in my view is the extent to which Company As pitch was fair, 
clear and not misleading. And, in particular,  whether the pitch exaggerated  or otherwise 
misled investors into thinking that Company A was merging with two other companies and 
that this merger would  attract additional  capital investment. 
Crowdcubes investor terms sets out the terms and conditions forming the basis of this 
relationship. These explain: 
Ref: DRN008253248.2. The Investor  acknowledges  that Crowdcube  approves each Pitch  as a financial 
promotion but does not provide  advice or any form of recommendation regarding the 
suitability or quality of the Investment  
8.3. The Investor acknowledges and accepts  that the Website includes a forum which is 
an integral part of an Investees  Pitch which is intended as a service to Investees to put them  
in contact with Investors, and thus that Crowdcubes investigation of the Investees and the 
content of their Pitches is limited, and accordingly Crowdcube makes  no warranty  or 
representation and assumes no liability in respect of the Investees or the content of their 
Pitches. The Investor must make his/her own assessment of the viability,  accuracy and 
prospects of the Investees, their Pitches,  and any relevant investment propositions and 
should consult  his/her  professional advisers should  he/she require any assistance in making  
such an assessment or should the Investor require any services  whatsoever in connection 
with Crowdcube. In particular, the attention of the Investors is drawn to the disclaimer, risk 
warning and regulatory notice on each Pitch.  
Its clear from the investor terms that Crowdcube  provides potential investors with different 
investment opportunities by way of pitches, but importantly, it gives no advice or 
recommendations to its investors. Ultimately, the decision to invest is made at the investors 
own risk and Crowdcube encourages them to do their own research. This is also explained 
in Crowdcubes  due diligence charter:  
Crowdcube does not endorse any of the businesses raising finance on the platform, nor do 
we provide investment advice of any description,  so before deciding to invest we strongly  
encourage all Crowdcube members to undertake their own research  and if there is 
uncertainty, to receive independent advice before investing. 
Crowdcube also has risk warnings on its platform to ensure  investors are made aware of the 
risks involved in investing via crowdfunding. The following  risk warning was provided on 
Crowdcubes platform at the time Mr L invested  in Company A: 
Investing in start-ups and early stage businesses  involves  risks,  including illiquidity, lack of 
dividends, loss of investment  and dilution,  and it should be done only as part of a diversified 
portfolio.
This included a link to read Crowdcubes  full risk warning  which provided more  detail of the 
risks involved. 
In addition to these terms, Crowdcube also needed  to comply with the wider  regulatory 
landscape. For completeness,  Ive set it out below  as it applies to this case:
Regulatory and legal framework 
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised 
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms  are 
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook  of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  1.1.1G, says The Principles apply  in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles  here are:
Ref: DRN00825325PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients,  
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.  
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.  
So before approving Company As promotional material,  Crowdcube  needed  to satisfy itself 
that the material itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied 
that by approving the promotion  and allowing its customers to invest in Company  A, it would 
continue to be acting  in its clients best interests.  
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature  of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material itself,  Crowdcube  would need  to carry out reasonable 
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what  they might  be in any given 
case, is something which is very much left to each provider  to determine and would vary 
according to the particular  circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt  the regulators intention  to 
provide a set of tick boxes which needed  to be completed for a promotion to be approved. 
Ive also borne in mind  that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle  6 (PRIN 2.1.1R)  and the clients  best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough  due diligence to satisfy  itself on the essential  
information on which any communication  or promotion is based.
Whilst I appreciate Mr L had invested  prior to the publication of the consultation paper and 
guidance, I consider  the paper clarifies the applicable rules and guidance at the time  rather 
than setting new ones.  
In looking at the pitch and the due diligence which Crowdcube carried  out, Im satisfied 
Crowdcube did take all relevant  actions to ensure that Company A wasnt  making  misleading  
statements in its pitch. 
I acknowledge that Mr L refers to the administrators report which says that at the time of 
Company As administration,  the merger hadnt yet completed. But that same report  
indicates, quite  clearly, that the acquisition of the two competitors had in fact occurred in 
May 2018, as described in the pitch. Im satisfied that it wasnt  misleading for Company A to 
Ref: DRN00825326suggest that a merger  had been carried out  even if not all operations had fully merged at 
the time of the crowdfunding round. 
In terms of the pitchs claims about existing investments being raised, the evidence indicates  
that Company  A had benefitted  from £5.5 million of investment prior to the promotion. This 
was in the form of convertible loan notes and debentures from existing shareholders,  as well 
as a £500,000 loan facility  from Company As bank. This information  was also set out in the 
legal review document that was sent to Mr L. So Im not persuaded it was misleading  for the 
pitch to have made reference  to these funds  and it seems to me Crowdcube did what  was 
required to ensure that this claim was fact checked.  
Having considered all this evidence, I dont consider Crowdcube  acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably by approving Company As pitch. I consider it took all reasonable steps to 
establish that the pitch was fair, clear  and not misleading  and I dont consider it can be 
held responsible for legal  commitments made to Company A which werent  adhered to. 
I understand that, ultimately, Mr Ls complaint is largely driven by the fact that he now knows  
Company A went into administration  and didnt turn out to be the successful investment he 
anticipated. I appreciate  Mr Ls points that some of the information  couldve been clearer,  
and had it been, he says he wouldve made a different decision. 
But in my view, his decision to invest in essentially a new company, that had just completed 
a merger, and was looking to operate in a particularly competitive  market, carried with it a 
high degree of risk. Im persuaded Mr L thought this was a great opportunity  but as with 
most start-up firms, there was always going  to be a high risk that the investment wouldnt 
work out. I dont agree  that a clearer or more thorough explanation of the technicalities 
surrounding the merger in May 2018  wouldve  made much  of a difference to Mr Ls decision-
making at the time. I say this bearing in mind  that he was given not one, but in fact two 
opportunities to pull out of the investment  before his commitment  became legally binding.
The second  email offering  Mr L an opportunity  to pull out of the investment is significant. I 
say this because  that second email specifically explained that the whilst the merger had 
been carried out, operations hadnt  yet been fully integrated. And further, that email also 
indicated that Company  A envisaged further funding being  required in future, and for that 
reason was lowering  the share  price.  In my view,  this email ought  to have acted as warning 
signal  and given the situation, Mr L was afforded another  opportunity to pull out of the 
investment if he so wished. 
I acknowledge Mr L says he didnt  read this email  because  he thought it was the same email 
as the first (which didnt  make reference  to this issue). But Im not persuaded I can blame 
Crowdcube for that. Ultimately this was a communication about an investment Mr L had 
made. 
And I consider it wouldve  been reasonable, and probably expected, that Mr L would  read all 
communications about this investment  and certainly make sure that something  he thought 
was just a duplicate did not, in fact, contain new information. 
Finally, Ive considered  Mr Ls comments about the discussion board. Having considered  this 
carefully, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to infer from where it is positioned that 
Crowdcube checks or otherwise carries out due diligence on all the claims made  therein  
notwithstanding the fact that, in any event, Crowdcube says in its due diligence charter  that it 
doesnt review restricted  documents,  pitch videos, pitch  updates, forum discussions  or the 
content of investor  events  that arent organised by Crowdcube. In my view, if a claim was 
Ref: DRN00825327made in the discussion  board that wasnt present  in the pitch, or otherwise contradicted a 
pitch, it would be reasonable to expect an investor  to treat that information with caution and 
not rely on it at the expense of everything  else. 
To be clear, I have sympathy  for Mr Ls situation and the losses he has experienced on this 
investment. Its clear,  looking at all the evidence, that a number of things did not materialise  
after the crowdfunding round which were  key to Company As prospects of success.  But 
unfortunately I consider this is a common risk of investing in companies of this nature  and 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold Crowdcube responsible  for that. 
For all these reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0082532