K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society  wont  reverse  the online transfer 
that Mr S made from their joint account  to their daughters Junior  ISA (JISA) in error.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional
decision dated 23 November 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision.
Nationwide has responded setting out that it has no further comments to make following my 
provisional decision.
Mr S has responded saying he strongly  disagrees  with my provisional decision. I have taken 
his comments into account  and will treat them as also representing Miss Hs thoughts here.  
Ill summarise  Mr S response to my provisional decision.
Mr S has said when  he transferred the funds to his daughters JISA  in error he recalls that 
Nationwide was experiencing technical issues with its online services. He has also said he 
doesnt recall an error message notifying  him that he had chosen his daughters  ISA as the 
transfer destination. He said he contacted Nationwide immediately on noticing  his error. And 
he thinks it is unfair that I commented  that Miss H and Mr S hadnt experienced financial 
difficulties due to what happened. Mr S said that he planned  to transfer the funds in question 
to his ISA for a short term and to transfer them back to pay off other debts at a later date, 
which was now not possible.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have considered Mr S additional comments and whether these  change  my provisional 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I addressed Mr S concerns about the warnings I think  Nationwide 
wouldve provided to make it clear to him that he was transferring  the money to his 
daughters JISA. While  Mr S has said he thinks there were technical issues  with 
Nationwides online banking system Nationwide told our service  that it investigated whether 
its online banking was working correctly on the date in question. I havent seen any evidence 
to persuade me that there were any faults or issues with Nationwides online banking on the 
day Mr S made the transfer. So, Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldnt have seen a transfer 
warning message before finalising his transfer request. Here,  I think he received sufficient 
information that he was about to transfer funds to the wrong ISA account.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  I appreciate that Mr S made a mistake when he made 
the transfer. And Ive acknowledged that he acted promptly in contacting Nationwide on 
realising his error in order to request  the return of his money.  But, Ive already commented  in 
Ref: DRN05005222that decision on the rules  that preclude  withdrawals  from a JISA  even where a transfer has 
been made in error. 
I think Nationwide acted  reasonably in doing what it could to try to assist Miss H and Mr S in 
getting their money  back. And it gave clear reasons why it couldnt  return their money. I 
therefore dont  think that Nationwide has done  anything wrong towards  Miss H and Mr S.
Mr S has said this error has caused his family to experience financial difficulties as the 
money was intended  to pay bills. But he told our service when he brought his complaint to us 
that the funds  he transferred were earmarked for a family holiday. Mr S hasnt presented any 
evidence that his family is suffering  financially as a result of this mistake. So, Im not 
persuaded to change  my decision on the basis of what Mr S has said here.
Mr S comments do not change my provisional decision. And so I adopt  the reasoning set 
out in my provisional  decision as my final decision. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold Miss H and Mr S complaint  and do not ask Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Copy  provision decision of 23 November  2018
complaint
Miss H and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society  wont  reverse  the online transfer 
that Mr S made from their joint account  to their daughters Junior  ISA (JISA) in error.
 
background
Miss H and Mr S hold a joint account  with Nationwide. In May 2018 Mr S made a substantial 
online transfer from their joint account to their daughters JISA  in error. He said he intended 
Ref: DRN05005223to transfer the money to his own ISA instead  because the money  had been earmarked  for a 
family holiday. So he asked Nationwide to return the money.
But Nationwide said that, while it sympathised with his situation and accepted Mr S had 
made a genuine  error, it couldnt  return the money  because it wasnt able to release  the 
money without permission from Her Majestys Revenue and Customs  (HMRC).  It said that 
following investigation, it was satisfied that before Mr S authorised  the online transfer he 
would have seen  a warning message telling him where the money  was going and that it 
couldnt be accessed until the child turned 18. It also said that the JISA couldnt  have been 
opened without  Mr S agreeing to the terms and conditions, which made clear that money  
couldnt be withdrawn  until the child attained 18 years of age.
Nationwide said that these rules were  set by HMRC, not by it, and invited Miss H and Mr S 
to contact HMRC to ask their permission for the return of the money.  Miss H and Mr S 
contacted HMRC but they said that Nationwide had to follow  the terms and conditions of this 
account and nothing could be done in the circumstances.  So Nationwide  said it couldnt 
return the money to Miss H and Mr S.
Miss H and Mr S brought their complaint to us. Our adjudicator empathised  with Miss H and 
Mr S and, while they didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong, they said it should  
reverse the transfer because the money was needed to pay bills. Nationwide disagreed and 
asked for the matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill explain why Im not 
minded to uphold  this complaint.
The starting point  here is that Nationwide should  follow its customers requests, unless 
theres good reason not to. Here, Mr S gave  online instructions to Nationwide to transfer a 
large sum of money to his daughters  JISA  and it did that. So, Im satisfied that it correctly 
processed the payment using the information Mr S provided.
I think that because  Mr S was making  such a large transfer it was his responsibility to ensure 
that he had entered the correct account information. I think  this is reasonable, as Nationwide  
didnt know the circumstances behind the payment  here. So it wouldnt have  been  right for it 
to assume that Mr S didnt want to make  this payment to this account. To Nationwide,  it 
would only have looked like Mr S had asked it to make a payment to his daughters JISA 
account. Thats not an unusual request. I realise that Mr S usually made  significantly lower  
regular monthly credits to this account but thats  not a reason  that, on its own, means 
Nationwide shouldve queried this transfer.
Mr S says he didnt receive  a warning to say where the funds were going before he 
completed the transfer, because he believes that Nationwide was experiencing IT problems. 
But after investigating, Nationwide  said there were no faults or issues  with its online banking  
on the day Mr S made the transfer.  It also said that Mr S would have seen a transfer warning 
message before finalising  this transfer  request and that he wouldve had to click continue to 
proceed with transferring  the money to his daughters  JISA.  It further said that this warning 
would have notified Mr S that the money couldnt  be withdrawn from the JISA  until the child 
turned 18. So I think the information Nationwide provided Mr S before making the transfer 
Ref: DRN05005224was clear and sufficient for him to be aware  that he was transferring the money to this 
account.
When a customer transfers money to the wrong  account, then the business that sent it 
should try and do what it can to help them  get the money  back. But this was complicated  
here by the nature  of the JISA Mr S transferred his money into. Withdrawals from JISAs 
arent permitted until a childs 18th birthday and that the only exception to this rule is where a 
terminal illness claim has been made on behalf  of the child and been agreed in accordance  
with the HMRC ISA regulations. 
So here, Nationwide couldnt return his money   as doing so would mean itd have gone 
against HMRC rules.  I think thats  a fair reason  not to have done  what  Mr S wanted here. 
Nationwide told him to contact HMRC  to ask about these rules and whether it would permit  
the release of the funds.  Although it didnt lead to Mr H getting the money back, I think  that 
this was good advice in the circumstances.
I accept that Mr S made  this payment to his daughters JISA in error and Ive taken into 
account that he wanted to transfer the money  to his own ISA. He now says that the money  is 
needed to pay bills. But he intended  to pay this money into his ISA so Im satisfied that it was 
earmarked as savings.  I havent seen any evidence of Miss H and Mr S suffering financial 
difficulties by not having access to this money. 
I understand Miss H and Mr S feel very strongly about the issues  raised in this complaint and 
Ive carefully considered  everything theyve said. But I think  Nationwide acted fairly and 
reasonably in refusing to return the money  transferred.  It hasnt made an error and theres  
nothing more it can do.
 
So for the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that Im not minded to uphold 
this complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im not minded to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
and Nationwide  to provide  any further comments and evidence  by 7 December  2018  after 
which I will make  a final decision.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0500522