K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  his new account  after he deposited  a 
large cheque.
background 
Mr B was an executor  for his fathers estate. He received a cheque for his inheritance  and 
opened an account with Barclays to deposit the money. Mr B explained to Barclays  he would 
be depositing a very large amount. He was told his money would be cleared within 10 days  
but Barclays then blocked the account  and wouldnt release  the money.
Mr B said he had been passed  back  and forth between  branch and telephone operators. 
And no-one  seemed able to help.  He wants access to his funds.
Barclays apologised for the delay while it carried out an investigation.  There  had been a 
problem with the cheque and Barclays had spoken to the remitting  bank  to confirm it was 
genuine. A block had been placed on the account  while this was being looked into. It could 
see Mr B had provided identification details in March 2019. But hed been told in April they 
hadnt been received. 
Barclays said itd now received the necessary documentation from Mr B. And it was happy to 
release the funds to him. The bank  offered  Mr B £500 compensation for any distress  and 
inconvenience caused while the matter  was being resolved. And it suggested  compensatory 
interest from the day Mr B deposited  the cheque.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with Barclays response. So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at what had happened.  And she felt Barclays  
offer of 8% interest was appropriate in the circumstances. This amounted to £2183.24 with a 
further £545.81 being due to HMRC. And she felt the offer of £500 compensation was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree. He felt the £500  offer should  be higher. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating this mustve  been  for Mr B. He opened an account with 
Barclays so he could  deposit the cheque  for his inheritance. And he explained to the bank he 
would be paying  a large sum of money into the account. 
But it seems  there was a problem with the first cheque  Mr B deposited. And Barclays  felt it 
was necessary to carry out further  checks to confirm the Mr Bs identity and the source  of the 
money.
Barclays, like all banks,  will have procedures in place when they receive  large sums of 
money into new accounts. So I cant say Barclays did anything  wrong when  it placed  a 
temporary block on the account  while  it carried out further checks. 
Ref: DRN08725342But Mr B had to go to a lot of effort before Barclays were satisfied it could release the funds. 
And there do seem to have been problems between various departments  which further 
delayed matters. So its only right that Barclays compensate Mr B for the trouble hes been  
through. And for any financial loss he mightve  suffered while  his funds were  locked in the 
account.
Barclays has offered to credit Mr B with 8% simple  interest for the time between  Mr B 
depositing the cheque and the money  being  released to him. And I think  thats  the right 
approach. The sum amounts to £2,183.24 interest  for Mr B with a further £545.81 being the 
taxable amount  payable  to HMRC. And Mr B has accepted that figure.
Barclays has also offered a further  £500 for any trouble and upset caused by the delays. I 
realise Mr B feels that isnt enough. Hes had larger settlements from other  matters.  But I 
have to decide what would be an appropriate level of compensation in this case, based upon  
the evidence Ive seen.
I can see Barclays has now released the funds to Mr B. And the bank has compensated him 
for any financial loss by agreeing to pay 8% interest for the period he was unable to access  
his funds.
While I accept this mustve  been very frustrating for Mr B, and he had to go to a lot of effort  
to convince Barclays  to release the funds,  I think the offer of £500  is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Its in line with the sort of award our service  would  make. So I wont  be 
asking Barclays to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should:
Pay Mr B £2183.24 interest (with  a further  £545.81 due to HMRC)
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for his trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0872534