K820x#14complaint
Mr P on behalf of C, a limited company, has complained about the way Aspray Ltd managed 
a claim for an escape of water under Cs property owners policy.
background
C made a claim via its broker to its insurer following a water  leak. C appointed Aspray  to 
manage the claim.
A contractor  was appointed to carry out repairs. His total bill was £2,607. The contractor 
wasnt VAT registered, so no VAT was due in respect of it. Aspray  paid the bill.
Aspray drew up a schedule of repair works and sent it to Cs insurer with an invoice for 
£6,184.57 being £5,153.81 plus VAT of £1,030.76.  The insurer  didnt dispute the schedule or 
the cost. It agreed  to settle the claim for reinstatement on this basis.  Due to a mistake 
regarding the policy excess it paid Aspray £4,945.48  in settlement of this part of the claim. 
The insurer  said it didnt pay the VAT element of the claim since  it thought  C could recover  
this. Aspray then required C to pay it the amount due in respect  of VAT. It said this was the 
usual practice for commercial insurance  claims.
C wasnt happy about that. It complained  that Asprays  schedule of works  didnt  reflect the 
work actually  carried out and included items  that were unnecessary.  C also complained that 
Aspray hadnt dealt  with its claim for loss of rent. 
Aspray said the contractor  had under-estimated the scope of the works originally. It denied  
that it had inflated the claim.  It also said it had told C at the outset that it didnt deal with loss 
of rent claims.
C brought its complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt think that Asprays bill was 
excessive. She gave Cs insurer proof that C wouldnt  be able to reclaim the VAT. So the 
insurer agreed to pay the VAT to Aspray which meant that C was no longer liable to pay it. 
She also established that the loss of rent claim  had been agreed by Cs broker  with the 
insurer. In conclusion she didnt think Aspray had treated C unfairly.
As C didnt  agree, the matter  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number  of detailed points. Essentially I think  hes unhappy that Aspray  
charged Cs insurer far more that the contractor  who carried out the work charged  Aspray 
and then added VAT on top when the contractor hadnt charged  VAT. There doesnt  appear 
to be any dissatisfaction  with the quality of the repair works.
The agreement C entered into with Aspray authorised  Aspray  to handle  all aspects of the 
claim as its agent and to deal exclusively with its insurer  regarding the claim. In return  C 
wouldnt have to pay Aspray  anything  in respect of fees (leaving aside VAT which  Ill come  to 
later). It seems to me thats what Aspray did in this case. It set out what needed  to be done 
to reinstate the property, agreed  it during a meeting  on site with the insurers loss adjuster 
Ref: DRN01833612and the insurer  paid out on the basis of its estimate.  If Aspray  had inflated the repair costs,  
Id have expected the insurer or its loss adjuster  to have queried them. 
I appreciate that Aspray charged almost double what  the contractor had charged for carrying 
out the work  and that a lot of the work  had been  carried out before Aspray  was even 
appointed. But it must  have  spent  several  hours assessing the claim costs, meeting the loss 
adjuster, presenting the claim costs  and reaching a settlement with the insurer.  Since the 
works were well underway by the time Aspray was appointed ten days  after the claim had 
first been  notified  to the insurer, presumably this aspect of Asprays services was relatively 
important to C at the outset. 
Its costs also included  a fee for supervising the works, ensuring compliance with the relevant 
regulations and providing a guarantee in respect of them. I appreciate that Aspray  wasnt 
actually allowed on site by C to supervise the works but it wouldnt have been  aware  of that 
when it submitted the claim  on Cs behalf.  
I also appreciate that some costs were charged when they werent  actually incurred by the 
contractor  for example the cost of hiring  a skip. Aspray has explained that the skip fee 
could have contributed to the cost of the contractor taking debris  to a commercial tip if he 
chose to get rid of it that way and it didnt mind how a contractor got rid of rubbish provided it 
did so lawfully. At the end of the day Aspray wasnt obliged to ensure that the works were  
carried out in the exact  way envisaged  in its schedule of works.  Thats  because  when  
settling claims  in cash, insurers accept that the money may be used in a different way from 
the breakdown  of costs on which it settled the claim.  Theres no evidence that the property 
wasnt put back into the condition it was in before  the water leak.  So I dont think  it matters if 
the contractor chose to carry out the works differently from the way Aspray had presented 
them to the insurer.
C has alleged that Aspray was only entitled to charge a fee of up to ten per cent of the 
claim cost. So C thinks the profit margin  in this case was unfair. I think the ten per cent limit 
would only have applied  if C had cancelled Asprays authority to settle the claim. Thats  not 
what happened  in this case. 
C has provided evidence  from its accountant that Aspray wasnt entitled to charge VAT on 
the contractors  invoice of £2,607 when it recharged that amount to C. But I dont  think  thats 
what Aspray did. It charged  C for reinstatement  costs (albeit that they were actually paid by 
the insurer). The amount  paid to the contractor was separate and not shown as a 
disbursement on Asprays invoice.
Aspray has said as a VAT registered  company  its obliged to charge VAT on its invoices 
unless the services are in respect of an activity thats VAT-exempt or zero-rated. That 
sounds reasonable to me. Ive checked  the invoice and the VAT is charged on its services.
Cs accountant has also said that the VAT number given for Aspray on the invoice is invalid. 
Ive checked this and can see that the number matches the franchise which  is an appointed 
representative of Aspray. This is set out on the invoice. So Im not persuaded that the VAT 
isnt properly due.
With regard to the loss of rent claim  Aspray  said it made it clear to C that it wouldnt deal with 
this. Our investigator found that the insurer had agreed with Cs broker to pay £750 for this. 
So I cant see that if Aspray did fail C, it has suffered  a loss as a result.
Ref: DRN01833613Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but Im not persuaded that Aspray  has treated C unfairly or 
unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0183361