K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Masthaven  Bank  Limited misled her when it said that the interest  on 
her loan would be rolled-up but Mrs J says that the loan agreement  says something 
different. Mrs J wants a refund of the fees she paid.
background
Mrs J got a Decision  in Principle (DIP) for a bridging loan with Masthaven.  Mrs J proceeded 
on the basis that the interest would be rolled up and paid at redemption as set out in the DIP. 
Mrs J paid a valuation fee of £840  and £600 for legal fees. On 6 June 2018  Masthaven sent 
Mrs J a formal  loan offer. On 28 June Mrs J emailed Masthaven  to say that she was 
unhappy with Clause 11 of the offer letter  as it indicated  that interest would be paid on a 
monthly basis. Mrs J asked that the offer letter  be amended  accordingly.  Masthaven replied 
on the same  day to say that the interest would be rolled up as Mrs J expected  it to be. Mrs J 
didnt go ahead with the loan. Mrs J also believed that Masthaven  was making a profit on its 
valuation fee.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She felt that if the 
loan agreement was read as a whole it meant that the interest would be rolled up as Mrs J 
expected. Our investigator found  no evidence  that Masthaven  had made a profit on the 
valuation. Mrs J disagreed saying in summary that the bank  hadnt  made  their 
documentation or explanations sufficiently clear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J got a DIP dated 31 May 2018. It referred to a facility of £114,237.50. It said that 
Interest is calculated  monthly on the outstanding  loan balance  and added  to the loan 
balance each month, repayable at redemption.  Before proceeding further Masthaven 
required payment  of the valuation fees of £840 and legal fees of £600 both of which Mrs J 
paid.
On 8 June Masthaven issued an offer. That offer said in Clause 11 that the interest would  be 
due one month after date of drawdown  and on the corresponding day of the following 
months. Clause 13 said that this interest  would be added to the loan balance  each month  
and paid at redemption. That seems to me to achieve what  Mrs J wanted which was that the 
interest be rolled up and paid at redemption. I recognise that Mrs J could  have had concerns 
that these clauses achieved what she wanted and she raised  these concerns by email with 
Masthaven on 28 June  2018. Masthaven responded by email  to confirm that the interest 
would be rolled  up. So, my view is that the offer by Masthaven was in line with the DIP and 
what Mrs J should have  expected. I have also noted  that Masthaven has produced an 
invoice from its surveyor indication that the valuation  fee for Mrs Js property was £900 and 
that she wasnt overcharged. So, I dont accept that Masthaven misled Mrs J and I cant 
fairly uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN04721712Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0472171