K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain  about the way in which Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc handled 
and settled a claim  they made under their home insurance policy  following an escape of 
water. They  arent happy they experienced delays  and problems  with the work undertaken.
background
On 25 May 2018 a leak from the flat above  Mrs and Mr Ms property  caused  water damage 
to their kitchen ceiling and bathroom.  On 4 June 2018  they contacted RSA, their home  
insurer, to report that there  had been an escape of water.  
RSA instructed a company, which Ill refer to as R in this decision, to strip out the damage 
and dry out Mrs and Mr Ms property.  Arrangements were made to start the drying out 
process. And, following the removal of the shower  tray and the section of the floor below the 
shower in Mrs and Mr Ms bathroom,  R told RSA it had found wood delay in five joists, which 
required replacing. It also said there was visible wood decay to at least  two ceiling joists.  So, 
it recommended uplift of the full bathroom floor and replacement of the damaged  joists.
Due to age of Mrs and Mr Ms property there were concerns asbestos containing materials 
may be present,  which could be disturbed during building or restoration work. So, prior to the 
repairs going ahead, RSA obtained  a report,  dated 15 June 2018,  which  confirmed that no 
asbestos had been detected at Mrs and Mr Ms property. 
The drying out process was completed  on 17 August  2018.  RSA appointed a surveyor, who 
Ill refer to as C within this decision, to visually inspect Mrs and Mr Ms property, determine 
the cause of the damage and provide guidance  on the scope of the repair  works  needed.  
On 28 August 2018 C attended Mrs and Mr Ms property. It thought  the damage it had seen 
had been directly caused by the escape of water from the flat above Mrs and Mr Ms 
property. So, it recommended RSA settle Mrs and Mr Ms claim and it provided a report,  
which detailed all work required  to restore Mrs and Mr Ms home to its pre-loss  state.  It also 
informed RSA that the repairs  to Mrs and Mr Ms property would render their house 
uninhabitable. 
Mrs and Mr M lived in alternative accommodation for around five months  while their claim 
was being resolved. On 23 October  2018  work  commenced to their property. The work took 
three and a half weeks to complete and, on 17 November 2018, Mrs and Mr M moved back  
into their home. However, they noticed  neither  the heating nor hot water was working. 
Mrs and Mr M werent happy with the delays theyd experienced in the repairs to their 
property. They also had concerns in relation to the quality of the work  that was undertaken. 
So, they complained to RSA. They were also unhappy that RSA had only contributed £100 
towards Mrs and Mr Ms neighbour  looking after their dog while the repairs were  being 
undertaken. 
In its final response to Mrs and Mr Ms complaint RSA explained that dog care payments 
werent covered  under  their policy. So, the £100  contribution it had paid towards  the care of 
their dog was made as a goodwill gesture. 
RSA accepted there had been unacceptable delays in completing  the remedial works  and a 
lack of communication due to the number of call backs promised to Mrs and Mr M, which 
Ref: DRN03128372had failed to materialise. It apologised for the poor level of service  theyd experienced. And it 
offered to compensate them £200 to recognise  the distress and inconvenience  this had 
caused. Mrs and Mr M accepted this offer and RSA made that payment  to them.  
Mrs and Mr M referred their complaint to our service  due to residual concerns they held 
about how RSA had dealt with their claim.  Our investigator empathised with Mrs and Mr Ms 
complaint but didnt  uphold it. They thought  RSA had acted  fairly  and reasonably.  And they 
didnt think it needed to do anything further because it had made a fair offer to compensate  
Mrs and Mr M for what  happened. But Mrs and Mr M didnt agree with our investigators  view 
and asked that an ombudsman decide  their complaint.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mrs and Mr M experienced here.  I can appreciate  how 
stressful and inconvenient this all was.
RSA accepted that there were unacceptable delays and that Mrs and Mr Ms claim could 
have been handled better.  Its already made a goodwill payment of £200  compensation and 
£100 towards dog care costs. So, the issue here is whether RSA has acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering to put things right for Mrs and Mr M. In thinking about this, Ive 
considered things from both sides.
The damage to Mrs and Mr Ms property took place on 28 May 2018. Their claim was 
registered on 4 June 2018.  Based on the contact notes RSA provided our service  I can see it 
appointed R the same day Mrs and Mr M registered their claim. Arrangements were made to 
start the drying out process at around  this time. This satisfies me that RSA dealt with the 
initial stages  of Mrs and Mr Ms claim promptly and as Id expect it to.
R submitted a report and initial estimate of costs to RSA on 7 June 2018.  It became 
necessary to remove a false ceiling and artex ceiling, which was complicated and delayed  
due to concerns  as to whether asbestos  was present. So, before the ceiling removal could 
take place an asbestos report was required.  I dont think this was an unreasonable step for 
RSA to take here.
The drying out process can be lengthy. And I can see Mrs and Mr Ms property took around 
three months to dry, which was longer than anticipated. But I havent identified  any 
significant delays  in the drying out process.  So I cant fairly  find RSA made  any errors here.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that avoidable delays occurred 
after the drying out process was complete. I say this because,  while the drying  out process 
was completed on 17 August 2018, work on Mrs and Mr Ms property  didnt commence until 
23 October 2018  just over two months  later.
I can see there were a number of problems that caused a delay in commencing the work on 
Mrs and Mr Ms property.  These issues included delays in the cost approval process, the 
number of trades involved in the repair, negotiations  regarding the choices in materials,  
items that Mrs and Mr M had chosen being  out of stock and poor communication.  I think  
these delay were avoidable. And I also think delays here could have been minimised  had 
RSA better  coordinated those involved in Mrs and Mrs claim.
Ref: DRN03128373 
Im satisfied that, once  work to Mrs and Mr Ms property commenced, the repairs  were  
completed within the proposed timetable. This enabled Mrs and Mr M to move  back into their 
property on 17 November  2018.
I understand that Mrs and Mr M think they should have been given a more realistic estimate 
of how long it would have taken RSA to complete  the repairs to their property. I dont 
disagree with that. And I dont think their expectations  were properly managed,  which was 
partly due to poor communication  by those involved in their claim.
Having reviewed RSAs  contact notes carefully  I can see that Mrs and Mr M contacted RSA 
regularly to query the progress of their claim. I think their calls were  motivated by concern 
that they werent being kept up to date. And I can appreciate how frustrating that must have 
been. I can also understand how poor communication made the claim process more 
upsetting and distressing for Mrs and Mr M.
I recognise that the way in which Mrs and Mr Ms claim was progressed  by RSA had a 
significant impact to them  especially given the upheaval they were experiencing while 
living in alternative  accommodation. But, we arent here to punish businesses. And, to put 
matters right, Id have  asked RSA to make  an appropriate award of compensation to reflect  
the trouble and upset caused.
I understand this situation was very distressing for Mrs and Mr M. But claims for an escape 
of water can be complex and tend to take several months to resolve. It is inherent with such 
a claim that there will be stress and considerable inconvenience. Our role is to consider 
whether this was avoidable and to assess fair compensation for failing as a whole. 
In this case its clear the service from RSA could have been better and that it had a 
significant impact on Mrs and Mr M. I also appreciate they suffered distress and 
inconvenience while living  elsewhere.  But on balance, Im satisfied that the compensation 
RSAs already paid fairly reflects the trouble and upset they were  caused. Our investigator 
has said its in line with awards our service  has made in similar circumstances, and I agree. 
Its what I would have  suggested had no offer been  made. So, I wont  be requiring RSA to 
increase the amount its already paid. 
Finally, Mrs and Mr M have raised concerns about the quality of the repair  work  undertaken. 
I understand that there problems due to a second leak and issues with pipe work  after the 
work was completed. However,  RSA told our service it had no dealings with how those 
issues arose. 
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr M feel these  problems were caused by those  involved in the 
repair of their property. But I havent seen any evidence that demonstrates that the second 
leak and issues with pipework were caused by those RSA appointed  to repair  
Mrs and Mr Ms property.  I can see there was a snagging list drawn up after the work was 
completed. But, Im satisfied that none  of the jobs identified on that list caused or contributed 
to the leak or pipework  issues Mrs and Mr M experienced. So, I cant  fairly hold RSA 
responsible for what happened here.
 
Ref: DRN03128374I appreciate that Mrs and Mr M feel very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint 
and Ive carefully considered everything theyve  said. While I appreciate the reasons why 
they brought their complaint to our service  Im satisfied that RSA has acted fairly and 
reasonably in relation to the service they received.  So, Im not going  ask it to do anything 
more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0312837