K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold  
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
In 1994 Mrs F arranged a mortgage with Halifax. In February 1999 she applied for a further 
advance in a meeting.  At the same time bought  a regular  premium MPPI policy to protect her 
mortgage repayments against accidents, sickness or unemployment. The mortgage ended  in 
October 2000.
Mrs F says she was told she must  take PPI in order to be given the account.  She thinks  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Fs complaint. As the complaint still isnt resolved, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and have  decided  not to uphold 
Mrs Fs complaint for the following reasons:
In 1999, when Mrs F was arranging  her further advance in a meeting, I can see from the 
sales documentation provided that a separate MPPI application form was used. This 
form had a series of questions on it about the insurance. I am persuaded after seeing 
this form that a discussion was had around MPPI. I can see that the MPPI policy  was 
also presented as optional.
Im also not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax  or its representatives sold 
these policies in 1999. So, I cannot fairly  conclude on this occasion that Mrs F was not 
given a choice  to have the policy during  the sale based on the documentation I have 
seen.
Halifax has said the policy was recommended  to Mrs F during the meeting. So, as this 
puts additional responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed  that this was the case. So 
as it did recommend the policy  to Mrs F, it had to ensure during the sale that the policy 
was suitable for her needs.
After reviewing the information provided  to me, it looks like the policy was suitable  for 
Mrs F based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time of the sale. Mrs F says 
she had some sick pay (between  6 and 12 months)  and also £15,000 savings but she 
hasnt on this occasion been  able to provide any further information about this. I think the 
benefit would have been of use to her in addition to her provisions during a difficult time. 
I think, on balance,  she would have found the cover the policy provided useful for any 
Ref: DRN07270902extended period  of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other  reason such 
as a significant or limiting term that would  make the policy unsuitable for her.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  that   
Mrs F took out. I can see from the separate MPPI application form most likely used that 
she would have  been clearly disclosed at the time of sale.  The policy  was affordable  and 
Mrs F could have  cancelled the policy at anytime.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold                
Mrs Fs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0727090