K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a hire purchase agreement.  The PPI was added to the account at the same  time
Mr C signed the agreement.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr C says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the complaint.  Mr C 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
I currently dont think the policy  was mis-sold and Ill explain  why.
Mr C says he was not made  aware the policy was optional. But based on the evidence  Ive 
seen I think its likely  FICL made  it clear the PPI was optional  and Mr C chose to take it out  
although I can understand if he cant remember this. I say this having seen a copy of the hire 
purchase agreement  Mr C saw and signed. This shows there was a section for PPI and Mr C 
has signed in this section to agree to the cover, and there is nothing  here to suggest Mr C 
had to sign in this section. This signature is also separate and additional  to his signature to 
agree to the PPI  so I think this reflected what he wanted at the time..
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C, this means  it didnt have to check if the policy  was 
right for him, but it did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been, and Mr C feels strongly that he wouldnt  have  take out the policy had he been  given  
sufficient information.  But based on what I know of Mr Cs circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so I 
think it would  have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  
Mr C says he had sufficient other means  at the time and so he didnt need the cover.  But he 
couldnt remember what his sick pay entitlement was, so I cant rely on this information as 
much as Mr C wouldve liked me to have. Mr C has also told us he had some  savings  but 
that these were all invested  at the time, so having  the PPI policy in place meant that his 
investments remained  intact to be sold or re-invested when Mr C wanted. So I still think  the 
PPI wouldve  been useful for him and overall  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN08366552Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0836655