K821x#15complaint
Ms Fs complaint is about advice given to her by Aspira Corporate  Solutions Limited (Aspira) 
to transfer the value  of her deferred  benefits in a former employers defined benefit pension  
scheme to a self invested personal  pension  (SIPP).  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 24 September 2020. Ive attached  it and it forms part of 
this decision. 
Aspira didnt accept my provisional  decision.  It maintained Ms Fs complaint should be 
rejected. Ive summarised the points made by Aspira.  
It was pleased Id acknowledged that Ms F hadnt been rushed into making  a 
decision. But it didnt  agree, in relation to what Id said about Ms Fs uncertainty, that 
it had acted incorrectly. Ms F had changed  her mind but it was an important life 
decision and it isnt uncommon for clients to consider things from different angles. 
Her decision only changed after her personal  circumstances changed.  She didnt 
waiver in what she wanted to achieve,  but her plans  to achieve that had to change  as 
her circumstances changed slightly. The adviser was highly supportive and took time 
to explain Ms Fs options in full. The written report clearly set out the disadvantages 
and risks of transferring. Ms F was very clear  about her plans at the time of the 
advice and her wish to transfer  to allow  her to meet her objectives. Aspira responded 
to the new information  and updated  its recommendation accordingly. 
Id said a critical yield of 8.33% was high for someone with a 1 out of 6 risk profile. 
But the critical yield only shows  the return needed to match the benefit  structure  and 
levels being given  up. The suitability letter made it clear that the future level of 
investment return from a personal pension was unlikely to meet 8.33% if benefits 
were sought via an annuity to produce  a similar guaranteed income. Aspira looked at 
Ms Fs overall  benefit structure  and concluded that the transfer most suitably met her 
objectives, especially  as one involved considerable capital expenditure.  The critical 
yield is one factor in the advice and is by no means the most important. 
Aspira appreciated what Id said about changes to Ms Fs circumstances  and the 
relatively high critical yield based  on Ms Fs risk profile. But it felt that, when Ms F 
changed her mind and updated her objectives,  a transfer was suitable for her. 
Aspira also referred to the points  it had made  in its earlier  letter dated 2 October 
2019.
Ms F forwarded an email  shed sent to Aspiras  adviser on 31 October 2016. In it she 
queried if the CETV offered  could go down if she deferred it for another year.  She said,  if 
she took the CETV,  shed still have to get a job so she could invest the CETV. Shed 
planned to take the pension from the scheme  to supplement  her lower income. She was 
comfortable with that as the income would be paid for life. But, if she was now going to 
invest the CETV, she didnt feel she could draw an income from it immediately so shed  have 
to continue to use her savings. And, as she was a low risk investor, a large portion would be 
in cash and shed  be paying 3.5% in the interim.  She added  that, as she was still unsure 
what to do, it might  be better to do nothing until she had a job and her mothers  estate sorted 
out. That was provided she didnt lose by deferring.  She said she was still not 100% 
comfortable on knowing what  to do. 
Ref: DRN08440922The adviser replied  on 2 November 2016. He said the initial  fee for the transfer would be 
discounted to 1% (against a standard fee of 3%). And the ongoing fee would be the same as 
for Ms Fs SIPP (1.36%  which included all advice,  fund management and provider fees).  He 
queried why Ms F would need  to get a job, saying the same level of income could easily be 
provided and the income could be drawn  immediately  so Ms F could  stop drawing on her 
savings. If she did get a job she could simply stop the income and recommence it later when 
she needed it. 
The adviser said Ms F was currently a very cautious investor so 49% of her money  would be 
invested in cash. She could reduce that by slightly increasing her risk profile to cautious. 
The figure of 3.5% shed  quoted wasnt correct.  If Ms F left her benefits in the scheme and 
requested another CETV at age 60 the value could reduce. The adviser referred to the value 
having increased by £9,000 since July that year primarily due to changes in gilt yields.  He 
said it was perfectly possible those yields could increase and Ms F would  be offered a lower  
CETV at age 60.
Ms F replied the same day saying shed go ahead with the transfer. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so I still think the complaint should be upheld. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive 
considered carefully  what Aspira  has said in response to my provisional decision.  But I dont 
think theres anything  thats  really  new or which dictates a different outcome. I dont have 
much to add to what Ive said already. 
Aspira accepts that the critical yield was high for an investor such  as Ms F who didnt want to 
take any risk. I recognised, in my provisional decision, that the critical yield isnt the only 
consideration. But it is an important factor. Notwithstanding what  Aspira  has said about the 
limitations of the basis of the calculation, a high critical yield would tend to suggest the CETV 
offered is poor value  in return for the benefits  being given up. And the TVAS (Transfer  Value 
Analysis) suggested that Ms F would be considerably worse off if she transferred. The 
personal pension  (based  on growth of 5% pa) would produce much lower  income  - £12,728 
lower, year on year. 
I maintained that the transfer wasnt suitable  on financial grounds. And, as I said in my 
provisional decision, it wasnt justified for any of the other reasons put forward  by Aspira  and 
given the uncertainty of Ms Fs position.  The potential requirement  for capital (to buy a 
holiday home) wasnt definite  and was something Ms F was going to think  about further and, 
presumably, taking  into account how her plans  to find another job went.  
Aspira may have felt that Ms F knew what she wanted to do. But the email  exchange Ms F 
has produced highlights her uncertainty and that she had some  concerns. She was clearly 
worried that the transfer value could be depleted by withdrawals and that the return shed 
achieve, as a low risk investor,  wouldnt cover the fees. The costs may have  been  lower than 
Ms F understood but I still think her concerns were valid. 
The adviser replied,  offering Ms F a discount  on his fees. I think  that would  have encouraged 
her to go ahead  with the transfer. I dont agree with what  he said about  the same  income  
being easily available.  That wasnt the case, longer term. And I dont  think he should  have 
Ref: DRN08440923suggested that Ms F increase her risk profile to cautious and take more  risk than shed said 
she was comfortable  with  shed said she didnt  want to take any risk at all. And, although I 
agree there was a risk that the CETV could reduce, that wasnt  inevitable.  Any later offered  
CETV might have been higher.  
All in all I think the adviser should have recognised that Ms F had some legitimate doubts. 
Her stated  inclination was to do nothing until her situation was more settled. Shed be in a 
better position to make  a decision once she knew if she was going to be able to get another  
job. Thats  my view too. Shed said she didnt want to lose out. I think if the adviser should 
have recognised Ms Fs uncertainty and that her situation could change,  instead  of 
convincing her to go ahead with the transfer anyway and on the basis  that any later CETV 
was likely to be lower.  
Aspira says the suitability report set out Ms Fs options, and the risks of transferring, in full. 
The emails  referred to above predate the suitability report, which was issued on 9 November 
2016. It appears Ms Fs decision may have  been  made before shed seen Aspiras written 
recommendations. That might raise  questions about whether she had a proper opportunity  to 
consider what she should  do. That said, it was open to her, once she got the report,  to think 
about things again and, if she remained unsure, to call a halt to the transfer. Im upholding 
the complaint  not because Ms F wasnt n a position to make  an informed decision but 
because the advice to transfer wasnt suitable for her. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Aspira  Corporate Solutions Limited must redress Ms F as Ive set out 
in my attached provisional decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08440924PROVISIONAL DECISION dated  24 September 2020
complaint
Ms Fs complaint is about advice given to her by Aspira Corporate Solutions Limited (Aspira)  to 
transfer the value of her deferred benefits in a former employers defined benefit pension  scheme  to a 
self invested personal pension (SIPP). 
background
Ms F had advice from Aspira in 2012. In 2016 she sought advice about  the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) 
and following her redundancy  in May 2016. 
Ms F was 58, widowed  with two children  who werent  financially dependent on her. She might return 
to work  but probably only part time. She needed an immediate income to cover basic expenditure. 
Her home was worth about £550,000 with a small outstanding mortgage.  She had about  £66,000 
invested in ISAs and savings of £10,000. She was receiving a widows pension of £5,870.16 and her 
monthly expenditure was about  £2,500. 
She had several  personal pensions  with a combined  value of about £215,000  and deferred  benefits in 
two former  employers final salary pension  schemes. One would provide an immediate  pension of 
£21,064 pa (or tax free cash  of £96,816 and a reduced pension of £14,522 pa). The other would  pay 
an immediate pension of £14,220 pa. Ms Fs attitude  to risk was 1 out of 10. She wanted a 
guaranteed income  that would increase  with inflation. 
Aspira recommended that Ms F commence taking  early  retirement  benefits  from both final salary  
pension schemes and transfer her personal pensions to a SIPP and invest  the funds  in the Aspira 1 
portfolio. Ms F initially accepted the advice. But she then had second thoughts about taking benefits  
from both final salary schemes and decided to halt the process for the higher pension.  
There were  further discussions.  Aspira  issued a second suitability report  on 9 November  2016.  This 
time Aspira recommended  that Ms F transfer out of the employers scheme and take the CETV  (cash 
equivalent transfer  value) of £524,243.93. The report said shed considered the pros and cons  of her 
remaining final salary benefits and had decided that flexibility, increased tax free cash, improved 
death benefits  and not having to bear the cost of providing a spouses pension which  wasnt needed  
were more important  to her than the guaranteed nature of the benefits. She was also considering  
buying a holiday  home and wanted to maximise  the available tax free cash. 
Amongst other things  the suitability report recorded:
Ms F currently was using the pension  from one former employers scheme and her savings 
for income. She required income  of £35,000 pa in retirement.
She was considering buying a holiday home and wanted to maximise her tax free cash. 
Her attitude  to risk was 0 (out of 10).
Shed  telephoned on 30 August 2016 and asked to cancel taking benefits from this 
employers scheme. This was arranged  and a CETV  obtained. 
She wouldnt decide about the holiday home purchase until January 2017 and wanted to 
remain in cash until then.
The critical yield was 8.33% pa (which Aspira termed a FAIL). The future level of return 
which Aspira considered  was a reasonable target to achieve was 5% pa. And the average 
return over a twenty year timeframe based  on an attitude to risk of 1 out of 10 (although as 
noted above Ms Fs attitude to risk was 0) was 4.91%. So, based a statistical  analysis alone, 
it couldnt recommend the transfer.  But other factors  had been taken into account and had 
featured in Ms Fs decision  to transfer. 
Ref: DRN08440925Ownership and control: Ms F wanted personally  to have ownership and control of her 
retirement benefits  to provide  greater flexibility on how, when and what  form of pension 
income shed get at retirement.
Spouses pension benefits: The employers scheme provided spouses benefits.  Ms F was 
widowed and her circumstances were unlikely to change.  But the employers scheme  pension 
still factored  in the cost of a spouses pension.
Potentially increased lump sum death benefits:  Although not a priority for Ms F she did wish to 
potentially increase any lump  sum death benefits pre retirement. And shed like to have 
potential for a larger lump sum for her children.  Pre retirement  the employers scheme offered 
a return  of contributions  (£27,447.33)  and 50% spouses pension.  Post retirement  only a 50% 
spouses pension was available.
Potentially increased tax free cash: This wasnt guaranteed and the final amount would 
depend on the future investment performance of the SIPP.  
Ms F accepted the advice and the transfer went  ahead.  
In December 2018 she complained to Aspira.  She said shed  been advised  last minute  and when  
she was in the process of taking her pension that it was best to transfer as the employers pension 
wasnt index linked. The recommendation wasnt in her best interests as she had a low risk profile. 
She wasnt concerned  about leaving money to her children and just wanted  to make sure she was 
financially secure  for the rest of her life. 
She later added that she had a low risk profile  and liked stability  and certainty. Shed been unable to 
get a job so far and might  not in the future. The lack of income had caused her stress  and anxiety.  
She said shed been happy to proceed with taking her final salary pension  and at the last minute had 
been advised  to transfer. Shed had limited  time to decide and hadnt  known what  to do. Shed  paid a 
lot for advice. Shed  moved the funds again shortly after as shed felt shed made a mistake and gone 
way beyond her comfort zone.
Aspira sent Ms F its final response  on 21 February 2019. Aspira  didnt uphold  the complaint. In 
summary it said:
It wasnt the case that the advice  to transfer was last minute. Aspiras records confirmed that 
Ms F had contacted the adviser on 30 August  2018 to ask him to stop the instruction to 
commence payment  of the employers  scheme benefits due to a change in her circumstances  
and objectives. The subsequent research and advice  werent concluded until November 2016.
There was no evidence on its files that Ms F had been  advised to transfer because the 
pension from the employers scheme wasnt index linked, either  at all or in part. Some 
elements of the pension did increase in payment. If Ms F had taken tax free cash the pension  
would have  been  significantly lower than £21,064.  
By transferring Ms F was giving up guaranteed pension income in favour of pension benefits  
that werent guaranteed. The SIPP gave  her the opportunity to access  income  and tax free 
cash in a flexible manner. The suitability  report confirmed that was more important to her than 
the guaranteed nature of the benefits given up. 
Ms F had been given clear information about the risks and downside of transferring and 
theres nothing to suggest she wasnt in a position to make a fully informed decision.  She was 
a risk averse investor. Her revised  objectives and zero risk rating were taken into account. 
The funds were invested  in cash to allow the purchase of the holiday home and to vary 
income requirements as and when employment opportunities  were known. 
Since the advice was given and the transfer concluded, Ms Fs objectives  had changed again. 
Shed been unable to find employment  and that had led to uncertainty  about her financial 
stability. Aspira wasnt accountable for actions and decisions made  after moving to a new 
adviser.
Aspiras initial advice fee had been reduced from 3% to 1% of the funds transferred and the 
subsequent anticipated withdrawal to purchase a holiday home  and advice on income  
requirements in early 2017 would  be completed with no initial  charge. 
Ref: DRN08440926Ms F asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator upheld the complaint.  In his view issued on 
12 September 2019 he said the initial recommendation (which Ms F wasnt complaining  about) to 
draw early retirement benefits  from both final salary  schemes had been suitable. But the second 
advice to transfer the value of her deferred benefits in one of the schemes  wasnt suitable. Ms F 
should have been advised  to retain her deferred benefits in her former employers scheme. 
Aspira disagreed with some of the investigators  finding. Its main points  were:
The investigator hadnt  explained in sufficient detail  why the transfer  wouldnt benefit Ms F 
and why suitable advice  would have been to retain her deferred  benefits. 
Aspiras fact finding,  know your client requirements and the November  2016 suitability report  
clearly summarise Ms Fs change in circumstances and needs. The report replays her 
objectives, circumstances and change of heart. It wasnt for Aspira to challenge the speed at 
which Ms F had changed her mind or objectives. Shed  provided details and a clear  rationale 
and was a long standing  client. 
The suitability  report confirms that shed  considered the pros and cons of the transfer and that 
the flexibility offered  was more  important to her than the guaranteed  nature of the final salary 
benefits. 
Aspira first became  aware of Ms Fs new objectives in August 2016 and the paperwork  for the 
transfer wasnt submitted until towards the end of November 2016 which  offered Ms F plenty 
of time to consider.  
She wouldnt  have been able to purchase a holiday  home just using  the 25% tax free cash 
from her SIPP  that would have  generated about  £53,000 which  is unlikely to have met the 
cost of the property.  She was already using her savings to supplement her income.  
Aspira agreed that the critical yield of 8.33%  couldnt be achieved by the transfer.  But the 
regulator doesnt expect  advice to be based solely on that. The clients objectives  and needs 
must drive the advice. 
Ms F was a cautious  investor. The adviser  contacted her in February  2017 to review  the 
investment strategy but Ms F had instructed  a new adviser. Aspira couldnt  provide cash flow 
modelling to reflect  future needs.  It wasnt necessarily the case that the fund would be eroded 
 that would  depend on timescales, rates and timings of drawdown and investment strategy. 
Any redress  payable by Aspira should be calculated to 7 March 2017, when Aspira ceased to 
be the servicing agent  for Ms Fs SIPP.  
The investigator considered  what Aspira had said but he maintained his view. In summary: 
He wasnt critical of the process  undertaken by Aspira or its fact finding. But he thought Ms 
Fs change of heart  indicated that she was unsure of her intentions  going  forwards. She 
hadnt made firm plans  and seemed  to be in two minds  about  what she wanted to achieve. 
And she wanted to review  things  in the New Year. There was no urgency and no need to 
recommend that she transfer when she did. 
The tax free cash from her SIPP wouldnt have  been  enough to buy the second property. But 
she had other assets. Her other employers  pension had been put into payment so she 
wasnt relying solely on her savings to meet her income needs.  Shed  had several job 
interviews. If shed have  got a job and secured a regular income  she could have considered 
a short term mortgage. 
The critical  yield isnt the only consideration  but it is important  especially as Ms F had no 
concrete plans to use the drawdown fund immediately. 
Shed said she wanted  flexibility but it would  have  been prudent to have reviewed  her 
circumstances in the New Year.
The regulators starting point was that a transfer wont be suitable. If Ms F did want to 
purchase a second property it was doubtful if Aspira could recommend that, given her 
income requirements. 
Aspira also said:   
Ref: DRN08440927It acknowledged  Ms F hadnt decided  how much and when shed draw  an income but her 
need to access the tax free cash and flexible income  withdrawals were her main objectives, 
which the transfer  met. Her plans, confirmed  to Aspira  when it made  its recommendations,  
changed. Aspira was committed to providing  on going advice and would have given advice  
appropriate for any change in Ms Fs plans.  But she appointed a new adviser within  weeks of 
the transfer completing. 
Delaying the transfer wouldnt have benefitted Ms F. Any later CETV could have been less, 
given the low interest  rate environment. Aspira wasnt responsible for Ms Fs later change of 
mind and plans. 
It wouldnt have been suitable advice  for Ms F to take on debt  a mortgage  to fund the 
property purchase. 
It was an assumption to assert that the fund value  would be eroded.
Any rental income wouldnt be measured  against a pension of £30,000 pa but against 25% of 
that as the intention was to use the tax free cash and not the whole  pension which would be 
very tax inefficient. 
Ms F agreed in principle  with the recommendation to uphold her complaint but she queried the 
redress. She also suggested  Aspiras fees should be refunded to her. 
The investigator wrote  to both Ms F and Aspira on 12 August 2020  setting out revised redress.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so I agree  with the adjudicator  that Ms Fs complaint 
should be upheld. 
I dont agree with what Ms F has said about being advised at the last minute to transfer. Nor do I see 
that she was rushed into making  a decision.  It seems Ms F herself  had second thoughts about  
whether to take early  retirement  benefits from her former  employers scheme and contacted  Aspira.  
Thats why Aspira revisited its advice. 
The up to date CETV  obtained in October 2016 was guaranteed up to 12 January  2017.  Aspiras 
advice was given in November 2016. I dont see that Ms F was under any pressure to make a 
decision quickly. 
But I think it fair to say that shed waivered about what she should do. I note that the earlier  suitability 
report  which recommended that Ms F should take early retirement benefits from both former 
employers schemes  recorded that Ms F had before then been  considering if she should transfer her 
accrued benefits in this employers scheme. I note what Aspira  says about  her being a long standing 
client who presented a clear rationale  for her revised  objectives. But it was up to Aspira to give 
suitable advice rather than simply facilitate what Ms F had said she wanted to do. I think Aspira 
should have recognised  Ms Fs uncertainty and proceeded with caution. 
Advice about transferring  final salary  benefits should start from the assumption that a transfer wont 
be suitable. COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook)  19.1.6G set out in the regulators handbook 
said (in November 2016 when the second  recommendation was made): 
When advising a retail  client  who is, or is eligible  to be, a member of a defined benefits occupational  
pension scheme  or other  scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to transfer,  convert  or opt-out, 
a firm should  start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should 
only then consider a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion  or opt-out  is in the clients  best interests.
As Aspira recognised,  the critical yield (8.33% pa) appeared to confirm that a transfer wouldnt be in 
Ms Fs best interests. The critical yield is the rate of investment return that would  have to be achieved  
after the transfer to ensure the personal pension  had the same value  at retirement  as the benefits  that 
Ref: DRN08440928would have been provided by the former employers scheme. A high critical  yield would  suggest  that 
the transfer value offered is poor value  in return for the benefits given  up.  
At the time pension  providers  were required to issue pension illustrations using assumed future  
growth rates  of 2% (lower), 5% (intermediate)  and 8% (higher). The required  growth rate was in 
excess of the regulators assumed higher growth rates. Aspira had said that it didnt think  it 
reasonable to assume higher than a 5% growth rate which is consistent  with the regulators assumed  
intermediate rate. Ms F had been identified  as a risk averse  investor. The required growth wasnt 
likely to be achieved  unless Ms F took a higher degree of risk than shed  said shed be comfortable  
with  and shed said she didnt want to take any risk at all.
Ms F was provided with a comparison of benefits from the employers  scheme. The TVAS (Transfer 
Value Analysis) which accompanied the suitability  report showed  that at age 65 the employers  
scheme was projected  to pay a full pension of £29,952  pa assuming RPI at 2.5%. Whereas  the 
projected full pension from the personal pension  would be £17,224 pa assuming 5% pa growth. The 
personal pension would provide higher tax free cash  around £27,000. But the pension would be 
some £12,728 lower year on year.  It appeared that Ms F would be substantially worse off if she 
transferred. 
I recognise the critical yield isnt the only criterion. But it is an important consideration especially  
where an investor, such as Ms F, has said she doesnt want to take any risk.  
Ive considered what Aspira has said about  why the advice to transfer was justified on other grounds.  
Aspiras pointed to ownership and control of the pension  benefits; there being no need to fund a 
spouses pension; improved death benefits for Ms Fs children (although that was recognised  as not 
being a priority); and potentially higher tax free cash.  
I dont think the first three factors would justify a decision  to transfer  at the expense of jeopardising Ms 
Fs future income and financial security. The main  purpose of a pension arrangement is to provide an 
income in retirement. Ms Fs need for an income  to meet her outgoings  was paramount. She was risk 
averse and didnt want to be subject to any investment risk. Her pensions  in payment didnt meet all of 
her expenses and although she was hoping to work again that might not (and didnt) happen. She 
was supplementing  her income from her savings but that couldnt continue  indefinitely. The 
employers scheme offered guaranteed benefits payable  for the duration of Ms Fs lifetime. 
Ms Fs suggested she was told there was an issue as the pension wasnt fully inflation linked. But 
certain elements did increase. Theres no suggestion from the suitability report  that the decision to 
transfer was in part or at all driven by the fact that not all of the pension escalated. 
I dont think much had changed between when the first advice  had been given  that Ms F should 
take early retirement benefits  and the second  that she should take the CETV  offered and transfer 
to the SIPP. Ms Fs situation was still uncertain. She wasnt  working and although she hoped  to 
secure new employment there was no guarantee  shed be successful. She needed  an income of 
about £35,000  which the pension  she transferred,  along with her other final salary pension  in 
payment, would have provided. 
The only change appears to be that Ms F was now considering buying  a holiday home and 
maximising her tax free cash  to help fund the purchase. So the potentially higher tax free cash if she 
transferred would have helped.  But from what Ive seen, she hadnt made a firm decision to do that, 
much less found a property that she wanted to buy. She was going to think  about it further in the New 
Year. It appears it was only an idea at the time and something  that could have been revisited and how 
it might be funded, depending on if Ms F decided that was something she really  wanted to do and if 
she was able to find employment.  
I recognise there would have  been a risk that if she delayed the CETV  might go down. But the CETV 
shed been offered wasnt  enhanced and was more  than the amount earlier offered. And it seems the 
Ref: DRN08440929scheme was fully funded. So I dont  think  transferring when she did was driven by any concerns that a 
later offered CETV could  be lower, although  that might have  happened. 
Further I note that the suitability report didnt contain  a direct comparison of the tax free cash shed  
get if she took early  retirement from the employers scheme and if she transferred. Id have  expected 
that to have been included if higher tax free cash was the major driver for the transfer.
Id also have  expected  Aspira to have explored other ways to meet Ms Fs objective. Aspira says it 
wouldnt have been suitable advice to recommend that Ms F borrowed to meet  the costs of the 
property purchase. That might be right. But the point  is no consideration appears to have been given 
to how Ms F might otherwise  be able to achieve her objective. Theres no discussion  about the likely  
cost of the property  and if that could be met by from Ms Fs other assets. 
In summary the critical yield indicated that the transfer wouldnt be in Ms Fs best interests and that 
shed be worse  off as a result. I dont think the advice to transfer was justified by other factors. In my 
view Ms F should have been advised against transferring. I think  she should  have been advised  to 
retain the benefits in her former  employers scheme. The advice to transfer was unsuitable.  
redress
My aim in awarding  redress is to put Ms F in the position shed be in now if shed been given suitable  
advice which, as Ive said, would have been to remain in her former employers scheme. What Ive set 
out below is slightly different from what the investigator set out in his letter  of 12 August 2020.  In 
particular redress should be calculated as at the date of my final decision and not as at the date of the 
investigators original  view.  In line with the guidance  the calculation can take into account  what  Ms F 
has done in the interim, both as to accessing her benefits and investing  her fund. 
Aspira must therefore undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most  recent 
financial assumptions  at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following  receipt  of notification 
of Ms Fs acceptance of the decision.
Aspira may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the employers scheme on Ms Fs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Ms 
Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Ms F as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically,  25% of the loss could  have been  taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been taxed according to Ms Fs likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed  
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The compensation  
amount must  where possible  be paid to Ms F within  90 days of the date Aspira receives notification  of 
her acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must  be added to the compensation  amount at 
the rate of 8% pa simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Aspira  to pay Ms F. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
Ref: DRN084409210the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply.
Aspira must also pay £250 to Ms F as compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered  by 
her as a result of the disruption to her retirement plans. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. Aspira Corporate Solutions Limited must  redress Ms F as Ive set out above. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0844092