K820x#14complaint
Ms V complains  that Mortgage Express has treated her unfairly. 
In particular Ms V says: 
- she received poor service from her Mortgage Express  case  handler;
- Mortgage Express illegally appointed the Law of Property Act (LPA) Receiver and 
she believes this was fraudulent;
-the identification process used by Mortgage Express is inadequate,  and
- her payment proposal wasnt properly considered.
background
Ms Vs complaint relates to two buy-to-let mortgages  she holds with Mortgage  Express.  It 
appears both mortgages  are in arrears and Ms V has been struggling to maintain the 
mortgage payments  for some time. 
The account  information shows that the mortgages  fell into arrears  in early 2018.  In April 
2018, Ms V told Mortgage Express that she was selling both properties and that she was 
unable to maintain  the monthly  mortgage  payments due.
Mortgage Express asked  Ms V to complete an income and expenditure form and provide 
evidence that the properties were being sold. In May 2018, Ms V provided evidence  
confirming that both properties were  being  sold, with expected completion in mid-June  for 
one of the properties.
In June 2018, Ms V provided  an incomplete  income and expenditure form. She said that the 
sale of one of the properties had fallen through and new tenants were going  to move into the 
property and would pay six months rent up front. Ms V said that this advance  rent would be 
used to clear the arrears  on both accounts,  in full, by the beginning of July.
Information provided by Mortgage Express shows that it was in regular contact  with Ms V 
about the arrears.  But, as the income  and expenditure  information Ms V provided was 
incomplete and payments  toward the mortgages were irregular, it was not able to agree a 
formal payment arrangement with Ms V.
Ms V complained to Mortgage Express in autumn 2018. She said she didnt feel it had 
treated her fairly. Ms V said she found it difficult to get hold of her case worker. She also said 
she felt her case worker  hadnt done  enough to help put an agreement in place to address 
the arrears. And she said she felt Mortgage Express had unfairly appointed LPA receivers.
Mortgage Express didnt  uphold Ms Vs complaint. It said its records showed that its case 
worker had been in regular contact with Ms V about the arrears. It also explained  the steps it 
had taken and time it had allowed Ms V to clear the arrears  before it appointed LPA 
receivers.
It said that it did not need to obtain  a Court Order before appointing  LPA receivers.  It noted 
that the Terms and Conditions for Ms Vs mortgages do not require a Court Order to be 
obtained prior to appointing the receivers. 
Ms V wasnt satisfied with Mortgage Expresss response and brought  her complaint  to this 
service. 
Ref: DRN07744642Our adjudicator did not recommend that Ms Vs complaint should be upheld. He made  the 
following points.
service provided by Mortgage Express
He said he felt Mortgage Express had been  in regular contact with Ms V and had returned 
any missed calls promptly. He said he had also listened to calls between  Ms V and Mortgage  
Express. He said he had not found anything to suggest that it had acted unfairly  or that there 
had been a lack of contact with Ms V.
appointment of LPA receivers
He said he was satisfied  that the terms and conditions of Ms Vs mortgages permitted LPA 
receivers to be appointed. He noted that before the LPA receiver  had been appointed, 
Mortgage Express had issued a pre-formal and a formal demand letter. He said this was 
intended to allow Ms V time to address  the arrears on the accounts. He explained Ms V had 
breached the terms and conditions of the mortgages by allowing the mortgages to fall into 
arrears.
In view of this he said he didnt think Mortgage  Express had acted unfairly  by appointing LPA 
receivers. But he explained  that this service cannot look at whether a business  has acted 
illegally or fraudulently. He said that if Ms V still felt this was the case  she might want to seek 
independent legal advice.
customer identification
Our adjudicator explained that this service doesnt  have the remit to tell a business how it 
should operate its internal  business processes. As this is the case  he said he wasnt  able to 
comment on the customer identification and verification process Mortgage Express  uses  for 
security purposes when dealing with calls. 
payment proposals
Our adjudicator said he didnt think Mortgage  Express had treated Ms V unfairly. He said the 
information Mortgage Express had provided showed  it had tried to work with Ms V to 
address the arrears on the accounts.  He said he could see that there were circumstances 
that werent in Ms Vs control with regard to the sale of the properties  and tenant 
arrangements. But he said he was satisfied that Mortgage Express  had tried to work with 
Ms V to put an arrangement in place.
He noted that Ms V had recently raised  new issues in relation to the valuation  of the property 
and the level of arrears.  He said that he would set up as a new complaint covering these 
new issues and they would be looked  at separately.
Ms V was not satisfied with our adjudicators  response. She also said she wanted the new 
issues she had raised about the valuation of the property and level of arrears to be 
investigated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Mortgage Express has treated Ms V unfairly. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN07744643As our adjudicator explained, the most  recent issues Ms V has brought to this service 
relating to the arrears balance and the valuation of one of her properties will be considered 
as a separate complaint.  This decision only deals with the issues Ms V brought to this 
service in October 2018. 
service provided by Mortgage Express
Ms V says her Mortgage Express case handler was not always  available  when she 
telephoned and did not return her calls promptly. I have carefully reviewed  the contact notes 
provided by Mortgage  Express. Having done so, I think Mortgage Express  did respond within 
acceptable timeframes to Ms V and I can see that it was in regular contact with her.
As this is the case I dont  uphold this aspect of Ms Vs complaint.
appointment of LPA receivers
As Mortgage Express has explained,  the terms and conditions for Ms Vs mortgages  set out 
that it could appoint LPA receivers  if Ms V was in breach of the mortgage conditions.  As 
Ms V had not maintained  the contractual monthly payments and did not meet a demand for 
payment she was in breach of her mortgage  conditions.
From the information available  I am satisfied that Mortgage Express  did issue a pre-formal  
and a formal demand  letter. When Ms V failed to repay the debt following  these  letters 
Mortgage Express appointed LPA receivers, in line with the terms and conditions  of Ms Vs 
mortgages. 
As this is the case I dont  think Mortgage  Express acted incorrectly when it appointed LPA 
receivers. 
payment proposals
As our adjudicator explained, the information Mortgage Express has provided shows  that 
Ms V did not provide  all the income and expenditure information it had requested. As this 
was the case   and the payments Ms V made  towards the mortgages were irregular - I dont 
think Mortgage Express was in a position  to agree a payment arrangement  with Ms V. 
Lenders are entitled to request sufficient information  in order to be satisfied that any 
arrangement made is affordable and likely to be maintained.  I therefore  dont think Mortgage 
Express acted unreasonably  when it requested income and expenditure information from 
Ms V. As the information requested was not provided I dont think  Mortgage  Express  acted 
unreasonably when it didnt agree a payment plan with Ms V.
I can see that Ms V has found this matter  very worrying, but having carefully considered  all 
that has been said and provided, I dont think Mortgage Express has treated Ms V unfairly.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Suzannah Stuart
Ref: DRN07744644ombudsman
Ref: DRN0774464