K820x#14Complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt use one of his 
payments for the correct  part of his balance, which meant he was charged more  interest  
than he should  have been. 
Background
On 17 March 2019, Mr P made a payment of £3,610 to his Halifax credit card.
At this time, his balance was made up of £3,513.50 from his previous statement and £1,200 
in balance transfers which were made on 12 March 2019. The £3,513.50 wasnt  incurring 
any interest, but the £1,200 was being charged interest at a rate of 4.9%.
Mr P read on his March  2019 statement that payments he made to the card would  be used 
for the part of the balance attracting the most interest first. But Halifax allocated his payment 
towards the previous balance of £3,513.50, rather than the £1,200  balance  transfers,  even 
though the balance transfers were attracting more interest.
When Mr P complained to Halifax, it said it hadnt  done anything wrong. It said the £1,200 
hadnt been billed on a statement yet and so payments wouldnt be allocated to it if there 
was still an outstanding balance on the previous  statement.
Mr P wasnt  happy with this and so brought the complaint to us. He said he was being  
charged daily interest on the balance transfer amount and so it wasnt fair for Halifax to use 
his payment to the balance which wasnt accruing interest.
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators.  She said that Mr Ps payment was 
dealt with correctly  by Halifax, in line with its terms and conditions and didnt recommend any 
further action.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator, maintaining that the statement says the most 
expensive balance should always be paid off first, and it wasnt  in this case. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman and so its been  passed to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
Mr Ps complaint and Id like to explain why.
Mr Ps statements  have  a section explaining how theyll allocate payments they receive. It 
says the following:
We will reduce the amount you owe in the following order:
any overdue amounts  from previous statements; then
the remaining  balance  on your statement; then
any recent transactions  not yet shown  on your statement.
We use your payments to pay off balances charged at the highest interest rate first and so 
on down to balances  with the lowest interest  rates. This means the more expensive 
balances are always paid off first.
Ref: DRN09570942Mr P made his payment on 17 March 2019,  so the statement that would have applied  was 
the one sent out on 3 March 2019.
Ive looked at this statement and I cant see any evidence there were any overdue amounts. 
Ive not seen any evidence elsewhere to suggest this either. So in the order mentioned 
above, the first point  can be skipped.
The statement  shows  that, as of the date it was generated,  there  was a remaining balance of 
£3,513.50. So keeping in mind the above order, it would be correct for any payments made 
to the card to go towards clearing this balance, before being used for anything else.
Mr P made a payment of £3,610 on 17 March 2019  and so, in line with the above order, 
£3,513.50 of this went  towards clearing the balance on the March  2019 statement. In terms 
of how the payment was allocated, no error was made.
By the time Mr P made  his payment, the balance  transfers had also been  made.  But they 
hadnt appeared on a statement yet (since the next one wouldnt be generated until April 
2019), so the £96.50  remaining from Mr Ps payment went towards the balance transfers. 
Again, I cant  see that an error was made here.
I know Mr P is frustrated  because the statement says that the more expensive  balances are 
always paid off first. But this is linked  to the earlier part which explains the order of 
payments. And Im satisfied that Halifax followed  that order correctly.
As a result, I dont think Halifax has done anything  wrong in how its managed  Mr Ps 
payments to his credit  card.  So I wont  be asking  it to do any more with regards to Mr Ps 
complaint.
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0957094