K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy about the way it dealt  
with a claim under his motor home insurance  policy.
background 
I considered the complaint in full and issued my provisional decision a few weeks ago. In 
summary I said;
Mr M was involved in a non-fault accident  in August  2018 and made a claim under his motor  
home insurance policy. When AXA first looked  at the motor home it considered  writing  the 
van off given the level of damage  involved before it went onto change  its mind and decided 
to repair  the van.
After AXA changed  its mind the claim was drawn out for a period of about two years. And 
Mr M complained to this service about  the delay, poor service generally and the fact that he 
was unable to use his motorhome throughout this period. AXA acknowledged its service  was 
poor and that it delayed  matters and offered £200  compensation.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and partially upheld  his complaint. He thought  a 
lot of the delays  in repairing the motorhome were down to the fact that parts were difficult  to 
get and had to be made  in order to complete the repair.  But he acknowledged AXA had 
taken too long and that its service wasnt to the expected standard,  so he lifted  the 
compensation level up to £500  and asked AXA to expedite the repair.
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld,  and that Mr M should  receive more  compensation than AXA and the 
investigator suggested. Ill explain why.
I dont propose to go over the finer detail of the complaint  which is well known to both sides.  
And it is of note that AXA has now written off Mr Ms motorhome while the matter has been 
waiting for a final decision. Im pleased to hear it has taken this action and I wonder why it 
didnt take this decision far earlier  in the journey of Mr Ms claim and complaint. This 
wouldve ensured that Mr M wasnt put to the significant stress, inconvenience  and clear  loss 
of use and enjoyment of his camper van over a two-year period. 
Although AXA was of the view it could  repair Mr Ms van initially,  it quickly became apparent 
that it would  be an extremely difficult and challenging  repair. I wouldve expected it to take 
steps at that stage to either  provide Mr M with a similar motorhome that he could use 
throughout or to have chosen  to write off his van in order that he could  move  on. I dont  think 
it was fair to keep Mr M waiting for two years to have his motorhome replaced. I think  a delay 
of a few months  was delay enough never mind a few years.  It became clear  early on that it 
would be difficult to source parts for the repair and I think  AXA shouldve carried on with its 
total loss assessment, that it discussed and agreed  with Mr M at a relatively early stage. I 
say this as it was clear  it was struggling  to get a repairer to complete the necessary repairs 
at that point in time.
Ref: DRN07925072It was clear this was causing  Mr M a lot of stress  and inconvenience  to the extent that he 
had to get his daughter to take over dealing with AXA about the claim and the complaint. 
Furthermore, Mr M couldnt use his motorhome as he wouldve expected to, for two years,  
and he wouldve suffered a loss of enjoyment and had to pay additional costs  for hotel 
accommodation when  he would ordinarily have  used his motorhome. And it mustve been 
very stressful for Mr M to have seen his motorhome in a far worse state than when the 
accident first happened, as it had been left standing and unrepaired for so long at AXAs 
chosen repairer.
So I think that the level of compensation should  be lifted. I think the offer of £500 for the 
delays identified by the investigator  was fair. But those  delays didnt  stop when the 
investigator suggested this level of compensation  and asked AXA to expedite the repair. And 
so I think this should be lifted to £750 as the delays  continued and the repair  wasnt 
expedited. But I also think Mr M should be paid a further £1,500  for loss of enjoyment and 
use of the motorhome for a two-year  period. I understand Mr M had a number of trips 
booked and had bought  the motorhome so he could holiday abroad  for significant periods of 
time and this wasnt possible due to AXAs delays.  So I think  he should  be compensated for 
this.
Finally, Im not aware  if AXA paid Mr M any interest  on the amount it eventually paid him for 
the period he was without his motorhome. I wouldve expected it to have done and if it hasnt 
Ill ask it to pay 8% simple interest  for the time Mr M has been without his total loss payment, 
from the date of claim until the date of settlement. 
replies
AXA hasnt responded to my provisional decision. While Mr M has said that after an 
extremely stressful time he is pleased  his complaint has been upheld.  He was grateful that 
Id raised the point  around paying interest for the time he was without payment, especially as 
he felt AXAs  valuation  offer for his van was low. And he went  onto raise a few further points 
which Ive asked the investigator to discuss with Mr M as they sit outside this complaint. 
Mr M did highlight that hed incurred other costs - hed bought  a tent, paid for hotel 
accommodation and paid to hire a camper van during the period  he was without his 
motorhome  and he asked that this be considered.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not changing my 
position and Im upholding this complaint. 
As Mr M has accepted  my provisional decision and AXA hasnt responded I dont propose to 
rehearse the arguments again here. Ive given a detailed account  of the background and 
circumstances surrounding  the complaint above. And I remain  of the view that the position 
outlined is fair.
However, I will address some of Mr Ms further  points and as Ive mentioned Ive asked our 
investigator to discuss some of his issues separately as they dont form part of this 
complaint. This is because a number of the points he has raised are new issues and AXA 
will need  to look at these  afresh and I dont want to delay things further. But I will highlight  
Ref: DRN07925073that the compensation figure I suggested previously was, in part, to cover  costs and 
expenses Mr M had incurred as he wasnt able to use his van. I did get the investigator to 
ask him and his representative about this before  I issued my provisional view and so Im not 
proposing to change this now.  I feel a total compensation figure of £2,250 is fair and that 
AXA should  look to pay 8% simple interest  (if it hasnt already) on the final settlement figure.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance  
UK Plc to pay Mr M £2,250 (total)  in compensation. And it should pay 8% simple interest on 
the final settlement  payment from the date of claim until the date of payment if it hasnt 
already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0792507