K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in September  1995 when he applied  for a credit  
card on a postal application form.
background
Mr S complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the claim should be upheld 
because she thought his employment record would not fall in the definition of continuous  
employment due to a large  time gap between jobs. So it may have been more  difficult for 
him to make  an unemployment claim.  
Barclays disagreed  with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be looked at 
again. Barclays added it had a telephone conversation with Mr S where he confirmed he 
only had a few days gap between jobs. So Barclays concludes Mr S would have satisfied  
the definition of being in continuous employment and he would not have had any extra  
difficulty in making an unemployment claim.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  where I explained why I thought  Mr Ss 
complaint should  not be upheld. I said this was because Mr S did not produce any evidence  
when asked for it to support his submission  that he had been out of work between  jobs for a 
period of five weeks; and I had listened  to the recording  of a call between  Mr S and Barclays  
where Mr S confirmed he had only been  out of work  for a couple  of days  in between jobs.
We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited them  to comment  or 
produce any new evidence. Neither  party had anything further to add. As I have not received 
any new evidence or comments, I see no reason to change the main conclusions  I reached 
in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr Ss case.
 
I am not going  to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr S so Ill explain why.
Barclays says Mr S applied for the credit card and PPI on a postal application  form. Mr S 
said he was not aware  PPI was added to his credit card account.    I can see from the copy of 
the original postal application  form that Mr S ticked a Yes box to say he wanted the 
Payment Protection Plan. If he didnt want to take out PPI then he could have ticked the 
No box. So I think its likely Mr S knew he had a choice about taking out PPI and ticked  the 
box because he wanted it. I can see that after ticking  the PPI box he then signed  and dated 
the application form separately for the credit card. So I can assume  he saw and read the 
form at the time he signed it. So as he chose to have  PPI, I currently think  he probably  was 
aware that it was going to be added to his credit card account. 
Both Barclays and Mr S agree the sale was non-advised.  For non-advised sales, Barclays 
didnt recommend the policy to Mr S - it just gave him information about PPI. However,  the 
Ref: DRN01048712information needed to be clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI. 
Barclays told us it didnt  have the original policy booklet or leaflets which  may have 
accompanied the form  but that isnt surprising because the sale is quite old. Its likely Mr S 
would have received some  documents with the application form that would have given him 
the key features of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. But its possible Barclays 
didnt do things properly  when making sure the information provided on the policy  was good 
enough. That being said even if Barclays did not give all the information Mr S needed to 
make an informed choice,  I think he would still have taken the policy because at the time of 
the sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
I dont know how Barclays explained  the PPI cost and benefits but theres nothing to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for him in 1995. So I dont think  that more  detailed 
information would have put him off from buying PPI.
Mr S said he was on statutory sick pay from his employer. So I currently think the PPI 
couldve lasted  for longer than and in addition to his employee benefits. 
He said he had three months salary in savings  but I think  he still may have seen  a 
benefit in having  the PPI to protect  his repayments  leaving his savings intact for other 
more pressing uses. 
I dont think hed have been caught by any of the main things not covered by the policy 
(the exclusions) which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim. So I dont 
think that more detailed information about the exclusions  wouldve put him off from 
buying PPI. 
I say this because  Mr S said on his credit  card application form he had only worked  for his 
employer for around four and a half months.  Having  looked at the type of policy  that Barclays 
would have sold at around this time, it could have  been difficult for him to make a successful 
unemployment claim if he could not show he had been in continuous employment  for 12 
months without more than a two week gap between jobs. The policy term states:
We will not pay unemployment claims unless you were in continuous work for 12 months 
with one or more  employers immediately before your employment ended   if you were not 
working for two weeks or less, we will not count this as a break in your employment.
Mr S said he had been unemployed between jobs for a period  of five weeks. So our 
adjudicator upheld the complaint because Mr S had not been in continuous employment. We 
asked Mr S to provide  further evidence to about his employment gaps  but we did not receive 
any. 
Barclays said it spoke to Mr S about  this complaint  and he confirmed he had only been out 
of work for a couple of days in between jobs. I saw this evidence  in Barclays internal records 
and I also listened  to the call recording which both confirmed Mr Ss evidence that he had 
only been out of work  for a couple of days  between  jobs.  So I think  he probably was in 
continuous employment so I am not going  to uphold Mr Ss complaint for this reason.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think it wouldve made a difference if Mr S had got 
more information  about PPI. I think  the information was probably clear  enough  for him to 
make an informed decision. I also think he chose to have PPI because he wanted it and I 
think hed still have  taken  out the PPI policy as it was probably  of benefit to him. So I do not 
intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN01048713my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0104871