K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  dealt with her home 
insurance claim for water damage to her home.
background
In August  2017  Mrs W reported a claim to UKI following a leak which caused damage to her 
bathroom and kitchen. UKI accepted  the claim and sent out contractors who did a strip out of 
the property and installed dryers. Mrs W was unhappy with the slow progress  of the claim 
especially as she had to live in a property that was partly stripped out. She was disappointed  
to learn that the works couldnt start until 11 December. Then the works stopped  as further  
issues were found with the floor joists in the bathroom. 
Mrs W decided  to bring in her own contractors in January 2018  to complete the work. They  
stripped out the work in the bathroom already done  by UKIs contractors. Mrs W sought to 
claim the whole  cost of this work.  UKI said initially it would only pay the cost of completing 
the work,  rather than the entire  cost of redoing  it. But it did then agree to pay the full cost.
UKI paid Mrs W a total of £300 for various issues concerning the way the work was carried  
out. Mrs W remained unhappy particularly  as she said the tiles in the kitchen didnt match 
the undamaged  tiles on the other wall. But UKI refused to pay for or pay towards 
replacement of the kitchen tiles. It inspected the tiles and said they did match.
On referral to this service  our investigator  couldnt  determine whether the tiles matched or 
not. But as the policy didnt allow for the cost of replacing undamaged parts of a set, he 
didnt think UKI should make any further  payment.
I asked whether there were any photos of the tiles, apart from the ones UKI took.  Mrs W said 
the photos she had taken  before didnt  show  the lack of match.  She has had the tiles 
replaced, and confirmed she still has issues with the way UKI had dealt with her claim.
I issued a provisional decision, and those findings are set out below. Essentially I didnt 
uphold the complaints. In respect  of the tiles I said that I was unable  to say whether  the 
replacement tiles matched the old ones or not.
Neither Mrs W nor UKI have made any comments on my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out here my provisional findings:
Mrs W raised the following issues with UKI:
Delays in starting  the work and having  to chase the contractors for a stating date
Her property was left in a mess  as her bathroom  and kitchen  were  dismantled
She made UKI aware her ceiling may collapse  and nothing was done  about this, the 
ceiling then collapsed
The contractors damaged her bathroom  shelves
The de-humidifiers installed heated up the property  and this damaged  her tinned food
Ref: DRN09337822She wasnt paid her disturbance allowance weekly as shed been  led to believe
Her property was left with exposed wires that she believes may be dangerous
UKI initially  declined  to cover the full replacement bathroom  suite
She was advised  that UKI would be replacing all of her kitchen tiles as the new tiles 
wouldnt match those on the damaged  wall. UKI now wont  pay for the renewal of the 
undamaged tiles.
She thought  she shouldnt  have had to pay the excess as the damage was the 
neighbours fault.
delays
The work didnt  start until 11 December,  the claim being reported in early  August. This is a 
long time,  And it does  appear that the contractors  didnt keep Mrs W informed. But the 
property had to be dried  out after being stripped out and this was the earliest starting date 
the contractors could give. More problems arose when the bathroom floor was taken  up, and 
these may not have  been related to the claim.  I think this was more an issue  of 
communication which I agree must have been  frustrating for Mrs W. UKI has paid 
compensation partly to address this issue, and Ill deal with that below.
property left in a mess
Unfortunately the bathroom and kitchen had to be stripped out, meaning it wasnt  ideal living  
arrangements. I note that Mrs W opted  to stay in the property  and be paid a disturbance 
allowance. I think that was reasonable.
ceiling collapsing
Mrs W told UKI the bathroom ceiling was about  to collapse. UKIs contractors did nothing 
about this apart from suggesting that she push  a screwdriver into the ceiling which she didnt 
feel comfortable doing. The ceiling did then collapse causing further damage. I think  UKI 
should have ensured it took some action before the ceiling collapsed, and I can understand 
that this was upsetting to Mrs W. Again  part of the compensation  payment covered  this 
issue. I do note that UKI paid for the entire  bathroom  to be renewed.
damage to bathroom  shelves
The contractors caused the damage. I can understand that this would have caused  upset. 
But as Ive said UKI has paid for the renewal  of the bathroom.
dehumidifiers
UKI has explained that dehumidifiers  dont generate that much heat as would spoil food. But 
it has said if Mrs W has any evidence  that food was spoiled  it will consider it. I think  thats 
reasonable.
disturbance allowance
This was agreed to be paid in instalments rather than weekly.  Again I think thats 
reasonable.
property left with exposed wires
Ref: DRN09337823UKI has assured  Mrs W that the wires were safe.  I can understand Mrs Ws anxiety but I 
think its part of the fact that the property had to be stripped out in order  to do the drying.
replacement of the bathroom suite
When Mrs W appointed her own contractors  they stripped  out all the work in the bathroom  
UKIs contractors had carried out. UKI said this didnt need to be done  and only proposed to 
pay for the cost it estimated for finishing the work. But it later agreed to pay all of Mrs Ws 
cost of replacing the bathroom. Since there  is now no way of me knowing whether it was 
necessary to strip out the work,  Im inclined to think that UKI took the pragmatic step of 
paying Mrs W what she asked for rather than engaging in arguments over its liability. Again I 
think that was a reasonable step to take.
tiles not matching
Mrs W says she was told that UKI would pay for the undamaged tiles on the wall in her 
kitchen, as they didnt match the new ones. UKI has said it didnt agree to do this but it would 
consider whether to make a payment  towards the undamaged tiles when the new ones were  
installed. The new ones  were intended  to be a match. It sent out its adviser  who inspected 
the work  and said the new wall tiles are blue & white and clearly match the existing tiles on 
the side walls. The match is perfect.
I cant tell from the photos supplied by UKI whether the tiles match or not. And whilst I 
understand that Mrs W disagrees, she has now had the tiles replaced and says the photos 
she took dont  show up the mismatch. Under the terms  of the policy  UKI isnt required to pay 
for undamaged parts of a set. But where its unable to match undamaged tiles it would be 
fair for it to make a contribution towards  replacing those tiles. But here Im unable  to say one 
way or the other whether the new tiles matched  the old ones. So Im unable  to uphold this 
part of the complaint.
excess
Mrs W thinks it unfair that she should have to pay the excess  on her policy  as it wasnt her 
fault that the damage occurred. Im afraid  that where  a claim is made,  the excess is payable 
no matter whose fault it was. In some circumstances the excess  may be recoverable  from a 
third party as an uninsured loss. But it is matter  for the insurer whether it seeks to recover  its 
losses and the excess. I wont  require UKI to take any further steps in this respect.
overall
I think there could have been better  communication with Mrs W concerning the delay in 
starting the work  on her property. And I think the fact that UKI ignored Mrs W when she told 
it the ceiling  was on the point of collapse caused her particular upset. As regards the 
bathroom, I think the fact that UKI has paid the full cost of it without entering into further  
arguments about it was a fair resolution.  UKI has also paid £300 compensation for the 
issues it was responsible for and I think that's fair and reasonable.
As neither party has made any further  comments, I confirm that my provisional findings are 
now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN09337824my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
I dont uphold the complaint.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0933782