K821x#15complaint
Mr Q says Quidie Limited (Quidie) lent to him irresponsibly. He says he needed to borrow  
again to make the loan repayments as he was in financial  difficulty.  He thinks  Quidie 
shouldnt have been allowed to lend when this was the case.  
background
This complaint is about three loans Quidie provided  to Mr Q between  October  2017  and 
February 2019. Some of the information Quidie  has provided about  the lending  is below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borroweddate ended
1 09/10/2017 £250.00 30/11/2017
2 30/11/2017 £400.00 28/02/2018
3 28/02/2019 £500.00 outstanding
Quidie has offered to pay compensation  in respect  of loan 3. Mr Q didnt accept  this offer 
and its unclear if its still available. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld he complaint. He thought that Quidie shouldve  seen  from 
the information it gathered before it approved  loans  2 and 3 that Mr Qs financial situation 
had deteriorated.  And so it shouldnt have approved these  loans.  
Quidie didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quidie needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr Q could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quidie should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN06801322the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mr Qs 
complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr Q didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this I dont think  
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about 
this lending. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr Q had with Quidie. So it is 
something I will take into account when considering the other  loans he was given.
As our adjudicator outlined, the credit  checks Quidie did before approving  loans 2 and 3 
show a significant  increase in the amount of debt,  and the number of credit accounts, Mr Q 
had opened. And the information  Mr Q had supplied himself to Quidie shows  that almost two 
thirds of his declared  expenditure  was going to other creditors. He was already spending 
over £3,000 in this way. 
So I think Quidie ought to have realised at that time that Mr Q may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Quidie shouldve  also become  concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Mr Qs true financial  situation.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to fully review Mr Qs financial situation.  And I think  
that it needed to verify the information it found  out where possible. This is to make sure Mr Q 
was in position to make the repayments  sustainably.
Mr Q has provided  some  information about his financial  circumstances which  includes his 
bank statements. I accept  that this isnt exactly what Quidie may have seen at the time. But I 
think it wouldve found out similar information  if it had fully reviewed his finances, so I think  
its reasonable to rely on it.
The bank statements shows that Mr Q was borrowing and repaying significant amounts to 
other short term lenders.  And he had other long term debt problems. 
I think that Quidie  wouldve found  out this information if it had looked a bit further  into Mr Qs 
circumstances. And I think Quidie wouldve seen Mr Q wouldnt have  been  able repay  the 
loans in a sustainable way. So I think that Quidie shouldnt have given loans 2 and 3 to Mr Q 
and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Qs complaint about loans 2 
and 3. 
putting things right  what Quidie needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr Q paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 and 3 from Mr Qs credit file;
Ref: DRN06801323If Mr Q still owes Quidie any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan Quidie 
should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balance. Quidie should  
then re-work the account as if all payments made by Mr Q went  to towards the principal. But 
importantly, Quidie needs to make  sure that Mr Q doesnt repay  more  than the principal 
amount borrowed.  
If after doing this Mr Q hasnt repaid  the principal he borrowed Quidie can deduct  this from 
the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr Q has already paid enough to repay the principal 
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if Quidie  no longer  owns  this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr Q.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidie  to take off tax from this interest. Quidie  must  give 
Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Qs complaint.
Quidie Limited should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0680132