K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has raised a complaint about  British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)  who she says is 
responsible for the extent of damage to her ceiling because its engineers failed  to identify 
the source of leaks.
References to BG include its contractors  and agents.
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  in this case upon which Ive received comments  
from Mrs S and BG. Ill address those comments below.
background
Mrs S has a home  emergency  policy with BG. The factual background to Mrs S's complaint  
is a little unclear  as there are some discrepancies between  her account and that of BG. I've 
seen BG's internal  records, and from these, and from what  Mrs S says, my understanding  is 
set out below. Following  my provisional decision, BG didnt seek to correct  my understanding 
of the factual background.
On 29 August 2018 Mrs S noticed  that floor grout in her bathroom was wet. A few days  later,  
on 1 September,  she noticed a water leak from the lighting in her kitchen underneath. She 
called BG and an engineer attended the same day but wasn't able to gain access  to the 
property as Mrs S wasn't there. He left a card to say he'd called. Mrs S says that at this point 
there was no sign of any damage to her kitchen ceiling.
A BG engineer visited on 3 September and removed two of the tiles which surrounded the 
bath to investigate  the source of the leak. He believed  that there was a small leak from a 
pipe under the bath and that the bath would  have to be removed to gain access.  As two or 
three people  were needed to remove it, another appointment had to be made.
Mrs S says that on 6 September two BG engineers arrived. Mrs S says they ignored the wet 
grout, and didn't consider  that there was any leak. Mrs S says that at this point, her kitchen 
ceiling still didn't show any signs of damage. BG's  records don't record  any visit on this date, 
and it's not mentioned in its correspondence.
Mrs S says that on 7 September, cracks  started to appear in her kitchen ceiling. She phoned 
BG and another appointment was made. She says that at this stage the damage to the 
ceiling could  be easily rectified. But over the next few days the leak and the cracks became 
bigger.
On 10 September  two engineers arrived. Mrs S says that after checking  the bathroom  they 
ignored the wet bathroom grout  and blamed  the mastic which they thought could be the 
reason for the leak that was causing the damage to the ceiling below. One job card says that 
the engineers  repaired  the waste and advised Mrs S to re-seal.  The Customer  Checklist  that 
Mrs S signed on the day makes no mention  of any repair, and blames the leak on the mastic 
around the shower and the bath.  Mrs S says that one of the engineers reassured her that as 
her ceiling was in good condition, it would be made  good.
On 19 September  Mrs S called BG again  as there was still a leak that was getting worse. 
The ceiling had begun to bow, and Mrs S had to take steps to support it and to protect  her 
kitchen. BG says that Mrs S was offered an appointment that evening but she was told that 
because of the time, it would only be able to isolate the water  supply. Mrs S declined this 
visit as she was now turning the water supply off herself when she didn't need  it.
Ref: DRN01740742Another BG engineer arrived on 20 September. He cut a hole in the kitchen ceiling and was 
able to see that there was a leak from a loose  elbow feeding the hot tap above. He repaired 
this and tested  it. Mrs S says she was assured  that someone would come to repair  the 
damage to her kitchen  ceiling.
But as there  was still wet grout in the bathroom  and a damp  smell coming from the ceiling, 
Mrs S says she called  in a plumber.  He found that the toilet pipe and collar were wet. He 
rectified the leak in this area, and Mrs S says that dealt with the wet grout,  and that after this 
repair there was no further leaking. Elsewhere Mrs S says that this leak was found  by BG, 
but BG's records  make  no reference  to having  undertaken any such  repair.
So it appears that there were actually two leaks, one from the elbow under the bath feeding 
the hot tap, and the other around the toilet pipe.
On 2 October Mrs S called BG again  as she was still waiting for someone to call her about 
the repair/making good of her kitchen ceiling.  On 4 October a plasterer  came  to repair the 
damage but he was unable  to carry out the repair as the ceiling had bowed and hardened. In 
his report he wrote "ceiling badly damager  from delaying".
Mrs S has provided photos of the damage to her kitchen ceiling, taken  over a number of 
weeks. These show the worsening  condition of her kitchen ceiling during the time it took BG 
to locate and fix the leaks.  Mrs S has said there  were times she had to stop using the 
bathroom, and resorted to turning off her water supply except when she needed  to draw 
water whilst she waited for the leaks to be repaired.  She had also been advised not to use 
the lighting in the kitchen.
Mrs S says that BG is responsible for the damage to her kitchen  ceiling because  although it 
didn't cause the leaks and they was present  prior to BG's initial visit, BG's delay in identifying  
and fixing the leaks contributed to the extent  of the damage. Had the leaks been fixed  
earlier, the damage to her ceiling would've  been  minimal and easily  repaired.
BG says that as the leak was "an uncontrollable water leak", which  indicated  that damage  
had already been caused when it was asked  to attend. It rejected any liability  for the damage  
as the leak had been coming through her ceiling  before its engineers attended and so wasn't 
due to its engineers' workmanship.  It deemed  it to be consequential damage  and as such 
told Mrs S she should contact her household insurers.
 
Mrs S explained that the description  of the leak as "an uncontrollable water leak"  wasn't  
accurate and that was just how her explanation had been interpreted by the member of BG 
staff who took her initial call.
As she was unhappy  with BG's handling  of her leak problem  and its response  to her 
complaint, she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigators view was that if the leak had been repaired sooner it's likely  Mrs S's ceiling  
could've been repaired easily.  BG had apparently agreed to repair  Mrs S's ceiling under her 
policy, and it was unfair that it now wouldn't repair it because the cost was more than it 
expected. She recommended that BG repair Mrs S's ceiling and pay her £100 compensation 
for her trouble and upset.
As BG didn't agree with our investigators  view, Mrs S's complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision. I initially issued a provisional  decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN01740743I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I'm going to uphold  Mrs S's complaint and 
to make a different  award to that suggested  by our investigator. 
It appears that Mrs S contacted BG about a leak on 1 September.  BG's first visit was on 3 
September as she hadn't been at home to give access  on 1 September.  So 3 September  
was BG's first opportunity  to find the source  of the leak. It removed some tiling but wasn't  
able to find the source of the leak on that occasion.
Its next visit wasn't until 10 September, when Mrs S was advised that she should  re-seal 
around her bath and shower. The condition of Mrs S's ceiling continued to get worse.
She reported this to BG on 13 September but declined a visit that evening as it was only 
going to result in her water being  isolated,  and she was doing  this herself.
BG didn't attend again until 20 September. The engineer  on that date made  access  through  
the kitchen ceiling and found  the source of a leak, which he fixed.
But as there  were still signs of wet grout  on the bathroom tiles, Mrs S called  in another  
plumber- and it's not clear when -  who found  another leak source that BG hadn't previously 
noticed, and fixed  it. Mrs S says it was fixed by BG, but BG's records  don't show any visits 
after 20 September.
So it appears that there were two leak sources. It took BG between 3 September and 20
September to identify  the source of at least one of the leaks. It may not have found the 
source of the second leak. During  this time,  the condition of Mrs S's kitchen ceiling 
deteriorated from a leak through the light fitting to the ceiling cracking and bowing to the 
extent that it needed to be propped  up. BG apparently  offered to make it good, but when it 
appeared to be a bigger  job than anticipated,  it declined responsibility and referred Mrs S to 
her home insurance policy.
I've referred to Mrs S's policy document which refers to BG's liability for damage. It states:
 
"7.26  Unless   we are responsible for it. we will not include  loss or damage  to property 
(including any cleaning  needed)  or any other type of loss caused by the boiler or 
system  to which your EnergyExtra'  Product  relates  breaking down  or  being 
accidentally damaged by you or leaking  (for example. damage to furniture caused by 
water leaks).   If access   has  to be made  to your boiler or system.  we will fill in any 
holes and leave   the surface  level but we will not replace   the original  surface  or 
construction. Any redecoration or repair  of damage that may be needed  following our 
work is your responsibility unless   we have been negligent." (my emphasis underlined)
In my view, there was negligence here on the part of BG, so it can't rely on the above  
disclaimer.
BG recorded Mrs S's leak as an "uncontrollable water leak"  which  one might reasonably 
expect would require  a degree  of urgency in its repair. Instead, it appears that BG didn't 
approach this job with any degree  of urgency, and possibly only identified  one leak source.
In my opinion BG was responsible for the level of damage that occurred  to Mrs S's kitchen 
ceiling between 3 September and 20 September 2018. During this time BG, on the basis of 
its own records, visited Mrs S on 3, 10, 13 and 20 September.  Having failed to identify the 
source of either leak at its first visit on 3 September, BG didnt visit again until 10 September.  
Ref: DRN01740744So it shouldve been aware that as it hadnt  fixed any leak, damage would continue. And 
then when Mrs S reported on 13 September that the damage to her ceiling was getting 
worse, and that she was turning off the water supply  herself  (which was what BG offered to 
do late on 13 September), no one called again until 20 September.  
Ive taken into account what BG has said in response to my provisional  decision. It maintains 
that Mrs S had several unrelated  leaks  within  her bathroom for which  it isnt liable. It disputes  
that it caused a leak or delayed in fixing one. 
But these  leaks were  causing damage. Had BG attended more  promptly  and therefore  
identified the source  of both leaks earlier, the damage caused might've been  very 
significantly reduced. I don't think it's reasonable for BG to recommend that Mrs S make a 
claim on her home insurance policy  as this might require her to pay an excess  and might  
result in her premiums increasing  in future years.
In these circumstances I think it would be fair and reasonable for BG either to undertake  the 
repair of Mrs S's kitchen  ceiling, or alternatively to reimburse her promptly for the cost of 
employing a third party of her choosing to undertake the necessary work.
Mrs S has not yet had her ceiling repaired pending  the outcome of this complaint. Following 
my provisional decision she explained  that she hadnt done so as she didnt want  to do 
anything which might be regarded by BG as an admission on her part that she was 
responsible for the repair. 
I think it would also be reasonable for BG to pay Mrs S compensation for what I expect 
would be considerable trouble and upset in having to live with a propped up ceiling since 
September 2018. But as it could reasonably be said that Mrs S could've  made arrangements  
some time ago for it to be repaired,  thereby  reducing the inconvenience, I'm proposing to 
limit this compensation to £350. I dont  think it would be fair to require BG to pay more than 
this simply because it denied liability.
my final decision
For the reason  I've given  above, I'm upholding Mrs S's complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited, at its option,  (such option to be exercised within  14 
days,) either to undertake  the repair of Mrs S's kitchen ceiling within  a further  28 days  or 
alternatively to reimburse Mrs S promptly for the cost of employing  a third party of her 
choosing to undertake the necessary work.
I also require British  Gas Insurance  Limited  to pay Mrs S compensation of £350.  It must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs S accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020
Nige Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0174074