K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Accord Mortgages  Limited made an entry about them on a fraud  
prevention database when it rejected a mortgage application theyd made.
background
Mr G already had a mortgage. He approached a broker in 2017 to discuss  re-mortgaging  
and adding Mrs G to the mortgage.  Ill call the brokers firm F, and Ill call the adviser they 
spoke to M.
Mr and Mrs G say M asked them for their bank statements, and for permission to obtain their 
tax records. She then applied to Accord  for a mortgage.
Mr and Mrs G say Accord asked for more information about their finances,  which  they 
provided. A few days later, they say M told them that Accord  was asking for more  
information  which M considered was excessive, so she was withdrawing the application. M 
said she would approach a different lender instead,  but Mr and Mrs G say they decided  to 
use a different broker.
In 2018, Mr G says he applied for further  finance,  but was rejected. The lender  advised him 
to contact CIFAS, a fraud prevention database. Mr G made a subject  access  request to 
CIFAS and discovered that Accord had recorded  an entry in the database about him. 
Mr G complained to Accord.  He says he also visited F to find out what  had happened,  and 
was told that M had been dismissed  from the firm for gross misconduct. F said it believed 
that she had not been  following  the firms procedures and had been manipulating documents  
 without applicants  knowledge  before submitting them to lenders. But it didnt  provide  
evidence this had happened in Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Accord said it thought  the marker  had been  added fairly. It said it had followed its standard 
checks and hadnt  been able to confirm the information Mr and Mrs G had provided. It said it 
continued to have concerns about  what it had been told, and didnt think it would be right to 
remove the CIFAS entry.
Our investigator didnt  think Accord had acted unfairly, so Mr and Mrs G asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like all lenders, Accord considers information  and evidence it receives in respect of a 
mortgage application. It carries out its standard underwriting checks  to try and confirm  the 
accuracy of what its told and to decide  whether it wants to lend.  Its important to note that 
theres no obligation to lend  and theres no obligation  to give reasons  for a refusal, either.
Ive looked at the information Accord received in respect of this mortgage  application.  Ive 
taken into account  what Mr G has said about his discussions  with M, and Ive also taken into 
account the information F has given us. Ive also looked at the discussions Accord  had with 
Ref: DRN04012732M, and with Mr G directly, as part of the application. And Ive considered  the very different 
income information Mr G later gave our investigator. 
Having done so, I think Accord had reasonable concerns  about  the information  it was given 
as part of the application following the checks it carried out. The information from F doesnt 
show that M was dismissed for any irregularities  on Mr and Mrs Gs application specifically. 
And its recorded in Accords application  notes that Mr G was also involved in discussions 
with Accord directly  and M wasnt the only member of Fs staff that submitted information 
to Accord.
Accord considered  what  both F and Mr G said, as well as the outcome of its underwriting  
checks. Having  done so, it didnt  think it needed  to remove  the CIFAS entry. In all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can say that was unreasonable, and so I dont uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0401273