K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 2000 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as a chef. He has told us he was entitled  to between 3 and 
6 months sick pay benefits from his employer. But he didnt have any other means  such 
as savings  to make his credit card repayments  should he be unable to work. Mr C has said 
he was in good health at the time of the sale. Mr C has also said he was struggling 
financially at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Cs credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 89p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
Capital One has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in 2004.
Mr Cs representative has made some specific representations on his behalf. In summary:
The policy excluded or limited claims for stress,  which are some  of the most common 
reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value  of cover;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Capital One should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved informally, it has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding what in my opinion is fair and reasonable I have taken account of relevant law, 
including the law relating to the utmost duty of good  faith, relevant regulators rules,  
guidance and standards, industry codes  and what I consider to have  been  good industry 
practice at the time.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN03693952key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Capital One gave advice, whether it advised  Mr C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Capital One gave Mr C sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Capital One, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Capital One had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  It has provided a copy  of 
Mr Cs application form. On there I can see that the application form is a postal one, so Mr C 
wouldve completed it without any interaction from a member of staff.  On  the form, it asks 
applicants to select yes or no to take the PPI. On Mr Cs form, the yes box has been 
ticked. Mr C says he doesnt recall ticking to opt for the PPI. But given how long ago the sale 
took place, I think  its likely Mr C has forgotten selecting the policy   which  is understandable. 
So, I think its more likely  that Mr C knew the policy was optional  and he agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did Capital One provide  advice?
Both Capital  One and Mr C agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  Capital One didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr C. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr C to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Capital One has provided us with Mr Cs credit  agreement   showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve received, 
including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  
applied to policies  like Mr Cs. 
Ref: DRN03693953Looking at the information provided to Mr C at the time, I dont think Capital One gave Mr C 
the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Mr C any information  about the 
PPI but it referred  him to a leaflet about it. I think its unlikely Mr C would have agreed to take 
it out without at least reading  some of the extra detail.  And in doing so I think  this would have 
given him a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr C would have thought  it was free.
But it was Capital Ones responsibility to draw to Mr Cs attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Capital One did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost 
of the policy  was made clear to Mr C, including the need to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Capital One 
adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions  simply referring him to more information contained in a separate  document 
wasnt enough.
So I dont  think Capital  One gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a general  
point in regards  to the requirements on a business  when  providing information in PPI sales.  
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised it as:
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to explain the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mr C has suggested. And taking into 
account the law, industry codes and standards of good industry practice  applicable to this 
complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Capital One ought to have 
done either. 
what effect did Capital Ones shortcomings  have on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ref: DRN03693954Ive found that Capital  One didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr C. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr C 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Capital One done things properly. 
Mr C says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr C had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr C thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, I can see the application  form directs  applicants to another  part of the 
form for more detail. And given what I found above about Mr C likely having absorbed some 
of this detail, Im satisfied  Mr C ought reasonably  to have known he would have to pay 
something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance. I accept 
that Capital One didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information  it didnt spell out that the 
premiums were added  to the account  balance so would attract interest.  But on the other 
hand the information didnt say or imply premiums would be paid in some other way. And 
they appeared on Mr Cs statements, so its possible he might have expected this.
So while Mr C didnt know  some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful 
claim was not dissimilar  to what he would reasonably have thought from the information  he 
based his decision  to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant difference between what Mr C thought he had bought and what 
he actually bought was the fact the policy  contained  exclusions  on claims relating to mental  
health conditions.  I do accept that there is a possibility this exclusion might  well have caused 
Mr C pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude that the policy  was not 
as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The exclusion on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the policy. I also 
accept mental health conditions  are common problems as Mr Cs representative has said.
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Mr C has told us that he wouldve had between 3 and 6 
months sick pay benefits from his employer.  And that he didnt have  any savings, or other 
means, he couldve relied on to make  his repayments. The PPI wouldve paid out alongside 
his employee benefits. This meant he couldve  used  those to pay for other essential costs if 
he was too unwell to work  or became unemployed. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest he wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr C didnt have  any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  Ive noted Mr Cs 
comments about struggling financially at the time the policy was taken out. But as I said 
above the cost of the PPI was set out on Mr Cs credit card statements and the policy  
Ref: DRN03693955couldve been cancelled  at any time So, I still think he had some  good reasons to take the 
policy out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr C would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0369395