K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the service that hes received  from Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax.
background
Mr K has a credit card account with Halifax. He didnt receive  an account statement in 
September 2018 and didnt make a payment  to his account so he received a late payment 
reminder by text. Halifax then sent him a statement for October 2018. The minimum 
payment required  included the missed  payment from the September 2018 statement. Mr K 
complained to Halifax and asked it to show the minimum monthly payments separately. 
It upheld his complaint  in a final response  letter that was sent to him in October  2018.  And it 
offered to pay him compensation of £75 (£50 for the distress and inconvenience  that hed 
been caused and £25 to cover his call costs) and it asked Mr K to contact it to arrange the 
payment. It said:
I understand [that] you did not receive your September statement which  was due to 
a technical bank issue. This resulted  in you receiving a text message in relation to a 
late payment. I understand your next statement shows both your September  and 
October minimum payments  duplicated.  We have duplicated your minimum 
payments on one statement however we cannot  send you a revised one with 
separate ones.  I can see that the minimum payment due at the moment for 
September is £39.43 and for October is £39.43. You can make a manual payment  for 
this before the November statement is due.
And it apologised that its actions had caused  him inconvenience, assured him that he 
wouldnt be charged a late payment fee and it said that it would check that his credit file 
wasnt affected. It also sent him copies of both the September and October statements.
But Mr K says that he didnt receive  the final response letter so he phoned Halifax to 
complain. It sent him a second final response  letter in November 2018 in which  it listed 
seven different issues about  which  Mr K had complained and responded substantively  to 
each of those  issues. 
But Mr K complained to Halifax again and he said that hed been told that the two final 
response letters would be e-mailed to him, that hed been called  by his first name when 
there were notes on his file to advise that it shouldnt do so and that hed received poor 
service in his recent calls to it.
Halifax sent another final response letter to Mr K in December 2018  and said that its letters  
had been sent to Mr Ks address but that it hadnt agreed to e-mail  them  to him. And it didnt 
agree that the overall service that hed received  was unacceptable. It said that it would 
e-mail its final response letters to him and sent further copies to him. And it paid him £25 to 
compensate him for the inconvenience that he was caused when he was called by his first 
name. 
But Mr K wasnt  satisfied  with Halifaxs responses so he complained  to this service. The 
investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Halifax had 
recognised that things  could've  gone better in the call when Mr K was referred to by his first 
name, but it maintained that every  call handler  was trying to provide the best service to Mr K 
Ref: DRN07466822that they could.  And he believed that all of the call handlers wanted  to help Mr K to the best 
that they could.  And taking everything into consideration,  he felt that the level of 
compensation that Halifax had offered Mr K was fair  so he said that he wouldnt be 
recommending it to offer anything further.  
Mr K has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that he still hasnt  received  the final response  letters,  that hes only received £25 
compensation from Halifax and that these issues have made his health  issues worse.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mr K for the health 
issues from which he suffers  and for the frustration  he clearly feels about the service that 
hes received from Halifax.
Mr K has complained to Halifax about multiple issues.  And it has sent three final response  
letters to Mr K  but he says that they havent  been  received. All three letters  were  properly  
addressed to Mr K using  the address that hes provided to this service  and I consider it to 
be more likely than not that they were sent to him by Halifax   even if they werent  received 
by him. 
Halifax says that Mr K didnt receive his September 2018 credit card statement because of 
technical issues. Its apologised  for that and has offered him £75 compensation. Its also 
sent him copies of his September and October  2018 credit card statements  but he says 
that he hasnt  received  them either. So Ive asked a colleague to e-mail to Mr K copies of the 
three final response letters and the September and October 2018 credit card statements.
Ive considered all of the issues about which Mr K has complained.  I consider  that Halifax  
has dealt with all of those  issues  fairly  and reasonably.  It has paid £25 compensation to him 
because he was called by his first name  when hes asked for that not to happen  and 
Halifax has confirmed that its records are marked to show that he shouldnt  be called by his 
first name. I consider that the £25 compensation that its paid to him is fair and reasonable 
compensation for that issue. 
Mr K has made a data subject access request about his bank accounts  with Halifax   but he 
doesnt have any bank accounts with Halifax  only a credit card account and a mortgage 
account. So Im not persuaded  that it has acted incorrectly by saying that he doesnt  have a 
bank account  with Halifax. 
I consider that Halifax has dealt  with Mr K fairly and reasonably. There  have been some  
issues with the customer service that hes received  but I consider that Halifax has dealt with 
those issues promptly and thoroughly. And I consider that its responses to those issues  have 
been fair and reasonable. Its paid £25 compensation to Mr K and has offered to pay a 
further £75 compensation to him. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay 
to Mr K the £75 compensation that its offered to him. But Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require it to pay him any other compensation  or to take any 
other action  in response to his complaint.
Ref: DRN07466823my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  should  pay to 
Mr K the £75 compensation that its offered to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0746682