K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained because  their home  insurer, Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc, has accused them of fraud and avoided their policy  from the date they 
made a claim (treated it as though it hasnt existed  from that point).
background
In late August 2018 Mr S was away on holiday with his family (in the UK). They were in 
the habit of spending a lot of time on the beach.  Having been  spending some time one 
day at a beach theyd not previously visited, when Mr S came  out of the water  he noticed 
his sunglasses and Rolex were missing from the familys  belongings which  had been left 
on the beach. He looked for the items  and asked passers-by. He reported  the matter  to 
the police  who told him to record it on-line.  When the family returned  home  a couple of 
days later,  Mr S found  his insurance  details and notified RSA.
RSA accepted the claim. It appointed a jewellery specialist who validated the authenticity  
of the watch and that Mr S had owned it. Given the nature  of the item, and the 
circumstances of loss though, it was felt necessary to interview Mr S. Having done so the 
assessor didnt find any issues with the claim  but felt it should  be declined  under the 
policy terms  because  the watch had been  unattended at the time it went  missing. RSA 
noted it could,  and should,  have  made  a decision  about the claim based  on the exclusion 
when it was notified. It spoke to Mr S, apologised for this and all of the inconvenience of 
the claim that followed. It offered £150 compensation and the claim was closed. That was 
September 2018.
In December 2018 Mr S called RSA. He said hed unexpectedly found the watch   
hidden at the back of the glove compartment of his car  it hadnt  been stolen after all.
Mr S later explained that when he found  the watch the true events of the day came  back 
to him  just before going  down to the new beach  hed decided  to leave the watch  in the 
car, rather than take it with him to the beach as normal and storing it with his sun-glasses  
in his hat when going in the water. But when he came out of the water  later and found his 
hat was empty,  hed automatically thought the sun-glasses and the watch were both 
missing.
Whilst talking to RSA in December 2018 Mr S advised that, having found the watch, hed 
tried to sell it but couldnt as it was recorded as stolen (on a register  kept by the 
manufacturer). He needed RSA to update  the register. RSA referred the matter back to 
its assessor. In the meantime the policy renewed.
The assessor concluded that the initial claim Mr S had made  must  have  been  false.  RSA 
wrote to Mr and Mrs S. It said there were clear discrepancies between  the circumstances of 
the loss and how the watch had later been  found.  It didnt think Mr S had dealt  with it 
honestly, that in fact hed made  a falsified claim.  RSA referred Mr S to the fraud  condition  of 
the policy and said it was avoiding his cover  back to the date of the claim. It said it wouldnt 
be refunding any premium. Mr S complained to us.
Our investigator felt that RSA had acted reasonably, given the detail Mr S had supplied  to 
it when the claim was made and during RSAs initial investigations. Mr S was dissatisfied; 
he felt the tone of the findings suggested  he was lying and this upset him. He explained 
how stressful everything had been,  not least because he hasnt been  able to find 
Ref: DRN07881662insurance cover since the fraud accusation was made. The complaint was passed to me 
to consider and I felt RSA had acted unfairly.  I issued some  provisional findings and the 
parties have now responded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
It cant be denied that there is a stark difference between the location and circumstances 
in which  Mr S found his watch, and those he reported when he believed the item was 
stolen. But does that mean  its reasonable to conclude  he was most  likely making  a 
fraudulent claim in the first instance? Im not persuaded  it does.
If there were other compelling factors to add to this then I might  be persuaded. But the 
only other detail I see on RSAs file in respect of any initial  concerns about  the claim is 
that during its initial investigations its assessor didnt  like the fact Mr S was suggesting 
hed left (and would  usually  leave)  his expensive watch on the beach whilst swimming.  
And that whilst he was otherwise confident and able to make  eye contact during the 
interview, he was hesitant and avoided eye contact whilst recounting  the details of the 
loss.
The assessor though doesnt make a conclusion about the body language  doesnt 
determine in the report for example that this suggests he was lying or creating the story 
about the loss. And in that respect what he said to the assessor seems  to accord with 
what he reported when  he made  the claim.
Whilst the assessor didnt  like  the circumstances reported, it was accepted  there was no 
evidence that suggested Mr S wasnt telling the truth.  It was then that the exclusion to 
cover was noted and a decision  to decline the claim was made.
So the key factor in Mr S being  accused of fraud was his calling RSA to tell it hed found 
the watch and ask for it to be removed from the loss register. At this point  the assessor 
reviewed matters and noted  Mr S had asked for the box and paperwork to be returned 
when the claim was declined. This was felt to be suspicious behaviour too. The assessor 
felt thered be no value  to the paperwork,  although  the box could be sold.
I realise Mr S gave some specific details about  having been wearing the watch before 
going into the water to swim, and detailed some  other memories  which  clearly  cant  have 
actually happened  (as the watch was in the car). But he seems  to have believed at the 
time that this was what had happened  and I can accept  that when one isnt paying 
attention and is more focused on having fun, you dont necessarily recall everything 
correctly. To me Mr Ss explanations make sense, and I dont think RSA has sufficient 
evidence to reasonably conclude he is lying. RSA hasnt persuaded me that its decision 
to accuse Mr and Mrs S of fraud, which caused  it to avoid their policy, was fair or 
reasonable. It needs to revoke  that action and put matters right for Mr and Mrs S.
Removing the record  of the fraud  from its own and any industry databases  is a start but 
wont by itself put Mr and Mrs S back into the position they would have been in but for 
RSAs unfair  and unreasonable decision. There  is no claim to consider here  because  
Ref: DRN07881663that was declined (correctly,  if belatedly) and the watch was found.  But Mr and Mr S have  
now had a gap in insurance   and this will make getting cover  in the future  more  difficult  
even once the avoidance is revoked. So RSA will need to reinstate their cover to date, if 
they wish it to, allowing  Mr and Mrs S suitable chance to pay the backdated premium (for 
2018/2019). Id suggest it is reinstated as it was, with a view to it being  in place until the 
next renewal.  If Mr and Mrs S wish to change insurers before then, RSA should allow 
them to cancel the cover  with it without penalty.  RSA will also have to pay them  
compensation for the upset its actions  have caused. I think  £500  is fair and reasonable.
RSA said it maintained that Mr S had substantially changed his story.  But it made no 
other comment or objection. 
I accept Mr Ss story  has changed. Substantially. But my point provisionally and now is 
that a change in story  alone,  even  a substantial one, doesnt necessarily equate to a fair 
finding of fraud.  Id  be very surprised if no-one  working at RSA had ever misplaced an 
object only to find it somewhere  entirely different to where they had thought  it should  be, 
only to think to themselves; oh, yeah, I put it there because.. 
RSAs comment in reply hasnt caused me to change my mind or think my provisional  
findings were unfair. They now form part of the findings of this, my final decision.
Mr and Mrs S said they were pleased with the decision. But wanted  to make a couple of 
comments.
Mr S said,  regarding  the comments about his body language, that this was as stressful 
situation and he cant see how his actions during the conversation can fairly  be 
measured. I appreciate  it was upsetting  for Mr S to hear this information  but assessing  
body language is a standard part of an assessors remit in this type of situation. But 
Mr and Mrs Ss point  here brings  me back to what I said provisionally; noting the body 
language is one thing, but without an expert  opinion  as to what  this shows, the fact of it is 
at best meaningless and certainly  doesnt  go towards a fair finding  of fraud.
Mr S was also upset about RSAs  view of his request for the watch box and papers to be 
returned. He explained some counter arguments. But as Im upholding the complaint  and 
wasnt persuaded by what  RSA had said on this point anyway, I wont consider Mr Ss 
arguments further.
Mr and Mrs S explained a bit about how this accusation had affected  them;  theyd chosen 
not to go on holiday  on occasion, and, when  they had gone,  spent  a good amount of time 
worrying about their uninsured house. Mr S said that the compensation was welcomed 
but would  be eaten up if they had to pay backdated premiums  for reinstated cover. He 
said he isnt sure how having a gap in insurance  will affect them  moving forwards and, 
even if the cover is reinstated, they wouldnt want to stay with RSA.
I do understand how this has affected Mr and Mrs S.  I accept it was very upsetting  to be 
accused like this and to be without insurance  as a consequence. Im satisfied that £500  
compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
I realise that paying  backdated premiums is an unexpected  expense. But if Mr and Mrs S 
want to benefit  from not having a gap in insurance then they will have to make an 
arrangement with RSA to pay it the premium they would have been charged if it hadnt  
unfairly avoided  their cover on the ground  of fraud.  In my experience, when arranging a 
Ref: DRN07881664policy, insurers usually ask if there has been a gap in cover. A positive response may 
mean no offer of cover  is made and, where it is, will usually mean an increased premium 
is charged. Not always, and how much will vary between providers. So I cant  say for 
sure exactly  how Mr and Mrs S will be affected by having a gap in insurance.  They  may 
wish to look into this before deciding whether or not they want RSA to reinstate their 
cover. As I said, if cover is reinstated RSA should  allow it to be cancelled by them  without 
penalty once they wish it to (likely once they have new cover  arranged). 
My view on this complaint hasnt changed.  Im satisfied RSA acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably and it will now have  to make up for that.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
Remove the record  of the avoidance  from its own and any industry database.
If Mr and Mrs S tell it they want it to; reinstate Mr and Mrs Ss cover as directed above.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0788166