K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ks complaint is that she was incorrectly advised by Foundation for Credit Counselling 
(FCC) about her mortgage  and as a result she had lost benefit payments because  of the 
wrong advice.
background
In 2016 Mrs K had an existing mortgage with a high-street lender on an interest-only basis.  
She was retired and received support for mortgage interest (SMI)  payments, which paid the 
monthly interest on the mortgage. The mortgage  term was coming to an end and Mrs K 
needed to repay the capital balance. She didnt have the money to do this and sought advice 
from FCC about what to do. 
FCC recommended  a mortgage to Mrs K, which it said was the only one that would allow her 
to continue receiving  SMI payments. It did, however,  tell her that should her circumstances 
mean that she was ineligible for those payments, she should  tell it and it would recommend 
a mortgage that would work out cheaper. Mrs K accepted the recommendation, the 
mortgage was applied for and granted. Mrs K then found  out that the mortgage was not 
eligible for SMI and she stopped  receiving  payments. She has provided  documentation from 
the benefits appeal she put in which confirms this. 
Mrs K complained to FCC, but it didnt  uphold her complaint, so Mrs K referred her complaint 
to this service. It was initially considered by one of our investigators,  who also didnt uphold 
the complaint.  
Mrs Ks complaint was then considered  by one of my ombudsman  colleagues.  She issued a 
provisional decision upholding the complaint, but requiring further information be provided.  
Following the provisional decision further  submissions  were made and evidence  provided.
Mrs K said that she was not offered any choices or told about any other  mortgage,  so she 
couldnt provide  any further information regarding the alternative she might have taken. 
Mrs K also pointed out that she was tied in to the mortgage that had been recommended,  as 
there would be a penalty charge if she repaid it.
FCC provided transcripts of a discussion between Mrs K and its adviser. In that conversation 
it was made  clear to Mrs K that the mortgage  recommended was only the right one if she 
was eligible for SMI. It was made clear that this was the only risk to Mrs K not receiving SMI, 
as the mortgage was eligible. FCC also provided  a list of the times it warned Mrs K that she 
had to ensure  she was eligible for continued SMI payments.
FCC accepted that it didnt explain to Mrs K that she might not be eligible for SMI because  of 
the mortgages eligibility. However, at the time of the advice, it had used  various sources of 
information to establish that the mortgage  was eligible. It said that it had recommended  the 
mortgage to other clients and they had received SMI, so it considered  that Mrs K not 
receiving it was a mistake by the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP),  rather  than a 
mistake on its part. As such,  it doesnt  consider that there was any reason to warn  Mrs K that 
the mortgage might not be eligible for SMI payments.
In addition, FCC said that Mrs K has said that she was confident that, if her SMI application 
was declined, she would be able to pay the monthly mortgage interest with help from her son. 
FCC also said that it had assessed  her financial situation and she would have been able to 
Ref: DRN09301042make the payments herself, even  without help from her family. It also highlighted  that Mrs K 
had been told that if she was not longer eligible for SMI, it could recommend a mortgage 
where she could  make  ad-hoc payments and would be charged a lower  interest rate. 
Subsequently, FCC provided a copy of the September 2016 comparison report  from which  it 
had selected the mortgage it recommended  to Mrs K. It said that had it known that Mrs K 
would not receive  SMI, it would have recommended a mortgage with a different lender 
(Lender F), which was described on the report as voluntary payment lite LTV fixed.  This 
was because it was the cheapest product that was available to Mrs K and satisfied her 
needs at the time of the advice. It documented these as:
A lifetime  fixed rate of interest: important as Mrs K has a fixed, limited income.
Fixed early repayment charges: Mrs K had explained that she intended to move  within  
10 years. It would have  allowed  her to port her mortgage if she needed to and also 
provided downsizing  protection  after 5 years (so no early repayment  charge (ERC) 
would be applied).
The ability to make  regular, flexible repayments without the need for a contractual  
payment to be made: there was no restriction  on payments  being  made,  as long as they 
equalled a minimum  of £25.
Mrs Ks home would  have met the lenders criteria, as it was a leasehold flat.
FCC went  on to explain that whilst this would have been cheaper at the time of the 
recommendation, by the time the mortgage  completed, the rate on the mortgage  she did 
take had reduced  and the fixed rate on the Lender F mortgage had increased. As such, the 
interest rate on the product recommended was lower than the alternative Mrs K could  have 
had. In other words,  Mrs K had not suffered  a loss because of the error FCC had made.
I considered all of the original evidence and the additional information provided and obtained 
following my colleagues provisional decision. I issued another  provisional decision on 
23 January 2019.  In that document I set out my conclusions regarding this complaint  and my 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that decision.
I have considered what FCC has said and the ruling made by the benefit tribunal Mrs K took 
the SMI decision to. I am satisfied that FCCs  analysis  of the mortgage and benefit situation 
was wrong. The tribunal  has clearly said that the fact that a mortgagor chooses to have 
interest payments  built in the contract, but can stop paying them  if they choose, means that 
the mortgage isnt eligible for SMI payments. I am satisfied that FCCs analysis of the 
mortgage eligibility was flawed and that it gave  Mrs K incorrect  advice. 
As such,  I must consider  what  Mrs K would have done, had she been given the correct 
information. FCC said in its correspondence  that the mortgage it recommended was the only 
one available  to it which would qualify for SMI payments. Had Mrs K been told that there 
were none  available, I think she would have taken  the cheapest alternative option  that 
fulfilled her remaining  needs. Indeed, FCC said that it would have recommended a cheaper 
option from those  available  if SMI wasnt available to Mrs K. 
Ref: DRN09301043FCC has said that it would have recommended a different  mortgage  and detailed which one. 
It has said that Mrs K hasnt suffered a financial loss because  the fixed  rate mortgage  
available at the time of completion  was a higher rate than either  the rate Mrs K did pay on 
her existing mortgage or would have done  had she stopped making  payments.  However,  this 
reasoning doesnt make  sense because if Mrs K had applied  for a fixed rate mortgage and 
been made an offer, the interest rate would have remained that which  was on the offer and 
wouldnt have changed because the fixed rates being offered at a later date had changed. 
So I am not persuaded that Mrs K didnt suffer a loss.
I have also looked  at the justification for the selection of the mortgage  FCC has given. I can 
understand most of the reasons for the recommendation. However, given that Mrs Ks 
priority was for flexibility and then to have the lowest interest  rate possible, I am at a loss as 
to why FCC says it would  have locked her into a fixed  interest rate that was significantly 
higher than the identical variable rate version of the mortgage. 
The reason  it has documented was because Mrs K has a fixed  and limited income. However, 
as she would only be making payments as and when she wanted  and for amounts she could 
afford, that would not be a good  reason for her to pay more interest than she needed to. 
Indeed, a fixed rate is usually arranged so that the contractual payments are consistent and 
predictable so that a consumer can budget for the costs. As the interest would roll up on the 
lifetime mortgage budgeting  for payments wouldnt have been a significant concern. As 
such, I dont consider that a variable  rate mortgage  would be inappropriate for Mrs K, 
especially when it provided the lending at a notably  cheaper cost.
As such,  I consider that of the options that FCC could  have  selected  for Mrs K in 2016, the 
most appropriate would appear to be the variable rate equivalent of the mortgage it has said 
it would  have recommended.  Given that at the time of application this would have had an 
interest rate of 3.44%,  I think it likely  that Mrs K has been financially disadvantaged  by the 
error FCC made. 
When recommending  redress  the aim of this service  is to place the consumer in as close  a 
position to that which  they would have been  in, but for the error that occurred. In this type of 
situation, that would be for FCC to arrange Mrs Ks lending to be transferred from the 
existing mortgage  to the one that she should  have had. FCC would pay any costs  associated 
with the changes and transfer.
Unfortunately, [Lender F] no longer provides that exact mortgage that I consider Mrs K 
rightly should have been recommended.  However, it has provided details of the equivalent 
mortgage it currently provides  Interest Roll-up with Voluntary  Payment  Option Lite. The 
main difference between  the mortgages appears  to be that there is a cap on the amount she 
can pay toward the mortgage  without incurring an early repayment  charge  10% of the loan 
balance each year. Our investigator  will provide the product guide and details of the interest 
rate to both parties under separate cover.
Mrs K confirmed that she considered my provisional  decision  to be fair and satisfactory.
FCC initially  didnt accept  my provisional decision.  It reiterated that it believes that the DWP 
decision and the subsequent appeal  outcome  are wrong and inconsistent  with its experience 
of the product Mrs K was sold. Mrs K was consistently advised  against proceeding with the 
application until the outcome of her SMI application  was known. She was told that there 
were products with lower  rates  available if she wasnt able to claim SMI.
Ref: DRN09301044Given it repeatedly advised  Mrs K that its advice was only suitable in the event that her claim 
was successful, FCC believes that it is unreasonable that she has retrospectively sought  to 
claim mis-advice. It would, however, happily review her needs at the present time and 
recommend an alternative product for her.
In relation to my proposed  award, it has effectively said that it cannot comply with my 
decision without undertaking a full review of her circumstances  and providing  new advice. It 
doesnt think that it would be appropriate  to deal with the matter on an execution  only basis. 
As a gesture  of good will, FCC has said that it will cover any ERC,  legal fees and application 
fees that Mrs K may incur  if following it completing a new assessment of her needs and 
circumstances, it recommends a different product be taken. It is also willing to pay Mrs K 
£250 for the inconvenience and upset she has suffered,  but without accepting liability.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCC has repeated its comments about  the eligibility of the product it recommended.  I would 
like to assure FCC that I considered these  fully before I issued my provisional  decision. As 
for its assertion that the error was on Mrs Ks part, because  she wasnt  eligible for the SMI 
benefit, I can only say that this assertion  is wrong.  Mrs K had been in receipt of the SMI 
benefit before the change to her mortgage.  There had been no changes to her personal or 
financial circumstances, other than the mortgage.  As such,  it is clear  that it is the mortgage 
that was not eligible for SMI to be claimed  in connection with it, as is made  clear  from the 
tribunal findings.
Having considered the further representations of FCC, I havent  been persuaded to change  
my conclusions about this complaint. I consider it made an error in recommending  a product 
as eligible for SMI when it wasnt. Had it not been  wrong about the SMI eligibility I am 
satisfied that Mrs K would  have  been  recommended a cheaper  mortgage product, as FCC 
said it would  have recommended. As for FCCs  comments about it not being able to make 
the arrangements to alter Mrs Ks mortgage because  of the regulatory requirements: I would 
remind FCC that the regulator requires it to comply  with an ombudsmans  decision. I also 
consider that it would be entirely inappropriate for Mrs K to be forced  to go through  an advice 
process with FCC in the circumstances of it having  mis-sold her existing mortgage.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Foundation for Credit  Counselling  to:
Assist  Mrs K in re-mortgaging her property to Lender F (details previously provided) 
Interest Roll-up  Voluntary Payment Option  Lite mortgage. The new mortgage should be 
arranged for the same  amount  as Mrs K borrowed with her existing lender; 
Establish the interest payments Mrs K has paid on the existing mortgage. It should also 
be calculated what interest would have been charged (and reasonably paid by Mrs K) on 
the mortgage she should have  had (not that which she will be re-mortgaged  to now) for 
the same  period.  If more was paid to the existing mortgage, it should be refunded.  8% 
simple interest should be added  from the dates of payment to the date of settlement. If 
FCC considers that it is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from the interest 
Ref: DRN09301045payment, it should provide Mrs K with the appropriate documentation which will allow  her 
to reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Pay any fees and costs associated with the re-mortgage process, including  any ERC  payable.
As Mrs K will have  an ERC on the mortgage for longer than she would  have had, if the 
correct mortgage  had been recommended originally, FCC will retain a liability for this too. 
If Mrs K repays the new mortgage within the ERC  payment period, FCC should  establish 
what, if the mortgage had started  when  it should  have in early 2017, Mrs K would have 
paid as an ERC (if anything). If Mrs K has to pay more  than that, FCC should refund  to 
her the difference. 
Pay Mrs K £250 for the inconvenience and upset this error has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0930104