K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out by Mr and Mrs B in or 
around January  1993, with a mortgage.  They say it was mis-sold to them by Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS), trading at that time as Leeds Permanent  Building Society.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 4 December 2019, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In it I set out the background to and circumstances of this complaint and explained why 
I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold.  But I invited  Mr and Mrs B and BoS to send  me any 
more information  or comments  they wanted  me to consider before I issued my final decision.
BoS didnt comment  on that provisional  decision. Mr and Mrs B said they were  disappointed 
with my provisional views  but didnt  wish to send or tell me anything  further. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general  approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
I realise that Mr and Mrs B have put considerable effort into their complaint and dont agree 
with my conclusions. And after so many years I dont have very much clear or detailed 
information about the sale. But Ive weighed up all the evidence that I do have, to decide  
what in my view, on balance, is most likely  to have happened. Having done that, the 
outcome and my reasoning remain as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  which Ive explained,  Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
 
Chris Langford
ombudsman
                                       
Ref: DRN04850562                                         copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out by Mr and Mrs B in or around 
January 1993, with a mortgage. They say it was mis-sold to them by Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS), 
trading at that time as Leeds  Permanent Building  Society.
background
In 1993 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage. They also bought a monthly  premium PPI policy, which  
covered just Mr B. It would pay benefits for up to 12 months at a time if Mr B was off work ill or injured, 
or if he lost his job. The mortgage and PPI policy both ended in 1997.
Mr and Mrs B are complaining  about how that policy was sold to them. Among other things, they say 
they were told they had to have it to get the mortgage. They also say its terms and its appropriateness  
for them werent discussed,  and they dont  feel they really  needed it.
Our adjudicator didnt think their complaint should be upheld.  But Mr and Mrs B dont  agree, so its 
come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case. Having done that, I dont currently think  the 
policy was mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
After so long,  BoS arent now able to tell us how the PPI was sold. Mr and Mrs B say it was in a 
meeting and theyre probably right. But Ive not been given any notes of the meeting  to show me 
what, if anything was discussed  about  PPI. So I have to decide what  I thinks most  likely to have 
happened based on BoSs limited computer records, what Mr and Mrs B can remember about  the 
sale and the few documents that are available from around that time.
were Mr and Mrs B given  a fair choice?
Mr and Mrs B have said they were told the PPI was mandatory, so they felt they had to take it out. But 
the paperwork Ive been given includes a form they signed in December 1992 stating  that the fixed  
rate mortgage  which they ultimately  decided to have was only available  if the applicant  takes out 
two or more of the Societys  general insurance  products. 
So I think what Mr and Mrs B were  actually told was that if they wanted to get that particular  mortgage 
product they had to take out two types of insurance through BoS,  and one of those which they then 
chose was PPI. This is confirmed  by a letter BoS sent when the mortgage completed,  saying theyd 
taken out its buildings  and contents cover and income protection (the PPI),  and by a later letter  which 
said that taking out insurance through BoS,  and keeping it in force for the five year fixed rate period, 
was a condition of their particular mortgage.
In my view this didnt deprive  Mr and Mrs B of a fair choice. Thats because  BoS was reasonably  
entitled to attach  a condition of this sort to a particular  mortgage product, as long as it made  clear that 
it was doing so. It was then up to Mr and Mrs B to choose  whether  they wished to proceed with that 
form of mortgage, in order  to get the preferential rate, or to take out a different one  whether with 
BoS or elsewhere. And even if they elected to go ahead, they didnt need to have PPI with it - they 
couldve chosen another type of insurance instead.
Ref: DRN04850563Mr and Mrs B have said they didnt  need any of the other  insurance on offer and so had no choice 
but to accept  the only insurance left, which was PPI. I dont  know what  other cover they were offered,  
but this was a choice for them to make  or they remained free to opt for a different mortgage  product 
which didnt require them to buy other insurance from BoS as part of the package. Theyve  said the 
fixed rate mortgage was competitive and that opting for alternatives wouldve  been more  
expensive, but that didnt mean they had to choose it.
were Mr and Mrs B given  good enough advice and information?
I dont know whether BoS recommended  the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs B. They say it did, and in order  
to be fair to them Im going  to make that assumption in this decision. This means  BoS had to check it 
was suitable for them. 
There arent any records now to show me what, if any questions BoS asked Mr and Mrs B about their 
employment and financial  circumstances at that time. They say they werent  asked about their 
employee benefits. But if BoS did advise them to have the PPI, on balance I think  that 
recommendation was reasonable and the policy wasnt unsuitable.
Thats because from what I know about their circumstances when  they took out the PPI, and looking 
at the likely  policy terms, I think Mr B was eligible for it. Although Mr and Mrs B feel the exclusions 
and excesses  were considerable, I dont  think  he wouldve been affected  by any of the main  things it 
didnt cover. As I explain later in this decision, to my mind  it couldve been helpful  for them  if Mr B had 
been off work  ill or injured or lost his job. And Ive not seen anything to suggest  they couldnt afford  it 
at that time.  
But BoS still had to give Mr and Mrs B clear and fair information about  the cost and main features of 
the PPI, so they could decide whether or not to have it.
I dont know what Mr and Mrs B were told about  the policy,  or what written information  they were 
given, before they agreed to have it. They say the policy  terms werent  explained to them. And I think 
its possible the information they got wasnt as clear or full as it shouldve  been. But in my view, its 
unlikely that getting better information about the PPI wouldve made  any difference to their decision. I 
think theyd probably still have decided  to have it.
Thats because the PPI was intended to ensure they could still pay for their mortgage if Mr B couldnt  
work. Theyve  told us Mr B was the main earner  at that time. They were borrowing a large amount 
over a potentially long period (20 years). And it was secured on their home, so the effect of not 
keeping up the repayments  couldve been  very serious  for them.
The PPI was paid for monthly.  So it didnt add to their borrowing or attract interest. And  at least after 
theyd had it for five years  - they could cancel it at any time, without  having to pay anything more,  if 
their situation  changed or they no longer wanted it.  
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs B have said that at the time they took out the PPI, Mr B 
wouldve got good sick pay from his job, or generous  redundancy  terms if he lost it. They  say Mr B 
was also entitled  to ill health retirement benefits and they believe they also had private redundancy 
insurance, although  understandably after so long - theres  no longer any paperwork available to 
provide details of that, so I cant attach much weight to it. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any employee  benefits or other insurance, leaving  these 
available to meet their other expenses at what would  likely be a difficult time.  The PPI benefits 
couldve gone  on for longer than Mr Bs full sick pay. And the PPI wouldve left their savings intact for 
other purposes. Theyd chosen not to put those savings  towards buying the house,  so I think  its 
reasonable to conclude they preferred to keep them for future needs.
So even taking into account Mr Bs employee  benefits and their likely savings in early 1993, I think the 
PPI couldve been useful for Mr and Mrs B. Taking it out also enabled them to have the particular  
Ref: DRN04850564mortgage product which they wanted. And in my view, they havent lost out because of anything BoS 
mightve done  wrong.
I know Mr and Mrs B feel strongly, have put a lot of time and effort  into the complaint  and will be 
disappointed by this outcome. Im grateful for the information theyve provided and Ive thought 
carefully about all the points theyve made. But on balance, based on everything Ive read and been 
told up to now, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not currently  intending to uphold  this complaint.  
I invite Mr and Mrs B and Bank of Scotland plc to send me, by the date Ive said, any more  
information or comments theyd like me to consider before I give my final decision.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0485056