K821x#15complaint
Mr M says that he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance,  (PPI), policy. Its 
been agreed that Canada  Square Operations Limited, (CSO),  will be responsible 
for any complaints  about the sale. For simplicity Ive referred to CSO  throughout my  
decision.
background
This complaint is about a single-premium PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2003.  Mr M 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. CSO disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. This is because CSO was required to give Mr M 
clear information about the policy so that he could make a properly informed decision 
whether he wanted  it or not. And I think that it failed to do this. In particular I think that it 
didnt give him enough  information  about the cost of the PPI. I say this because  Ive seen 
Mr Ms signed application for the PPI. This shows the premium  for the policy,  as well as the 
premium for another policy applied for at the same time. Ive also seen  his signed loan 
agreement. This latter  document sets out the amount of the cash loan, the premiums for all 
the insurance products Mr M took out with the loan, an administration fee and the total 
amount advanced  - being the sum of all these.  Below this, among other information, the 
agreement sets out the number of monthly loan repayments and their amount. Nowhere do 
these two documents show the interest  charged just on the PPI premium or the PPI policys 
total cost. Nor do they show the monthly  cost of the PPI. And I havent been  given copies of 
any other documents that Mr M may have seen that had this information.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr M because, had he known the full cost of the 
insurance, I dont think that he would have  thought  that it was good  value. And I dont think 
that he would have chosen  to take it. So, I think Mr M has lost out because  of what  CSO did 
wrong. 
Ive taken into account CSOs comments, including what it said about  Mr M being able to 
work out the total and monthly cost of the PPI from the figures  that were available. However 
CSO was required to give clear information about  the policy,  including  its cost. And I dont 
find that this obligation was satisfied  by providing  figures from which the missing  information 
could be worked  out by something other than a totally simple and obvious calculation.  So 
this and CSOs other comments  dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN06718102fair compensation
Mr M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been  and 
he paid more than he should have each  month. So Mr M needs to get back the extra  hes 
paid. 
So, CSO should:
Work  out and pay Mr M the difference between what  he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he would  have  paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr M paid each month  from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr M made  a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy  CSO  can take off what  he got for 
the claim  from the amount  it owes  him.
 If CSO considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Canada Square  Operations Limited should pay Mr M compensation in line with the 
calculation of fair compensation above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671810