K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain Equiniti Financial Services Limited sold 3,000 shares they owned  
without their permission  or knowledge and obtained a poor price too.
background
Mr and Mrs J have a joint nominee share  dealing account provided by Equiniti Financial 
Services.
In 2018 Mr J complained  to Equiniti  Financial  Services that it had sold 3,000 shares he and 
his wife owned without their permission or consent.
Equiniti Financial Services investigated  Mr and Mrs Js complaint but didnt uphold  it. It said 
that it had sold 3,000 shares Mr and Mrs J owned  in Vedanta  Resources  Limited  having  let 
them know  that a third party had made an offer which itd accept  on Mr and Mrs Js behalf 
unless it heard back otherwise. It said that it didnt  hear back  from Mr and Mrs J and so sold 
the shares. Mr J complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint and said that Equiniti Financial Services 
had acted in line with its terms and conditions and hadnt acted unfairly. Our investigator 
sent a copy of the terms and conditions to Mr J. Mr J disagreed  with what our investigator  
said, saying, amongst other things, that when  Equiniti Financial Services  had written to them  
it had said If you want to accept, please  notify  us and we will accept on your behalf. If you 
would like to decline,  please notify  us no later than 5pm on 23.08.2018. Mr J asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint which is what Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has already sent Mr J a copy of the terms  of conditions of the nominee 
dealing account  he and his wife have  with Equiniti Financial Services. Those  terms and 
conditions say:
In the event of an optional capital event (such  as a takeover offer or rights issue) in 
relation to Investments held on your behalf,  we will use reasonable efforts to notify you 
in order to obtain your instructions.  Where  instructions are not received from you 
within such period  as we specify, we will proceed in accordance with the default 
notified to you at the time.
In July 2018 a third party announced that it wanted  to takeover Vedanta Resources Limited.  
The third party offered to buy the shares it didnt  yet own in Vedanta Resources Limited.  
That takeover  bid became  a recommended offer.
On 6 August  2018 Equiniti  Financial Services sent a secure  message to Mr and Mrs J to say 
that a recommended  offer had been  received for shares that they held. Theres  no dispute 
that Mr and Mrs J received and read the secure message. The message asked Mr and Mrs J 
for their instructions. Mr J has said that the message  read:
If you want  to accept, please  notify us and we will accept on your behalf. If you would 
like to decline, please notify us no later than 5pm on 23.08.2018.
Ref: DRN07794432Id agree with Mr and Mrs J that Equiniti  Financial  Services would have had to hear back 
from them if thats what the message said. However, Ive seen a copy of the message and it 
said this:
RECOMMENDED TAKEOVER
 
Shareholders have the opportunity to accept a Recommended Takeover made by 
Volcan Investments Limited for Vedanta Resources Shares  at the Sterling equivalent  
of USD 10 89 per Share  held
 
As this is a recommended offer we will arrange  to accept it on your behalf
 
If you would  like to decline the offer please  notify us by secure message or telephone 
no later than 5pm on 23 August 2018
This message set out, in line with the terms and conditions,  what the default would be if 
Equiniti Financial Services didnt hear back, namely  that it would accept the offer as it was a 
recommended offer.  I dont think that was unfair  or unreasonable.
Equiniti Financial Services didnt hear back from Mr and Mrs J before 23 August and sold 
their shares. I accept that Mr J was unhappy  when he found out the shares  had been sold, 
but he had been given  over two weeks to reply  and did read the message on 8 August. All 
he had to do if he didnt  want the shares  to be sold was to message Equiniti Financial 
Services back. So I dont  think it would be fair to uphold  this complaint even though I 
appreciate that this will disappoint  Mr and Mrs J.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0779443