K822xcomplaint
Ms K complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc blocked  her account after she tried to transfer  
money online. And shes unhappy with the service she received afterwards.
background 
On 6 October 2018 Ms K transferred  £10,000  from her HSBC saving account to her HSBC 
current account. The following day she attempted to make  an online faster payment to 
transfer that money out of her current account  to an account she holds with another bank. 
Miss K said she intended to transfer the funds in question to a high interest account.
This transfer  was highlighted by HSBCs  fraud prevention system and it was held back for 
additional checks. HSBC said its fraud department  attempted to contact  Ms K to ascertain 
whether the payment was genuine. But it said it wasnt  able to confirm the authenticity of this 
payment because it couldnt speak with Ms K. So, it wrote to her the same  day to inform  her 
that it had blocked the payment she had tried to make.  HSBC  didnt hear from Ms K and 
because it remained concerned the transfer  was fraudulent  it reversed the payment and 
locked her account.
On 8 October Ms K realised her account had been locked so she attended her branch. 
Whilst there branch  staff contacted  HSBCs  Fraud Response Team who asked if Ms K had 
been identified.  Ms K didnt have identification documents  with her. But staff explained that 
she had completed  a signature check and answered some identification questions. The 
fraud department felt it required  additional  identification from Ms K. So, she was asked 
additional security  questions, which she declined  to answer. In view of this HSBC told Ms K 
it wouldnt be able to unlock her account  until she successfully identified  herself.  
When Ms K tried to complain about  what had happened she said she encountered various 
difficulties in lodging  a complaint. And when  HSBC investigated, it recognised  that it could 
have dealt with the transaction and Ms Ks complaint better. So, it credited Ms Ks account 
with a goodwill  gesture payment of £100.  But, Mrs K didnt think this payment adequately 
reflected the inconvenience and distress she had been caused. She also felt the blocking of 
her account  was disproportionate.  So, she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator looked into this and empathised with Ms K. But they didnt think  HSBC  had 
made an error in blocking her transaction or account. And they thought the £100 payment it 
had credited to Ms Ks account fairly  recognised that it could have handled her complaint 
better. But Ms K didnt  accept our adjudicators view. So, her complaint  has been referred to 
me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Ks complaint is about  HSBC holding  back  an online payment she was trying  
to make from her current account and the way in which she was dealt  with afterwards. She 
feels HSBCs  decision to block her account was disproportionate. And she says shes  been 
caused distress and inconvenience by the actions HSBC took here. My role here is to 
determine whether  HSBC  made an error and whether its treated Ms K fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN06741092Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Ms K experienced  when she attempted  to transfer 
money out of her account and I can appreciate that she was inconvenienced when that 
payment was blocked.  But banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard  
customer accounts from potentially fraudulent  transactions.  Preventing  fraud  is as important 
for the bank as it is for its customers. To do so a bank may require  customers to complete its 
security procedures. 
Banks have to be satisfied that a payment instruction is genuine  and when a bank  suspects 
a transaction may be fraudulent it must  exercise vigilance. HSBC says that when  a payment 
is highlighted by its fraud prevention system  its held back for additional checks so it can try 
to confirm that the payment is authentic and that its been authorised  by the account  holder. 
It explained that, in these  circumstances,  it will attempt to contact the account  holder to 
enable it to complete  the necessary identification  checks to allow the payment to be 
released. This is a reasonable procedure  for HSBC  to have in place in such situations.
Here, HSBC had concerns that Ms Ks account  was potentially being  used fraudulently.  The 
transfer was for a significant amount. And when HSBC couldnt reach Ms K by telephone it 
wasnt able to confirm  the authenticity of the transaction. Im satisfied the security  checks 
HSBC had wanted to make  here were part of HSBCs strategy to reduce fraud and that they 
were made correctly. 
I also think that in the absence  of Ms Ks instructions that the transfer was genuine HSBC 
acted reasonably in reversing  the payment. It had reason to suspect that someone  may have 
accessed Ms Ks account online without her permission. So I think  that blocking  her account 
in those circumstances was proportionate  and reasonable.  This was a precautionary 
measure and was just as much  for Ms Ks protection as it was for HSBCs. I believe HSBC  
were simply trying  to protect  Ms Ks account from potential fraud. And Im satisfied  HSBC  
acted in good faith and in line with its fraud prevention procedure. 
Ive also considered whether HSBC acted in line with the terms and conditions of Ms Ks 
account. These terms allow HSBC to block payments due to security concerns or the 
suspected fraudulent activity. And they also allow a payment to be stopped if a customer  
hasnt provided  any extra identification or information of the payment that its reasonable 
requested. Here HSBC  stopped the transaction because  it reasonably  suspected that it was 
fraudulent and without Ms Ks permission. And it wasnt able to confirm the authenticity  of 
the transaction with Ms K. So Im satisfied it acted  in line with the account terms. 
Part of Ms Ks complaint  is about how HSBC acted after it blocked  her account and the 
payment she tried to make. So, with this in mind Ive thought about whether HSBC  took 
reasonable steps to contact Ms K to inform  her about its concerns regarding  the authenticity 
of the transaction in question. 
HSBC attempted  to contact Ms K to confirm the authenticity of the transaction on the day 
she attempted to make  the transfer. Unfortunately, Ms K didnt answer  HSBCs phone  call. 
She said she didnt  recognise the telephone  number  that was displayed on her phone when 
it called  her and this is the reason  she didnt  answer  her phone.  I can understand why Ms K 
may choose not to answer  calls from unknown numbers. But it wouldnt be fair for me to hold 
HSBC responsible for the fact that she didnt answer its call to her.
Ms K feels HSBC shouldve  phoned her more than once.  But Im not persuaded she 
wouldve answered further calls from HSBC  especially if it had contacted  her again from a 
telephone number she didnt recognise.  HSBC sent Ms K a letter the same  day explaining its 
Ref: DRN06741093decision to stop her online transfer.  And, while Ms K said she didnt receive that letter  until 
10 October 2018, I think HSBC made reasonable efforts to promptly  notify Ms K that it had 
held her payment  back and blocked her account  in the interests  of fraud  prevention checks.
Ive also considered how Ms K was treated in branch on 8 October  2018  because its clear 
that she is unhappy with how she was dealt  with by staff there.  When  Ms K attended her 
branch she wanted  to know  why her account  had been blocked. So, staff there contacted  
HSBCs fraud team  in efforts to provide  this information to Ms K. 
On doing so, the fraud team explained why Ms Ks transaction and account  had been 
blocked and asked if branch staff had identified her. I understand that staff explained that Ms 
K had completed a signature check and that she had answered  some identification 
questions. The fraud department told staff that they would usually request photographic 
identification in these circumstances but if branch  staff were satisfied that Ms K had been 
successfully identified they could unblock her account and proceed to make  the payment Ms 
K had wanted to make. Branch staff said they werent willing to do this so the fraud team 
asked to speak  with Ms K to ask her additional  security questions.  But Ms K declined to 
answer any additional questions. In view of this her account remained  blocked.
Its clear that Ms K thinks that answering  security questions correctly  in branch and her 
signature check shouldve  been  sufficient to prove  her identity. But HSBC  says if its 
concerned that a customers account  has been  taken over by a fraudster, as it thought here, 
it will always  ask for photographic identification as manual questions  can be obtained  by a 
fraudster, which will allow them to clear security. It also explained that, in the absence of 
photographic identification, the branch could tell the fraud department they were satisfied 
that the person in branch was the customer. 
But HSBC  said staff didnt  feel able to vouch that the person in branch was Ms K because 
they didnt know  her, she had no direct debits set up on her account, her security was locked 
and the signature  she had provided  didn't 100% match what  it had on its system. Taking all 
of that into account  I think it was reasonable for staff to feel unable  to tell the fraud 
department they were  satisfied that the person in branch was Miss K. In such  circumstances 
I also think it was reasonable for HSBC to ask Ms K to answer additional security checks. 
And Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly in requesting that additional information from her.
Ms K wasnt able to prove who she was when she attended her branch on 8 October 2018. 
And Im persuaded that HSBC acted reasonably in maintaining the block  on her account in 
those circumstances.  It wrote to Ms K on 17 October 2018 explaining that it still needed to 
satisfy itself that the payment was a genuine transaction and that it required her to pass the 
necessary security checks to unlock  her account. I think this was reasonable given the 
circumstances that led to Ms Ks account being locked. 
Ms K says she spent  a lot of time in branch trying to resolve what happened  and she 
encountered difficulties  when she tried to raise  a complaint. HSBC  accepts it couldve dealt 
with the transaction and Ms Ks complaint better and to recognise  this it paid her £100  by 
way of compensation. Its clear that Ms K doesnt think this adequately reflects her 
inconvenience and experience. And shes referred  our service to a previous award she 
received in 2016 for the same amount. But, while Ms K may have received compensation in 
2016, I have to consider what happened  here. And for that reason I cant comment  on the 
circumstances of a previous complaint  or payment she may have received. 
Ref: DRN06741094I appreciate that Ms K was caused a great deal of inconvenience and stress  when HSBC 
blocked her transaction and account. But Ive already explained why I dont think  it made  an 
error in taking that action. Like our adjudicator though I do feel HSBC  couldve dealt  with 
Miss Ks complaint better. And I think the £100 its already paid is fair to recognise that 
experience.
Miss K says shes lost out financially as a result  of her account being blocked.  She says she 
lost interest while  her account was suspended because the funds she had wanted to transfer 
out remained in her current account.  But I can see that HSBC credited Ms Ks account with 
£10 to recognise the loss of interest  she incurred. 
Ms K estimates her loss of interest  to be at least £180. And I appreciate that Ms Ks account  
has been blocked for some time. But this is due to her not attending a branch when 
requested with the identification documents HSBC asked her to provide. Had she done so 
she could have transferred her money  to a higher interest account. And with this in mind Im 
persuaded that £10 is a reasonable gesture of goodwill  on HSBCs part.
I appreciate that Ms K feels very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything shes said. But I think  HSBC has done enough to resolve this 
dispute. And I think the compensation already  paid and offered is a reasonable amount  to 
reflect what  happened.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint beyond the £100 HSBC  UK Bank Plc 
has already paid Ms K. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0674109