K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about the way in which Lloyds Bank General  Insurance 
Limited has handled their subsidence claim under their buildings insurance policy.
background 
In 2003, Mr and Mrs J made a subsidence  claim.  Lloyds accepted  the claim, carried out 
lengthy investigations and eventually carried out underpinning to the front of the property 
which resolved the problem  in that area. A piling scheme was carried out to the rear of the 
property but Mr and Mrs J reported further movement to their kitchen extension, which  is 
located in this area.
Lloyds contractor (who  Ill call Z) thought that a movement joint should be installed.  Mr and 
Mrs J disagreed with this proposal. They  disputed that a movement joint would be effective 
and furthermore considered that it wouldnt be allowed to be installed because they lived in a 
conservation area. They brought  their complaint to us.
In 2015, the ombudsman issued a final decision not upholding their complaint. She thought 
the available  evidence supported that a movement  joint would be a valid repair. She said Mr 
and Mrs J hadnt provided evidence to show a movement  joint wouldnt be allowed to be 
installed in their property.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs J asked Lloyds for further  details of the proposed movement joint repair. 
They then obtained  a report from their own structural  engineer who concluded  that the 
proposed repair may not be effective and that further substructure works should  instead be 
undertaken. They presented their engineers report to Lloyds.
Lloyds wasnt persuaded by the report. It was satisfied its proposed course of action was 
appropriate.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy  at Lloyds response. They referred  their complaint to us. They 
also complained  that Lloyds  hadnt provided  a Certificate of Structural  Adequacy for the 
works which had so far been undertaken.
While the complaint was under investigation, Z conducted a further technical review  of the 
claim. It concluded that, due to the alteration to the appearance of the building,  it would be 
difficult if not impossible to obtain  the relevant approval for a movement joint.  It therefore 
drew up an alternative repair plan which wouldnt need planning permission and which 
involved the use of helical  bars and bat straps.
Mr and Mrs J said the revised repair plan had insufficient detail for them  to accept it.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. My findings were  as follows:
The ombudsman in 2015 made her final decision on the basis  of the evidence which was 
available to her at the time. She concluded that a movement joint would be a valid repair.
While Z, on behalf of Lloyds, hasnt changed  its mind about a movement  joint being 
effective, it has now accepted that it is not a practical solution due to the difficulty  in 
obtaining the necessary permission. It has therefore  come up with an alternative solution.
Ref: DRN08081892Z has explained that the continued  movement in the property is very minor  and concentrated 
at a high level.  It believes  it is unlikely the piled  foundations have moved.  It therefore  
considers that re-piling is unlikely to prevent the continuation of this minor  movement and 
that the associated costs  and disruption  would be disproportionate to the small cracking 
which has occurred. Instead, it proposes  to reinforce the walls  at high level using helical bars 
and bat straps.  While  it says its proposed  repair cant guarantee to prevent future  movement, 
it considers it is the best way to reduce the risk of future damage.
Mr and Mrs J disagree.  They stand by the earlier view of their engineer who concluded that 
the most  appropriate  step to eliminate  movement would be to carry out a new scheme of 
mass concrete underpinning to the side off-shoot and link it to the foundations of the main 
part of the house. However,  their engineer admitted that he didnt know what  the precise  
cause of the ongoing movement might be and didnt go so far as to say other methods of 
repair, such as a movement joint, wouldnt work;  he simply said they werent guaranteed to 
work.
Overall, I consider that Lloyds proposed repair is reasonable. I dont think  Mr and Mrs J 
have shown that, at this stage, further underpinning is the only viable repair.
Mr and Mrs J have said they cant accept  the revised proposal until they have  further details. 
They have said they need to see a full schedule of work, and furthermore want  to know who 
is to carry out the work, when it will start and finish, whether  they will be required to vacate 
the property and, if so, how they will be allowed access to such  things as kitchen facilities.  
However, I think the information they have already been given is enough for them to have 
commented on, or sought expert advice on had they wished. I dont think  Lloyds should  have 
to provide them with a full schedule of work and it is only once Mr and Mrs J have  agreed  in 
principle to the type of repair that I would  expect Lloyds to sort out the further details. If Mr 
and Mrs J agreed to Lloyds carrying out the repair but then found that it was failing in the 
execution of this repair, this is something  which  they could  raise  as a further complaint with 
Lloyds and, if necessary,  with us. 
Lloyds has further  explained that a Certificate of Structural Adequacy  cant  yet be issued 
because the work to fully stabilise the property is still not completed.  I find Lloyds 
explanation to be reasonable and I dont consider this to be an admission  that the work so 
far carried out has been of inadequate quality.
However, while I am satisfied that Lloyds has now proposed a satisfactory way to take 
forward this longstanding claim, it has only done  so after acknowledging that its previous 
proposal of a movement  joint repair wasnt practical. It reached this decision in September 
2018, which was over four years after Mr and Mrs J had first raised  this concern. And Lloyds  
then took a further four months before it decided what it should do instead. There  was then a 
further delay of over six weeks before it sent details of the new proposal to Mr and Mrs J.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs Js concerns over the movement joint were about its efficacy as 
well as whether it would be granted the necessary  permission. They believed, and 
apparently still believe,  that underpinning is the only viable solution  to the ongoing  
movement at their property, which is why the claim is at the current stage of impasse. 
Nonetheless, if Lloyds  been quicker  in accepting the movement joint proposal was 
impractical, and had shown more urgency in developing and communicating  its alternative  
repair plan, Mr and Mrs J would have reached  this stage far earlier than now. Lloyds, 
through its poor handling, has therefore  considerably prolonged what was already a very old 
Ref: DRN08081893claim. This will have caused  Mr and Mrs J some degree of distress  and inconvenience for 
which I think Lloyds should pay them  £1,000 compensation.
I invited both parties to make any further  submissions in response to my provisional 
decision.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept my provisional decision. I summarise  their response below:
The decision doesnt contain full, accurate details of the history of the claim and the 
various agents acting  on behalf  of Lloyds;
The property is still subject to movement, even if this is minor, and it is Lloyds 
responsibility to eliminate this;
It was not only their own engineer but also an engineer  acting on behalf of Lloyds 
who concluded that the piling  so far carried  out had been  inadequate and that further  
underpinning should be done;
The proposed  repair is not structural and therefore shouldnt prevent  a Certificate of 
Structural Adequacy  being issued for the work which has so far been undertaken;
Until a Certificate of Structural  Adequacy is received, they are forced to insure 
through Lloyds  even  though the premium is uncompetitive;
They have not said they cant accept the repair proposal without further details but 
have merely requested  reasonable  further  information to avoid any 
misunderstanding;
Lloyds should  now press on with this repair and be required to complete it and issue 
a Certificate of Structural Adequacy within  a specified time limit; and
Lloyds failings have  meant this claim  has dragged on for over nine years and the 
proposed compensation is inadequate to reflect  the distress  and inconvenience they 
have suffered during that time.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mrs Js further comments dont 
persuade me to change my provisional  decision. I shall explain why.
Mr and Mrs J have provided  a fuller explanation of the background to the claim, which was 
helpful. However, the background  section is only intended to be a brief summary  of how the 
present complaint arose  and wont necessarily  reflect every detail. Some  of the points  made 
by Mr and Mrs J appear to dispute  the findings  of the ombudsman  in 2015  but this was a 
final decision  and so cannot now be challenged.  Mr and Mrs J have pointed  out that on 
occasions I have  attributed  actions to Lloyds/Z  whereas they should  have been attributed to 
other parties. I accept  this might be the case but I dont think it is materially important 
because ultimately  Lloyds is responsible for the actions of all those who are acting as its 
agents.
Ref: DRN08081894I agree  that Lloyds  has an obligation  to repair the subsidence damage in such a way that the 
repairs are lasting. I believe Lloyds  itself accepts this. The issue  is how this should  be done.
In March 2017, a structural engineer acting on behalf of Lloyds  visited  the property. His 
report said the piling so far undertaken needed to be reviewed because,  on the face of it, it 
wasnt sufficiently robust.  However, in April 2017,  the structural  engineers  firm wrote to Mr J 
confirming that, after review, the regional  engineering manager had concluded the piling was 
appropriate and sound, and that a movement joint was the best way of addressing the 
ongoing problem.  Im therefore satisfied  that it was only Mr and Mrs Js engineer who 
advocated further underpinning.
Lloyds has confirmed that a Certificate of Structural Adequacy cant be issued until the work 
to fully stabilise  the property is completed.  While  I note Mr and Mrs Js comments about  the 
nature of the outstanding  work, I nonetheless find Lloyds explanation reasonable. I 
recognise they find it frustrating that they must still insure through  Lloyds while the claim is 
ongoing but I have no reasonable grounds for telling  Lloyds that it must reduce their 
premiums. 
I understood that Mr and Mrs J wouldnt agree to the revised repair  proposal  until they had 
further details.  They  now appear to be saying  this is not the case and they would like the 
work to be done  as soon as possible. If this is the case, then I agree with them that Lloyds 
should now go ahead and do the work. I consider that Lloyds should keep them  reasonably 
informed of what work it is carrying out, though  Mr and Mrs J should be aware  that if they 
challenge this or dont  provide permissions  when they are required, it will inevitably hold 
things up. I dont intend in this decision to specify time limits  for this work, or for the issuing 
of a Certificate of Structural Adequacy. However, assuming that Mr and Mrs J are 
cooperative, I would expect Lloyds and its contractors to deal with this as a matter of some  
priority given the length of time this claim has been  going on.
Mr and Mrs J consider  that compensation of £1,000 is inadequate considering what they 
have been through in the past nine years. I sympathise with them for having to endure such  
a long-running  claim but should  point  out that my award was only in respect of failings by 
Lloyds since the time of the previous ombudsmans decision in 2015.  Furthermore,  I took 
into account that Mr and Mr J were themselves responsible for some of the delay in that 
apparently it wasnt until late 2016  that they became willing to allow  Lloyds to attempt to 
install the movement  joint. I therefore remain satisfied that the award is appropriate.
Just to confirm what I said in my provisional  decision, if Mr and Mrs J were to accept my 
decision but Lloyds  and its contractors fail to execute the revised repair  project in a timely 
and effective way, this is something  which  they could raise as a further complaint with Lloyds 
and, if necessary, with us. I sincerely  hope,  however, that if they were  to accept the decision,  
it would  mean this long-running claim would at last move forwards  towards closure.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs J £1,000  compensation 
Ref: DRN08081895Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0808189