K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a re-mortgage application Mrs and Mr G made through  a broker  
working for PFS (IFA)  Limited. Theyre unhappy  about the amount of time the broker took to 
deal with the application, which was eventually unsuccessful. Mrs and Mr G say the delays 
cost them  close to £12,000 in additional mortgage interest and other  expenses.
background 
Mrs and Mr G already  had a mortgage,  with a lender Ill call L; their rate product was due to 
expire at the end of November 2016, and they wanted a new deal. But they also wanted to 
borrow more money  as well, and L wasnt willing to lend it. They  approached PFSs  broker, 
Mr D, in August 2016. After obtaining  information  from Mr Gs accountant and a valuation  of 
the property, Mr D submitted a re-mortgage application to lender B in late October 2016; this 
was declined. Mr D spent  November 2016  trying to appeal  Bs refusal,  but by mid-December  
it was evident  Bs decision would stand.  
Mr D now looked to place  the new mortgage with a different lender, K. An application was 
put in to K on 2 January 2017. K wanted  new information from Mr Gs accountant, but it 
seems this wasnt immediately forthcoming,  and in February 2017,  K cancelled the 
application. But it said it could reinstate  the application if the necessary information could be 
provided; this happened  towards  the end of March 2017. In May 2017, after having received 
and assessed  Mr Gs full accounts for 2016, K declined the application.
Mrs and Mr G ended up keeping their mortgage with L, switching it to a new rate and 
borrowing the extra money they wanted elsewhere.  However, they paid a substantial amount 
of extra  interest on the mortgage after the expiry  of the old rate whilst they were waiting for 
the outcome of the re-mortgage application. This has caused them  considerable financial  
hardship, and they hold PFS to blame for the delays. Theyre  seeking  compensation of 
almost £12,000.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to uphold the complaint. He noted  the gap between  
Mrs and Mr G contacting  Mr D in August 2016 and the first application  going  into B in 
October 2016. But he also thought Mr D did the right thing in trying to get B to change its 
mind. The adjudicator wasnt persuaded Mr G was to blame for the time it took K to reach a 
decision on the second application.  He also observed that Mr D had kept Mrs and Mr G 
aware of what he was doing,  and reminded them they always had the option of looking for 
alternative solutions.
PFS had offered  Mrs and Mr G £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience; the 
adjudicator though this should be increased  to £450  and PFS agreed  to pay the extra. 
Mrs and Mr G werent happy and asked that their complaint be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain  at the outset that I dont intend to go into the details of each and every incident  in 
this complaint. Ours is an informal  dispute resolution service, our rules allow me to 
concentrate on what I consider to be the main  issues in the complaint. 
Ref: DRN04510782So if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. Rather  than get bogged down in 
minutiae, Ive taken  a step back here and looked at the broader picture.
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues in order to decide what I think is fair and reasonable. Having done so, I 
dont think the evidence is persuasive to enable me to conclude  that PFS is at fault to the 
extent claimed by Mrs and Mr G, or indeed  at all.
This complaint isnt about the lenders to which the mortgage applications  were  made,  but 
against the broker that submitted them; nonetheless, some of the information  weve  obtained 
during our investigation  has come from the lenders. Were allowed to do that; when 
consumers bring a complaint to us, they authorise us to make  relevant enquiries of third 
parties if we consider it necessary.
Its important to remember here that Mr Ds role wasnt  just to give advice; it was also to act 
on his clients instructions. If Mrs and Mr G had simply wanted  a new rate, that could have 
been achieved  with L to run seamlessly from the date the old one ran out. But 
Mrs and Mr Gs instructions  throughout were for Mr D to find them a lender willing to lend 
them more  money,  and that wasnt  quite  so straightforward because  of Mr Gs self-employed  
status. Im satisfied Mrs and Mr G knew that, and so all the time their instructions  to Mr D 
remained unchanged, its because theyd placed a higher priority on raising additional 
mortgage lending  than on getting  a new rate.
I agree  that the first application to B could have started sooner, but even if it had, all that 
would have meant is that it would in all probability have been concluded sooner, and the 
second application to K would have begun sooner. But what I cant say with any confidence  
is that the application to K would  have ended earlier. Thats  because the timing  of Ks 
decision not to lend was largely dependent on when it received all the information it needed 
from Mr Gs accountant in order to complete its underwriting assessment. Thats not 
something that Mr D could control.
I appreciate Mrs and Mr G may be disappointed  with the lack of detail  in my findings, but I 
dont represent  them and am not required to answer  their questions if I dont consider it 
necessary to do so. Theyve said they wanted  a precise and exact  timeline of events as and 
when they happened.  Im afraid that was something for them to produce,  and submit  in 
support of their case. Its not our job to do that for them.  
My role is to assess the case  on the basis of the evidence  from both sides, taking an 
overview of events, and deciding  what is fair in the round. Overall, I consider the 
adjudicators assessment  of fair redress   that is, an increase in compensation from £250 to 
£450  to be reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct  PFS (IFA) Limited  to 
pay Mrs and Mr G £450. I make no other  order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Jeff Parrington
Ref: DRN04510783ombudsman
Ref: DRN0451078