K822xsummary of complaint
Mr J complains about the incorrect book cost valuation  Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  
applied to an Investment  Trust  he held in within his pension plan. He says this could have 
affected his ability to make accurate investment decisions about his plan. Hes also 
complained about Barclays  decision not to make him aware of the problem when it was 
discovered a few months earlier.
background to complaint
Mr J holds a pension plan with Barclays on its smart investor  platform. He manages  his own 
investments within  the plan  one of which is an investment trust.
On 5 October 2018 Mr J discovered that the latest book cost valuation  of the investment trust 
was showing a loss in excess of 20% from the original purchase price. He considered  selling 
the investment  but remembered that he held another trading account  which  also held the 
same investment and was purchased  at a similar time. Mr J discovered the other  account  
showed a gain rather than a loss for that trust.   
So Mr J raised the matter with Barclays, who acknowledged that there was an error on the 
platform around the book  costs  of this particular trust. The issue followed a stock split 
where new shares were  created from existing  shares but it seems after the split the 
calculation of the stock  for some customers  wasnt correct.  Barclays  said it wasnt  able to 
say when the problem might  be fixed  but was trying  to resolve the matter as soon as 
possible. It said it hadnt contacted Mr J about  the matter previously  because  only a small 
number of customers had been affected and it decided to deal with each case individually. It 
offered Mr J £150 for any inconvenience the problem  had caused  him.
 
Mr J expressed  his concerns about  the decision made by Barclays and said therefore  that he 
couldnt maintain  confidence in the valuation  of the assets within  his portfolio. He remained 
unhappy with Barclays explanation and so brought his complaint to us. One of adjudicators  
reviewed the case and said that, as Mr J actively  managed his own investments, he would 
have relied on accurate  valuations and information about those investments within his 
portfolio. So he thought  Barclays  hadnt  acted fairly by reporting such an inaccurate  book  
price of this particular investment trust.
But he thought  that Barclays offer of £150 for the inconvenience this inaccuracy caused was 
fair and reasonable in this case.  He also said that Barclays wasnt obliged to have  kept Mr J 
informed of this problem and thought this was a business decision for Barclays to make.  
Mr J said that Barclays  decision not to share the information it was aware  of regarding the 
pricing error  was negligent. He didnt think it was fair for us to conclude that self-managed 
plans needed  accurate  information on which to base investment decisions,  but that Barclays 
shouldnt be required to ensure such information was made  available  to investors. 
He asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman so its been passed  to me for a 
review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators assessment  and for broadly the same reasons. I realise thats  not an outcome 
Ref: DRN08047842Mr J wanted  and I have some sympathy for his frustration here. But I think Barclays  offer 
of compensation  is fair in the circumstances, so Ill explain why.
The incorrect valuation
Theres no dispute that Barclays did provide significantly inaccurate book cost valuations for 
an investment trust Mr J held within his pension plan. When  Mr J contacted  Barclays  to 
query the valuation  it accepted there had been  an error for some  time following the splitting  
of existing shares into new ones. So my consideration needs to be whether Barclays offer of 
compensation for the impact  that had on Mr J is fair and reasonable.
Mr J says that as he manages the portfolio within the pension plan himself  he needs all the 
information within it to be accurate.  This includes correct and up to date valuations. And Mr J 
also said that  as a result  of discovering the significant drop in value, he nearly sold the 
investment. He says therefore that his investment decisions can be influenced by inaccurate  
information.
Barclays says that the incorrect information was around the book cost of the investment 
trust, which it says isnt the same as the valuation of an asset. It says the book cost should 
be seen as a guide figure only and shouldnt be relied upon when making investment 
choices. It says its customers  may choose to interpret book cost information in a variety of 
ways but its only provided by Barclays  as a guideline figure. That said its clear that the book 
cost was displayed  incorrectly  for this asset following the share  split. And while  I understand 
Barclays point here,  this was information available to Mr J to use when making investment 
decisions and I think it would been  one of the factors which might have affected his strategy.
I can understand Mr Js problem here as one of the main factors in deciding  what  assets to 
buy and sell would most likely be the ongoing value  of the asset. I can see how he might 
decide to sell an investment that had apparently lost some considerable value. So I do think 
this inaccuracy had some  impact on Mr J and would have caused him to consider his 
investment strategy. Fortunately Mr J learnt from another trading account that this 
investment hadnt  fallen  in value so he was able to ensure his trading  decisions werent  
adversely affected.
But Mr J didnt sell the investment and potentially lose money, and he hasnt provided any 
evidence to show other investment decisions that were affected by the information. Barclays  
has acknowledged that Mr J suffered some distress and inconvenience over this matter for a 
period of some months until it was eventually fixed in May 2019, and offered Mr J £150. I 
think thats a reasonable offer for the level of distress Mr J suffered. He was made  aware 
shortly after he discovered  the error that there was a problem and would  have understood 
the value of that one investment to be incorrect so there was no reason why he couldnt 
make further  investment  choices at that point. In my view £150  is an appropriate level of 
compensation for the impact  this had on Mr J.
Should Mr J have been informed of the problem when Barclays  was aware?
Mr J says Barclays knew about  this problem around six months  before  he was made aware. 
He says to not make  him aware  especially as he manages his portfolio  was negligent. 
And Mr J says we agreed that an investor like him needs accurate information about his 
investments to be available at all times. So he wants us to tell Barclays to change its 
company policy  of not informing customers when it has such  problems. 
Ref: DRN08047843But our role isnt to punish a business or to dictate company  policy. And in Mr Js complaint I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  Barclays was obliged to make  customers aware of 
any such incidents or problems. 
Barclays has explained that, for the relatively small number of people  affected in this case, it 
would not have been viable to contact all the customers invested  on the platform. In my 
opinion this is not an unreasonable decision for Barclays  to have taken.  If it notified  all the 
investors potentially  involved then it would be contacting a much  larger  number of individuals 
than necessary and this could result in a significant  increase in workload with the possible 
delays that would involve in actually  resolving the situation. 
What I would have  expected here was for Barclays to make Mr J aware of exactly  what the 
problem was and what it proposed to do about  it, including any potential  impact on him. Im 
satisfied that Barclays  did that, although I note initially  it did suggest there werent any issues  
and it required Mr J to insist on speaking  to someone at Barclays who was aware  of the 
problem. I think Barclays could have  been quicker  to explain that to Mr J. 
But overall Im satisfied that Barclays wasnt obliged to make Mr J aware of the problem 
when it found  out and I think  it acted  reasonably   when Mr J contacted  it, in making  him 
aware of the issue with the book cost valuation of the investment trust. I think its offer of 
£150 for the inconvenience caused around the error  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered  to pay Mr J £150 to resolve this complaint.  I think thats a 
fair and reasonable offer in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should  pay £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0804784