K820x#14complaint 
Mr U complains that IG Markets Limited  decided  to withdraw Bitcoin  Gold  and Bitcoin SV 
from its trading platform despite the fact that both are still trading on various other platforms. 
This resulted in his positions  being  forcibly sold. 
background
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld as IG was entitled 
to make this commercial decision which it made clear in its terms and conditions.  As such, it 
was not for this service to seek to prescribe how it chose  to run its business.
He also felt IGs explanation as to why it had chosen  to do this was fair and reasonable, and 
reiterated its arguments. He also thought IGs explanation as to why it had started to permit  
trading on the crypto  10 index was not unreasonable or inconsistent  with its decision to 
withdrawn from Bitcoin trading.
He acknowledged  that IG had not handled the enforced sale procedure as well as it could 
have done but felt its offer of £350  to cover  any potential loss (plus  the resulting  trouble and 
upset) was fair and reasonable.
Mr U reiterated his earlier arguments, highlighting his view that:
Shortly after delisting the Bitcoin  currencies their value shot up relative to other 
cryptocurrencies. This suggests  that IG was aware of this happening  and had to 
delist the ones  with insufficient liquidity
This was unfair practice which penalised  investors like himself
Bitcoin SV was only listed for a few months; regardless of the terms and conditions  it 
is unethical to do this, luring in clients  and then forcing them  to sell these assets;  this 
is similar to a penny share scam
The two weeks notice  period alone  is suspicious
IG has started a crypto index space with Bitcoin SV as part of it and IG have come  up 
with excuses like "they couldn't continue offering the instrument  through a different 
exchange, because  it was not traded on any of their reputable exchanges  at the 
time" and "Using a third party  who benchmark  the index  for IG"
His key argument  is not about  its technical right to delist the currencies but its moral  
and ethical behaviour 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  Mr Us frustration with what occurred  and the undoubted  inconvenience 
this caused. But this in itself is not sufficient to fairly conclude that IG did something wrong. It 
was entitled to make the decision to stop allowing  Bitcoin trading on its platform,  and the risk 
of such an occurrence  is clearly spelt out in the terms  and conditions.
That said,  at this service  we also consider whether a business has behaved fairly and 
reasonably even where the terms and conditions  have not been breached. However,  in this 
case, I think IGs explanation for why it stopped listing these Bitcoins is reasonable. It 
provided an extensive explanation of the many  factors which led to it making  this decision  
Ref: DRN05108982including the difficulties in hedging and pricing in these two markets,  liquidity and security 
issues, and the absence of other reputable exchange markets.
I also think its explanation  for the short enforced sale deadline  was not unreasonable given 
the various factors involved,  and that the £350 offer reflected,  to some degree, Mr Us 
potential loss as a result of this.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to support Mr Us other concerns about  the underlying 
motivation behind IGs decision. The fact that IG supported the trading of these assets for a 
relatively short period  only was clearly  unfortunate for Mr U and probably other clients but I 
do not believe this was unfair  and unreasonable  or something it was not entitled to do. 
As I feel IGs offer of £350 was fair and reasonable, I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0510898