K821x#15complaint
Mr L is complaining that some doors  and windows  that were supplied  to him werent fitted 
correctly. He partly financed them through a fixed sum loan provided  by Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited   t/a Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). He brings the claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75). 
background 
In December 2018 Mr L entered into a contract  through a company I shall refer to as S to 
supply some windows  and doors. The total cost of the work  was £2,100. Mr L paid an initial 
upfront fee of £1,350  in cash  and arranged to pay the rest through a fixed  sum loan 
agreement through  BPF.
Mr L wasnt happy with the original fitting  of the windows.  So S returned to refit them. But 
Mr L remained unhappy with the work, although his partner signed a satisfaction note to 
confirm that S had satisfactorily installed the windows.  Following  this, BPF activated the 
finance agreement  and paid the remaining  £750  to S. Mr L is unhappy that BPF activated 
the finance without his signature on the satisfaction note. Mr L then contacted  BPF to make 
a S75 claim due to the quality of the installation. 
Following this, S returned to carry out a further inspection of the work.  And it said that it 
would need to replace the single skin barrel on both the front and rear windows. BPF 
advised S was willing  to carry  out the rectification  work.  But Mr L said that he didnt want  S to 
do anymore work on his property.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and thought that it was fair that Mr L had lost faith in 
Ss ability to resolve  this matter. So she thought that BPF should arrange  an independent 
inspection of the work carried out and provide a report outlining what  was needed to put 
things right. BPF agreed and arranged for another company (F) to carry  out an inspection.
F provided a report and said that overall, the products S supplied met industry standards and 
the installation  meets the codes of practice,  but with a few exceptions. And it set out what it 
thought would need to be resolved. The investigator  asked F how much it would cost to 
rectify these  issues and it said it would cost around  £4,000 plus VAT. BPF agreed to cover 
this cost.
The investigator thought that this was a fair resolution to the complaint. But Mr L thinks that 
BPF should cancel  the finance  agreement and refund everything hes paid towards the 
windows. He also thinks it should  pay him compensation  for the amount of time hes had to 
take off work to resolve  this matter and also for the distress and inconvenience its caused 
him.
I issued a provisional decision partially  upholding  this complaint. And I said the following:
Mr L is complaining about  the quality of the work that S did when supplying and fitting some 
doors and windows. Mr L partly paid for these services through  a fixed  sum loan agreement.  
S75 sets out that, as the finance provider, in certain circumstances BPF is jointly  liable for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply  here. 
Ref: DRN08209102Under the contact  with Mr L, S had agreed to supply  and install some windows and doors.  
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
contract that S had to supply windows and doors that were of satisfactory  quality and then fit 
them with reasonable care and skill. S was also required to fit them  within a reasonable time.
Ive paid particular  attention to the report carried out by F as I think  this is a fair and 
independent inspection of the work  S did. I dont think F highlighted anything  to show that 
the quality of the goods provided werent of a satisfactory quality, although it did highlight 
some scratches to some of the windows.  But it seems  to me that there were a lot of 
concerns about  the quality of the installation. Im satisfied this shows  the windows werent  
fitted with reasonable care and skill. And I dont think this is disputed.  For this reason I think 
its fair BPF should  put this right.  
The CRA sets out that, where  a service is found to be provided without reasonable care and 
skill, Mr L has the right to ask for it to be done  again. I can see that S initially offered to carry 
out the rectification work. But Mr L wasnt willing to allow S to do any further work, given it 
had already unsuccessfully tried to put things  right.  Ive looked at the photographs of the 
issues raised. And I can understand his reluctance to not want S to do any further work. So I 
agree that the fair way of resolving this matter is for BPF to arrange for a separate company 
to carry out the rectification work. BPF has agreed to pay for F to carry out the repairs  and I 
think this is a fair resolution  to Mr Ls S75 claim.
I should set out that F has said that some of the work needed to be done isnt down  to the 
actions of S. And it said Mr L will need  to have the radiator  disconnected, pipes re-routed 
and the radiator reinstalled once  the new inner  wall is in place. Its also said that the Intruder  
Alarm box and the satellite cables need  re-siting. I dont think  Mr L needs  to do this as a 
result of anything S did, but it seems to be something that he was always  going to need to 
do as a result of the work  that he was having done. So I dont  think BPF needs to cover this 
cost.
I note Mr L thinks BPF should cancel  the finance  agreement and refund everything hes paid. 
But Mr L has received  the doors and windows he contracted to receive.  So its right that he 
pays for this. And BPF is required to ensure theyre fitted correctly. If I did require BPF to 
refund everything  Mr L has paid and cancel the agreement, Id also have to say that BPF 
should remove of all the doors  and windows that had been installed as its fair that he has to 
pay something towards them. I think this wouldnt be a reasonable resolution in this case as 
its likely  to put Mr L in a worse position.
Mr L thinks BPF should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered in 
resolving this matter and for the time hes had to take off work.  I recognise Mr L is 
understandably unhappy with whats happened. And theres no doubt that this has been  
upsetting for him. But I think that this is largely down to the actions of S. I think BPF did 
quickly make  a reasonable alternative  offer to resolve the matter, even though S had offered 
to rectify the issues. So I dont think BPF needs to compensate Mr L in this respect.
I think BPF has handled Mr Ls S75 claim fairly.  Once he made the claim, I can see that it 
made enquiries with S about what had happened. Ive also noted that it agreed to arrange 
for a third-party company  to carry out the rectification works without any dispute when it was 
explained Mr L wasnt willing to allow  S to carry out any further  works. Ultimately,  Im 
satisfied that it has looked  to resolve  Mr Ls S75 claim in a fair and reasonable way. And I 
dont think its treated him unfairly.
Ref: DRN08209103Ive taken Mr Ls comments into account  that he doesnt think BPF should have activated the 
finance agreement  when it did. But I dont agree. The terms of his contract with BPF sets out 
that it will pay the loan amount  to S when  you [Mr L] have received the goods or services 
purchased. While I acknowledge Mr L was unhappy  with the quality of the installation, he 
had received the doors and windows.  And there wasnt anything  in the contract  with BPF 
that sets out the finance agreement will only be activated when he signed a certificate of 
satisfaction. So I cant say that BPF acted unfairly in this respect.
However, I note Mr L has queried  who will provide the guarantee that S provided  under the 
terms of the contract. Mr Ls contract  with S sets out that S will guarantee to repair or 
replace any faulty  products (in materials or workmanship) within 10 years  of installing them. 
So S is still contractually required to provide the guarantee and will do so even if Mr L sells 
the house. But, given whats happened  before,  I think its fair that Mr L doesnt want S to 
provide the guarantee  any further. So I think BPF should  honour the guarantee for the time 
Mr L continues to own the house.
Finally I note Mr L wants S to revoke the FENSA certificate. But I dont think  thats  something  
I can require BPF to do. Under the contract, S was required to issue  a FENSA certificate, 
which it has done. So I dont think S has breached the terms of the contract with Mr L in this 
matter.
BPF responded to accept my provisional  decision and it highlighted that BPF would be liable 
for the goods  under S75 for the length of the warranty  anyway.
Mr L said that, if S had fitted the window  with care and not damaged the wall under  the 
windows, the radiator, alarm box and satellite cables would have not been  touched.  But, due 
to the damage  caused by S, he said all this has to be removed to repair the damage caused. 
And he thinks its unfair that hes out of pocket  as a result of this. 
Mr L also said that. when  the building work starts, the wall has to be removed under the 
bedroom window  and a new wall built which he says is due to S not taking reasonable care 
and skill to fit the window. And he thinks BPF should contribute towards this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Ls comments into account,  but Ive come to the same conclusion  as I did in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN08209104I note Mr L thinks its unfair he has to pay to relocate the radiator, alarm box and satellite  
cables. In considering  this, Ive reviewed the independent report  and I note this says:
A number of adjacent  properties are suffering from the same type of issue, the initial  design  
of cantilevering this type of bay on the upper  floor with floor joists  running from side to side,  
makes the apron joints vulnerable.
So it seems  to me that Mr L needs  to carry out this work due to the way the property was 
built, not due to anything S did. So I dont think BPF is liable for this cost under S75.
Neither party has raised any further  comments  in respect to what  I set out in my provisional  
decision. So I uphold  this complaint for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.  And I require Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited  to arrange  for the repairs that F set out need to be done to rectify 
the work  that S did. This doesnt include the cost of relocating the radiator and alarm box. It 
should also honour the guarantee  S was providing  for the time Mr L continues to own the 
house.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0820910