K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that NewDay Ltd mismanaged her Aqua credit  card account after a 
payment break. 
background
Miss G has an Aqua  credit  card,  issued  by NewDay. Due to a temporary change in her 
circumstances, she agreed  a payment break  for two months, ending at the end of November 
2018. During that time, she would not have to make  monthly payments to the card account, 
and interest and charges would be suspended. 
When the payment  break came to an end, NewDay added just over £450 to Miss Gs 
account. That represented the interest that would have  accrued, but for the payment break. 
The effect of adding that sum to the account  was that Miss G had exceeded her credit  limit 
and the minimum payments due (which include any unpaid interest and interest accrued in 
the previous month)  increased significantly.
NewDay acknowledged that this was an error and said that it would be corrected  and any 
necessary adjustments made to the account.  That didnt happen, however, until February 
2019. In the meantime, Miss G had referred  a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. He satisfied  himself  that NewDay  
had by then made the necessary adjustments to Miss Gs account  (including adjusting the 
minimum payments due, so they showed  what would have been payable had the extra  £450  
not been added); and NewDay had also credited a further £100  to the account in recognition 
of the errors it had made.
Our investigator considered that NewDay  had done  enough to resolve  matters  and that it 
didnt need to do any more. Miss G didnt accept that, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case  as the final stage in our consideration of it. She said that 
NewDay had advised her that she didnt  need  to make any payments while  this service was 
considering the complaint, and that this had caused  further problems  because it later said 
she did. After all, have  to make payments.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons.
There is no dispute that NewDay made  a mistake when it added accrued interest at the end 
of Miss Gs payment break. And it should then have  corrected  its error more promptly  than it 
did. I agree  with the investigator, however, that it has now done that and made necessary 
adjustments to the account. 
Miss G has suggested that NewDay told her she wouldnt need to make  any payments until 
her complaint had been resolved. That isnt however reflected in NewDays  records.  Had 
such an agreement been made, I would expect  it to have been  confirmed in writing. Further, 
there was never any dispute that Miss G owed money to NewDay,  and shed expected to 
resume payments once the payment  break came to an end. This was not a case where, for 
example, there was a dispute over the main  part of the debt. 
Ref: DRN02995282I understand of course that not making payments  will have placed Miss G in a worse 
position. I dont  believe however that this is the fault of NewDay.  It has adjusted  the account  
so that it reflects  the position  as it would have been if it hadnt made an error in the first 
place. That,  together  with the payment of £100  is sufficient  in my view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require NewDay Ltd to do anything further to resolve  Miss Gs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0299528