K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs H. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs H was sold the policy at the same  time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs H has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  I will 
explain why.
The form, which Mrs H filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice,  which you 
make by ticking a box. So I think Mrs H would have understood she had a genuine  choice 
about taking the PPI.
It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Hs 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs H to decide  whether it was suitable.
However FICL did need to give Mrs H clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs H. So Ive thought about  whether  better information  is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information,  I dont think its likely  to have made a difference to her decision.  I say 
this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have  paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. Also its not clear  she had many alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit 
account for long, if she lost her income; and even if she did, she could  have kept that in 
reserve for longer.  So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN00464902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046490