K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Ulster Bank  Ltd mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr M took out PPI alongside a credit card in March 1998. The PPI protected  the credit  card 
monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed. He told us PPI was added 
without his knowledge or consent. He feels he wasnt  given all the information needed to 
make a fully informed decision and says the policy restrictions and limitations werent  
explained. Mr M said the PPI wasnt suitable  for his needs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
Theres only limited information  available now, so long after the sale. Ulster Bank couldnt 
say how it sold PPI to Mr M, although  Mr M thinks it was in a meeting and he may well be 
right. The original paperwork from the sale is no longer available  but the bank referred  us to 
an example of an application  form it thinks Mr M would've filled in to get his credit card with 
PPI. This shows he wouldve had to sign separately  to say whether or not he wanted to have 
the policy. And I think its likely he signed  such a form,  or one very similar  to it, having signed 
in the yes box to indicate he wanted PPI, even if he doesnt recall  that now. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to rely on Mr M being  able to remember everything as it happened 
so long ago. So I cant know  exactly what the bank mightve said to Mr M when he took out 
PPI. I have to look at everything  and decide what I think is most likely. I cant uphold his 
complaint just based on what Mr M says. 
Looked at overall, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that Mr M 
wouldve been unaware PPI was being  taken out with the card. It looks to me as if Mr M 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim.  So, on balance, I think its more 
likely that Mr M wanted to protect  his credit card monthly repayments  by taking out the PPI 
offered and Ulster Bank  added  PPI to his account  at his request. 
I dont think Ulster Bank advised Mr M to take out the policy.  So it didnt have  to check if it 
was suitable for him.
Ref: DRN06182182Its possible the information Ulster Bank  gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  Ive taken into account  that hes told us his employer wouldve paid him 
some sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr M was off work sick 
as a result  of illness or a disability. So the PPI provided better protection than he couldve 
relied on getting through his employer.  And the policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay, 
providing Mr M with a useful benefit  at a difficult time  especially if he had some extra costs 
as a result  of being sick or disabled. 
Also the policy  wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months if Mr M lost his job. 
Mr M told us he didnt  have any significant  other means he couldve relied on to cover his 
credit card monthly  repayments if he wasnt working.  Based on everything hes told us, 
I think that Mr M couldve benefitted from the PPI.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ms case.  So I dont think having  more information about things the policy  didnt cover  
wouldve affected his decision  to have PPI.
I dont think its likely  that Ulster Bank properly explained the policys cost, or what it might  
pay out if Mr M made a claim. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. I havent  seen anything to suggest it wasnt  affordable for him 
when he signed  up for the policy. And as he was paying for it monthly, he could cancel it at 
any time without further cost if his situation  changed or he no longer wanted  to pay for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mr M, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided.
This means  Ulster Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But it will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Ulster Bank got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Ulster Bank didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Ulster Bank has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ulster Bank Ltd has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ulster  Bank Ltd should  also pay back to Mr M any extra 
interest he paid because of that. 
Ulster Bank Ltd should  re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the difference  
between what Mr M owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Ulster Bank should also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN06182183my final decision 
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Ulster Bank Ltd does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr M.
But Ulster Bank Ltd does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I understand Mr M has been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). His former IVA 
supervisor has expressed an interest in any compensation  Mr M might receive. Mr M and 
Ulster Bank Ltd should  bear in mind Mr Ms obligations under that IVA in respect of any 
compensation he gets and make sure it is paid to the right person(s). A copy of this decision 
will be sent to his former IVA supervisor.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0618218