K821x#15Complaint
Miss M complains about problems she experienced after Barclays  Bank UK PLC blocked  her 
debit card while she was abroad. 
Background
Miss M has a Barclays account  and in August 2018 she temporarily moved to another  
country for a four month period. Miss M says she told Barclays about her plans before she 
left. 
In September  2018 Miss M had problems using her debit  card and contacted  Barclays via its 
online chat function as she didnt want to incur call costs  while  abroad.  Miss M says Barclays  
failed to respond to her in the various online chats she had and unreasonably delayed  a new 
card being  sent to her. 
Miss M complained and Barclays  agreed to pay her £50 to apologise. As she remained 
unhappy, Miss M referred  her complaint to our service  and it was passed to an investigator.  
The investigator initially said that Barclays had dealt with Miss Ms complaint fairly and didnt 
ask it to do anything  else. But after Miss M submitted some further information the 
investigator changed their mind  and asked Barclays to increase the settlement to £100. Both 
Barclays and Miss M didnt think that was fair. As neither party has accepted, the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms card was blocked by Barclays because of concerns  about  a data breach by a third 
party business. Barclays initially sent a replacement card to Miss Ms home  address  in the 
UK. But after she was unable to use the existing card she got in touch with Barclays.  I 
understand why Miss M is upset. But Barclays had legitimate concerns over the data breach 
and Im satisfied blocking  Miss Ms card and sending a replacement  was a reasonable step 
to take in order to protect her account.  I appreciate the fact Miss M was abroad  at the time 
made the situation harder to resolve  but I havent  found that Barclays  made an error  or 
treated her unfairly by taking that step. 
I can understand Miss Ms frustration with the way Barclays handled the online chats.  
Barclays says Miss M was responsible for ending the online chats and I can see that she did 
exit some.  But there also appear to have  been  online  chats that Barclays  cut off. In addition, 
Miss Ms main point  is that the chats werent responded to in good  time which  meant she 
ended them. I think thats a reasonable point. Miss M was responsive  and eager to progress 
matters throughout  all the chat logs Ive seen  but there is a common theme of Barclays  
taking several minutes to each question or point she raises. I can understand why she ended  
chats when she thought  the person she was talking to had abandoned  it. 
Miss M complains that she wasnt  called back by Barclays  as requested. I can see Barclays  
did attempt  to call Miss M on 13 September 2018  and that it took her phone number and 
international dialling code. But the number used to record Barclays  attempts to call Miss M 
indicates the call handler incorrectly included the 0 after the international dialling code, at 
Ref: DRN07896672the start of the phone number. The call notes show there was a dial tone instead  of the call 
connecting and I think its possible the format used  was wrong.   
I agree  with the investigator that the level of service  provided to Miss M should  have  been  
better. In my view, the chat logs show long periods of inactivity and a lack of responses 
being received  in a reasonable time.  In addition, its not clear whether Barclays used the 
right telephone number format when attempting to call Miss M. I agree with the investigator  
that the £50 Barclays paid Miss M doesnt  go far enough. 
Barclays sent Miss M a replacement card to her temporary address on 21 September  2018. 
Miss M says she didnt receive it until November 2018 which  added  to her difficulties. But Im 
satisfied Barclays sent it to her on 21 September 2018 as it claims and I cant  hold it 
responsible for delays  with international mail. 
Overall, I havent found anything to show Barclays acted  unfairly  by blocking Miss Ms card 
in September  2018 as it had genuine concerns following the third partys  data breach. The 
account terms allow Barclays  to take that step. But I do agree that the online chats were  
poorly handled and Barclays missed opportunities to resolve  matters  sooner and with less 
inconvenience to Miss M. As a result, I agree with the investigator that the level of 
compensation should be increased. I think £100 fairly reflects the impact  of this issue on 
Miss M. As a result, Im upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Miss M 
£100 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0789667