K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy that J D Williams & Company Limited t/a Simply Be increased the interest  
rate on her account.  Shes queried  why JDW deemed her a high risk customer when shed 
always paid on time.  And shes  also questioned why they increased her credit limit around 
the same  time they increased the interest  rate if she was supposedly deemed high risk. 
background
Miss M took out a Simply Be account  in 2001. Around June 2018 she received a letter 
saying her interest rate would increase from 3.14% to 3.61%. JDW explained  that the reason 
for the interest rate increase was due to risk-based pricing. Then  in August 2018 Miss Ms 
credit limit was increased. As I understand it had also been  increased some time prior to 
this. 
Miss M complained to JDW. But they didnt uphold the complaint. So she referred  the matter 
to our service. 
An investigator has already looked  at this case. He was concerned  by JDWs  actions and 
overall felt they hadnt acted fairly. So he suggested they refund Miss M the additional 
interest shed paid since the interest  rate increase. And, should Miss M want to, allow  her to 
settle her account  within a reasonable timeframe.  
Whilst Miss M agreed with this view, JDW didnt. So the case has now been  referred  to me 
to look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing to note is that, from what I can see, Miss Ms account has been  well 
maintained. JDW has advised that the reason for the interest rate increase was based on the 
risk make-up of Miss M. And that this was assessed using information on both her payment 
history and from credit reference agencies.  JDW  has explained that the interest  rate offered 
to a customer is based upon an estimation of the risk presented by a particular customer.  
Regarding the credit  limit increase JDW has explained  that this occurred due to positive data 
from credit  reference agencies showing that Miss Ms financial position  hadnt seemed to 
have worsened. 
JDW has told our service  that risk based pricing is standard  practice across the industry and 
many credit lenders will operate their business  in this way. They  have gone on to say that 
the two areas (lending and rates) are assessed separately and at different times.  But just like 
the investigator I think the two explanations JDW  has provided to our service to clarify  the 
interest rate increase  and credit limit increase are entirely contradictory. Ultimately I think  
Miss M has been treated unfairly in this matter. I appreciate JDW  can increase the interest 
rate on a customers account as part of their commercial discretion as a business. And I 
understand that they have  their own internal  processes  for assessing the risk potential  of a 
customer. But I struggle  to understand why if Miss M was deemed a higher risk customer  
around June 2018,  her credit limit was then increased in August 2018. These actions dont 
seem fair, consistent or reasonable. 
Ref: DRN01420362JDW has stressed  that, despite the credit limit increase in August 2018, Miss M didnt utilise 
this credit limit. But I dont think that matters. Miss M was apparently  charged the higher rate 
of interest on both her outstanding account balance and any future purchases. 
JDW had a responsibility  to treat Miss M fairly  and I dont  think this has happened. In order 
to fairly resolve this complaint  I too think JDW should refund the additional  interest Miss M 
has been charged since the interest rate on her account was increased. 
my final decision
My final decision is that J D Williams & Company Limited t/a Simply Be should 
1.Reverse the interest rate on Miss Ms account to the amount before the letter was 
sent in June 2018 (3.14%), 
2.Refund all the additional interest  to Miss M that she has paid since the interest  rate 
was increased, and 
3.Allow Miss M to close the account and settle  the outstanding balance  within  60 days. 
Should Miss M choose not to settle and close the account she will have no choice but to 
agree to the higher rate of interest going forward. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0142036