K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G are represented by CLAIMS. Their complaint is that Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
recommended an unsuitable investment which they made in 2007.
background
Mr and Mrs G were recommended investments in a five years  GBP China Equity & 
Agriculture Commodities Structured Note (the China fund) and a three  years  GBP 
Guaranteed Defined Returns Account (the GDRA).  They invested £100,000 in the China 
fund, which  was linked to the FTSE/Xinhua  25 China  index and to the S&P GSCI Agriculture 
Excess Return Index.  Their capital was protected  but returns  excluded  dividends and 
depended on the performances of the relevant equity and commodities indexes.
CLAIMS position on the complaint, on behalf  of Mr and Mrs G, is mainly  as follows:
At the time of the investment Mr and Mrs G were  retired,  they had significant capital 
but a relatively  modest income, they had a low risk attitude towards the investment 
and were relatively inexperienced in investments.
Given such a joint profile,  the workings of the China fund were unsuitably  
complicated for their level of investment experience  given that both indexes within it 
went beyond their basic (laypersons)  understanding of the domestic FTSE market.
Whilst the China fund protected their capital,  it unsuitably  exposed the capital to 
depreciation in its purchasing power  (in terms of inflation) given that at the end of the 
term and if the underlying indexes  had performed negatively  Mr and Mrs G would 
only recover the same (but depreciated)  capital. In contrast, a high interest account 
would have produced a guaranteed  return, which could have been broadly  
comparable to what the China fund might  have produced, would have  avoided  the 
fees/charges associated with the China fund and would avoided the risk of a nil 
return on the investment. In this respect, there  is support from an ombudsmans  
decision in another case  for the assertion that risk of a nil return on investments 
could be unsuitable   [depending on the circumstances of a case].
Redress should be given to Mr and Mrs G for the unsuitable investment on the basis  
of this services use of the BOE 12-17 month bond rate benchmark.
Barclays position, in the main,  is as follows:
It accepts  that Mr and Mrs G had limited investment experience and that, despite 
their overall low to medium risk profile,  they sought  to take a low risk approach with 
the investment.  Their  objective was for capital protection and capital growth beyond 
the level of growth they could get in a deposit  account  which is where they had the 
vast majority of their capital. They were debt free and in receipt  of sufficient and 
relatively secure income  with around £1,500 in monthly disposable income   so 
they did not need or want income  from the investment.
It asserts that the China fund was not unsuitable  in this context. It protected their 
capital. It did not provide dividend payments but that was understandable  because  
the alternative would  have  been to invest directly  in the index (in order to take 
dividend) which would have  put their capital at risk. The fund also provided 
diversification across the Chinese  equity  index and the commodities index  in 
contrast to concentration of the rest of Mr and Mrs Gs capital in deposits.
It accepts  that the China fund may not have been as simple for Mr and Mrs G to 
understand as a fund linked to the FTSE would have  been  but it was suitable 
Ref: DRN00911092nevertheless, for the above reasons and because it provided the potential  for the 
level of returns they sought. In addition, the GDRA was linked to the UK stock 
market, it was suitable and was proposed to them   but they chose not to invest  in it.
It argues that comparison between  the China fund and a high interest account is 
arguably wrong because  they did not need  or want income from the investment. 
Furthermore, in hindsight, the China fund was a better prospect  because most of the 
five years that followed after the investment was a period of ultralow  interest rates.
It considers that the case and ombudsmans decision  that CLAIMS  referred  to is 
inapplicable because it related  to investment of a large portion of the complainants 
money but Mr and Mrs G invested only around  10% of their money.
It offered  £250 for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr and Mrs G by the delay in 
responding to their complaint.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld, for 
broadly the same arguments made by CLAIMS. Barclays  did not accept this outcome and 
the complaint  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays duty towards Mr and Mrs G featured the need to recommend an investment(s) 
which it, in its professional opinion, concluded  to be suitable for their overall circumstances  
including but not limited  to their objective. I do not accept the suggestion that this 
responsibility was shared,  in any way, with Mr and Mrs G because  they were made aware  of 
the risk of nil return and/or  they chose not to invest in the GDRA. Barclays  recommendation 
of the China fund meant  that Mr and Mrs G were entitled to rely on it as recommendation of 
a product that was suitable for them. Like the adjudicator  and for broadly  the same  reasons 
raised in CLAIMS argument,  I too consider that the China fund was not suitable for them.
The objective for capital protection appears  to have been met, but this is not in dispute.  
There is common ground that the recommendation was supposed to be based on an agreed 
low risk approach. I am not persuaded that the mere existence  of a capital protected product 
matched this approach in Mr and Mrs Gs case.  Fact find related documentation shows  that 
CLAIMS point about depreciation (in the context of inflation) was actually addressed at the 
point of advice.  There is reference to Mr and Mrs G being uncomfortable  with the risk of 
losing money in the context of a loss in spending power and inflation.
Suitability should  be assessed by what was known and foreseeable at the point of advice. I 
do not consider  that the period of ultralow interest  rates that Barclays  has referred to would 
have been foreseeable  enough to influence  its advice  at the time. In the alternative, there 
does not appear  to be evidence of such foresight and influence in its recommendation. This 
argument appears to be wholly based on hindsight. I do not consider it justifies the 
recommendation.
At the time of advice  and in light of Mr and Mrs G being uncomfortable with loss and 
depreciation or inflation related loss of their money,  recommendation of the China fund 
appears to have been unsuitable. Barclays says that the risk of nil return  was advised to Mr 
and Mrs G, but the point  is that its knowledge  of that risk ought  reasonably  to have led it not 
to recommend the fund. Evidence  suggests  that they did not set out to take such a risk  it is 
Ref: DRN00911093agreed that they wanted better returns than they could get from deposits  so it appears 
unlikely that they would  have really wanted to take the chance of nil returns. 
I accept the implication that they agreed to the risk by accepting  recommendation of the 
China fund, but I consider it more likely (than  not) that their decision was reliant upon 
Barclays advice and perhaps the hope  that nil returns will not occur. The point,  I repeat, is 
that they should not have  been put in the position of facing an uncontrollable risk of nil 
returns. In this respect I can understand the case that CLAIMS has made  for 
recommendation and suitability  of a high interest product. In contrast  to the China fund, such 
a product would  arguably have matched the objective for potentially better-than-deposits  
returns devoid of the risk of nil returns and with the benefits  or potential benefits  of 
capital protection,  of less exposure  to depreciation or inflation and of investing  in a product 
that was easier,  for relatively  inexperienced investors like Mr and Mrs G, to understand than 
the China  fund.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above  I uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair compensation my aim is to put Mr and Mrs G as close as I can to the 
position they would probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice. I take 
the view that they would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what  
they would  have done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
given their circumstances and objectives  at the time of their investment.
what must  Barclays do?
To compensate the Mr and Mrs G fairly,  Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Gs investment  with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay them the difference between the fair value and the actual value 
of the investment. If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation 
for financial loss is payable. If compensation is payable, pay them  interest as set out 
below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Pay Mr and Mrs G the £250  it offered  if it has not already been  paid  for the 
trouble and upset  caused by the delay in addressing their complaint.
Provide Mr and Mrs G with the calculation of redress  in a clear  and simple  format.
investment  
nameStatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
The GBP 
China Equity  & 
Agriculture  
Commodities 
Structured  
Note (linked  to 
the 
FTSE/Xinhua  
25 China 
index and to 
the S&P GSCI 
Agriculture  SurrenderedBank of 
England 
average 
return from 
fixed  rate 
bondsDate  of 
investment  Date 
Surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement.
Ref: DRN00911094Excess Return 
Index)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the portfolio at the end date.  
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Barclays should  apply  those rates to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mr and Mrs G wanted  capital growth with a very low risk investment approach  
including capital  protection.
The Bank of England  average return from fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure 
for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return  without risk to capital. It 
does not mean that I suggest  Mr and Mrs G would  have invested in a fixed  rate bond.  
However, I consider  that the benchmark  broadly reflects  the sort of return they could 
have obtained  from a suitable  investment.
The additional interest is for Mr and Mrs G being deprived of the use of any 
compensation money since  the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  I order Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC to pay them redress as detailed above,  including its offer of £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused  by its delay in addressing their complaint (if this has not already been  paid).  I 
also order Barclays Bank UK PLC to provide them  with a calculation of redress in a clear 
and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0091109