K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs B bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint because:
 I think FICL made Mrs B aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. She signed  on the credit agreement to specifically indicate she 
wanted PPI. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs B doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. She had no other way to make 
repayments if she was unable to work. So I dont  think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Bs comments,  including what  her representatives have said 
about there being crosses marked on the credit  agreement to indicate  where  to sign.  But 
these points dont  change my conclusion. I dont  think the crosses  are sufficient to show  that 
she was tricked into signing for PPI when  she didnt want it. It seems at least equally likely 
that Mrs B was told what each signature was for. And I think  the credit agreement makes  
clear that signing there is for PPI and that it comes with a cost. So I dont think  the crosses 
are sufficient to justify me upholding the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ref: DRN07782932ombudsman
Ref: DRN0778293