K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D were sold a MPPI policy in 1996.
The policy provided  a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months if Mr and/or Mrs D were  off work 
sick or lost their job/s.  The benefit  was split equally between  them  so that if one of them  was 
off work, they would receive 50% of the benefit. If neither of them were working then they 
would receive the full benefit. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs D didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs D were eligible under the policy. Based on 
Mr and Mrs Ds age and employment (amongst other things)  at the time of the sale,  Im 
satisfied they were eligible. Clearly, just because they were eligible doesnt  mean  that the 
policy could not have been  mis-sold for other  reasons.  So Ive gone  on to consider  the other 
factors relevant  to whether or not the policy  was mi-sold.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that the MPPI was optional  and needed  their 
consent before it could  be applied to their account. Mr and Mrs D say that the MPPI was 
added without their knowledge.  They say they didnt have MPPI with their mortgage initially  
and wouldnt  have  asked  for it when they took out their further advance. They  say that didnt 
want a PPI policy and could have managed on one income if need be as they had done 
previously.
Lloyds say that the optional nature would have been  made clear to Mr and Mrs D. Given the 
length of time since the sale, its understandable that Lloyds no longer have the documents  
completed at the time of the sale. So I cant hold it against them that they are unable to show  
us how PPI was presented. Equally  understandably, I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs D to now 
remember clearly the specifics of what happened  at the time of the sale.  However, what  this 
does mean  is that I dont  have sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that its more likely 
that Lloyds didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs D that PPI was optional  or that they didnt 
choose to take it out. 
Lloyds dont know how the policy was sold but are treating this as an advised  sale for the 
benefit of Mr and Mrs D. This means  they had to check it was suitable  for them.  I dont know 
Ref: DRN09757252if Lloyds took all the steps they should  have  to check if the MPPI was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs D but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I say this because:
-The MPPI would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Ds sick pay and for a 
longer period of time.
-Mr and Mrs D dont appear  to have been affected by the terms in the policy which  
would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for 
Mr and Mrs D.
-Mr and Mrs D could have cancelled the MPPI  at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted  or needed  it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D, Lloyds  also had to give 
them clear  information  about the MPPI   in particular about the costs, benefits  and main  
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D have referred to another complaint which  was upheld. But 
each case is decided  on its own merits and having taken everything into consideration, I 
dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr and Mrs D this MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0975725