K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  in November 2001.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in November 2001. The PPI was sold to her when she applied  for a 
store card by filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
Mrs B says she didnt agree to take out the PPI. She says that had she been given a choice, 
she never would have agreed to take it out. So, Ive thought about what  shes  said alongside 
the additional information Ive seen from FICL.
FICL has provided us with a copy of Mrs Bs credit agreement. This shows that Mrs B was 
asked to select whether  or not she wanted  Account Cover which  included  PPI. Under the 
section Protecting  your Account, I can see Mrs B was asked to sign if she wanted the cover 
added to her account. Looking  at the credit  agreement, I can see Mrs B placed her signature 
in the box to say she wanted the cover.
Ive also noted  that under  the same section on the application form, Mrs B had the option  of 
selecting whether  or not she wanted Card Protection Plan. Mrs B didnt select this product, 
so I think she would  have  known she had a choice  about taking out either  product. Overall,  I 
think its more likely  than not Mrs B would have understood  the PPI was optional. And I dont 
think she would have  signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
FICL says it didnt recommend that Mrs B take out the PPI. Mrs B on the other  hand  says it 
did. So Ive thought about what both parties  have said, taking into account the available  
information from the time of sale. Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest 
that FICL  assessed  Mrs Bs circumstances at the time and recommended  that Mrs B take 
out the PPI. This means FICL didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to 
make sure Mrs B got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs B chose to take out the PPI, so it 
Ref: DRN05358762looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at 
the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover, such  as pre-existing medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs B has told us she would have received at least six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she 
could have relied on her family to help with her store card repayments.
Having thought about what  Mrs B has said about  her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs B would have received from her employer and would have paid 
out for longer. The PPI also would have  paid a benefit if Mrs B was ever made redundant.
Ive also thought about what  Mrs B has said about  the fact that she could have  relied on her 
family to help her with her repayments.  Again,  I dont think  this meant  that the PPI wasnt 
useful for her. While Mrs Bs family  would  want to help, their financial situation could change 
and so this help couldnt always  be relied  on.
So overall, I think Mrs B could have found  the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better  information  would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0535876