K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a store  card in 2001.
The policy cost £1.00 per £100 Mrs M owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs M couldnt work because  she 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain my reasoning  below.
Mrs Ms PPI policy was sold in store. Ive seen a copy  of her credit application. On it is a 
section related to PPI where Mrs M has signed  to say she wanted the policy.  If Mrs M hadnt 
wanted the policy she couldve left this section  blank.  On balance I think its more likely she 
chose to take the policy knowing  it was optional. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M and I think  thats likely to be right.  So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave 
Mrs M clear  enough information about  the policy  to enable her to decide  for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs M 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Mrs M has told us that she wouldve received some sick pay if she was off work sick. The 
PPI would have  paid out on top of any employee benefits she wouldve received and until 
she was able to return to work, or until the outstanding balance was cleared  whichever 
came first. And the policy would cover the same term if she was to lose her job. So I still 
think the policy couldve been useful to her. And overall, when taking into account everything 
Ive seen and been told, I dont think Mrs M has lost out as a result  of anything FICL  did 
wrong.
Ref: DRN00842522my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0084252