K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy by Bank 
of Scotland plc. To keep  things simple, Ill refer mainly to BoS.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy in 1996  at the same  time as taking out a joint-mortgage.  
They say applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch but the PPI policy  provided  
cover only for Mr D; Mrs D wasnt named on it. Subject  to its exclusions and limitations,  the 
PPI offered  to pay £348 a month towards  their mortgage balance in the event of Mr D 
making successful claim. At the time,  it cost £20.83  a month. 
Mr D was employed as a bus driver and entitled to up to 6 months sick pay with his job. The 
company representing him says he was also entitled to redundancy pay and death in service  
protection, although Ive been sent no evidence of this. I note hed been employed  in his job 
for 2 years. As regards  health, we were  told Mr D suffered  from a bad back  around 1990  and 
high blood pressure around  1994.  Ive considered all these circumstances  when thinking  
about the complaint. 
The mortgage account closed in 2001,  although  its possible  Mr and Mrs D transferred to a 
new product. Actually, theres very little information or records  left to refer to in this sale,  
which makes being  certain very difficult. However,  given when this sale was, this lack of 
information isnt unusual, or indeed unreasonable. Nevertheless, Ive used what  Ive been 
told and also the considerable  experience  I have, having seen many  such cases  before, in 
coming to a judgement about  what is more  likely  to have  happened
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Their 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN03555602The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. There were  a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which  I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General 
Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of 
Insurance Companies) other than Registered  Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN03555603The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs D 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN03555604BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. However,  as Ive said,  we dont 
have anything left to refer to other  than some  computerised records  from BoSs systems. But 
I think its just as likely Mr and Mrs D did know they had a choice.  I say this because, my 
general experience  of these sales from that time period is that the mortgage application 
would have required a cross (x) or something  similar, if PPI cover was something they 
wanted to buy. 
I also take note that only Mr D was covered by this PPI policy  even though it was a joint 
mortgage. To me, this supports the view that a discussion took place with the adviser and Mr 
and Mrs D set up the PPI cover in a way that reflected their needs, with Mr D being  the 
higher earner. I also think theyd have needed  to authorise the monthly PPI premium to 
leave their bank account  by way of a direct  debit or something similar. They would have 
therefore been aware of the £20.83 leaving their account each  month for 5 years or so until 
their next mortgage  review. And I see the PPI continued after this, most probably, in my 
view, to protect other borrowing which followed.
So, taking everything  into account, I accept theres very little to go on here. But I think  its 
more likely Mr and Mrs D knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
This was an advised  sale which means BoS had to advise Mr and Mrs D with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  
and circumstances.
the advice
BoS most  likely took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. The adviser  already had some limited information about  
Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mr D would have been  caught by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his and Mrs 
Ds needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest BoS considered  whether Mr D had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  this was a mortgage secured on their 
home, so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have 
been serious. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs D manage  the 
consequences if Mr D was unable  to work.
Ref: DRN03555605-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs D.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ds employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And the previous medical  conditions he mentioned  pre-
date the sale by quite a bit. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that the policyholder be disabled or 
unemployed for 60 days before  they could make  a claim, the policy  still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr Ds circumstances, including his employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs D be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were probably given a broad 
description of what the policy was intended  to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their 
payments if Mr D was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of 
the costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations, for example,  before  Mr and Mrs D agreed to 
take out the policy. Overall, having  considered the parties representations  about what 
happened, while Im satisfied  the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D 
Im not persuaded BoS did enough  to present information about  the policy it was 
recommending in a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave 
Mr and Mrs D all of the information  they needed about the policy to make an informed 
decision about whether to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN03555606In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ds. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs D suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS probably  didnt  do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr 
and Mrs D. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs D would have still taken out the policy,  had BoS done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs D have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs D would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. Deciding whether to follow advice to 
take out insurance requires the consumer  to weigh up a number of factors before deciding  
whether to proceed. Effectively  the consumer  has to weigh up the advice to take out the 
policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in return and the potential 
consequences they will suffer if they do not have  insurance, should  the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
Ref: DRN03555607D was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they may have  made  that decision based on incomplete  
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. But 
the information about some aspects of the policy, such  as the limitations  and exclusions 
probably wasnt as clear as it should have been.  Possibly the most significant differences  
between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had bought and what  they actually bought were 
the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that Mr D knew 
about or ought to have known about 12 months  before  the start date of the policy;  
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking out the 
policy. 
However, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr D was eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  could  have proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr D would have been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  
theres no verifiable evidence Mr D had any pre-existing  medical  conditions,  as defined by 
the policy. And having looked at whats been  said about the 1990 and 1994  health 
conditions, I see no evidence suggesting  these would have caused  Mr D to think  taking time 
off work for an extended time would be likely.  So, I still think  he and Mrs D had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
So I consider it likely Mr and Mrs D would still have  thought a policy  that paid up to 12 
monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to and would help them  manage  the 
consequences should Mr D be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy. 
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce outgoings at a difficult 
and uncertain time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr D was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
Ref: DRN03555608and Mrs D would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs D found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs D think BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN03555609Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0355560