K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Scottish Widows Limited  (Scottish Widows). Hes unhappy with what  
Scottish Widows  has proposed as a resolution following errors it made with his annuity.
background
In 2018 Mr Cs independent financial adviser  (IFA)  contacted Scottish Widows to complain 
that it had failed to let Mr C know its Safety Plus fund had been  closed the previous year. Mr 
Cs IFA said that had Scottish Widows done so he wouldve converted his unitised annuity  to 
a standard annuity. Scottish Widows responded and said Mr C still had the option of 
converting his annuity. 
Upon further investigation however Scottish Widows  discovered  what  it had told Mr C was 
incorrect. However based on the information Scottish Widows had given to Mr C in error it 
agreed to still allow  him to convert  his annuity. Mr Cs IFA later requested a relevant annuity 
quote so Mr C could  do this.
Because the decision to allow Mr C to convert his annuity wasnt  Scottish Widows usual 
process a non-standard  quote had to be put together.  This caused several delays.  Mr Cs 
IFA chased the matter  up with Scottish Widows and was told the quote was still being 
processed.
Mr Cs annuity quote was eventually issued but in recognition of the delays that had 
occurred Scottish Widows  paid Mr C £150  compensation.
Unfortunately because Scottish  Widows  actuaries used the wrong  policy number for Mr C 
when carrying out calculations, the annuity  quote issued to Mr C was incorrect and included  
inflated figures. 
Mr Cs IFA queried  the figures  outlined  in Scottish Widows quote. But as Scottish Widows 
provided assurances the figures were  correct, Mr C later accepted  the quote and made his 
final request to convert his annuity.  
While processing Mr Cs annuity  conversion  request Scottish  Widows identified  the error it 
had made  with the figures in the quote it had issued to Mr C. Scottish  Widows began  looking 
into how to rectify the matter. During  this time Mr Cs IFA contacted  Scottish Widows for an 
update. Scottish  Widows apologised for the time taken and said the matter was ongoing. 
Scottish Widows  later issued Mr C a revised annuity quote based  on his correct  policy  value. 
This outlined  an annual income which  was significantly lower  than the one provided to Mr C 
in the first quote  he accepted. Based on concerns about what had happened Mr Cs IFA 
complained further  to Scottish Widows.
Scottish Widows  responded and issued its final response on the matter. In summary it said:
its first error was in April 2018 when it agreed  to convert Mr Cs annuity. This 
shouldnt have  happened because Mr Cs annuity was taken out in 1998  and before  
a conversion on anniversary was provided for in the terms and conditions for unitised 
annuities like Mr Cs. This error led to technical  issues while Scottish  Widows  tried to 
create a suitable  quote for Mr C
Ref: DRN01862942its second error came when an incorrect policy number was used  to create  Mr Cs 
quote. This resulted in an annuity  being calculated  based  on an incorrect  policy 
value. So when  Mr Cs quote was issued he was offered the incorrect annual income. 
Mr Cs IFA had correctly identified this didnt seem right.  But despite querying the 
matter he was assured  the inflated  figure was correct 
it had considered the amount of time Mr C had been under the impression he was 
going to receive  a much larger annuity, and the overall delays and poor service when 
looking at a suitable level of compensation. Given the raised expectations and how 
long it had taken  to resolve  matter it was awarding  Mr C £2,000 compensation
it recognised Mr Cs IFA had carried out work on behalf of Mr C during the time its 
errors were made. So it asked  Mr Cs IFA to provide  a breakdown of his time and 
hourly rates and said it would  be happy  to look at covering these expenses
Unhappy with Scottish Widows response Mr C referred his complaint to our service  with the 
assistance of his IFA.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
she agreed the service Scottish  Widows had provided was poor but felt it had taken 
reasonable steps to put the matter right
she understood Mr C had said he made a number of financial commitments  based on 
the incorrect annuity quote Scottish  Widows had provided but felt that based on the 
available evidence  the £2,150 compensation offered  in respect  of this was fair
Mr Cs IFA disagreed. In summary he said:
our investigator hadnt fully considered  the financial  impact of Scottish Widows error
Mr C had made several  financial commitments  based on the incorrect information  
hed been provided  with
although hed queried with Scottish Widows the figures provided in its incorrect quote 
assurances had been  given that everything was correct
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
direct Scottish Widows  to do anything further. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should 
emphasise that while Ive taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments 
made by both parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues  central 
to this complaint.   
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr C. I can appreciate  it will have been deeply 
frustrating and very disappointing  to have experienced  the level of service he has from 
Scottish Widows  while  trying  to resolve repeated issues with his annuity. 
Theres no dispute about the fact Scottish  Widows:
failed to notify Mr C or his IFA of the closure of its Safety Plus fund when it shouldve
delayed issuing Mr Cs annuity quote  when it agreed to let him convert  his annuity
provided Mr C with an annuity quote  based  on incorrect figures
Ref: DRN01862943Mr C is understandably  concerned and very unhappy about what has happened.  Not only 
did Scottish Widows  provide Mr C with poor levels of service. It also unfairly raised  Mr Cs 
expectations.
The issue  I have to decide is whether the action Scottish Widows has already taken and 
further offered  to take satisfactorily  resolves  the matter and sufficiently compensates  Mr C 
for what has happened. 
In failing to make Mr C aware  of the closure of the Safety Plus fund, Mr C felt Scottish 
Widows had deprived him of the opportunity to convert to a standard  annuity.  In an effort  to 
put this right Scottish  Widows  initially said it would  still allow Mr C to convert  his annuity. 
However Scottish Widows has since said this concession should never have been made 
because based  on when Mr C took out his annuity he didnt qualify for such  a conversion.
Nevertheless given  Scottish Widows initial error (regarding the fund closure)  and its 
subsequent error (allowing the conversion when it says it shouldnt  have) I think Scottish 
Widows decision  to still permit Mr C to convert  his annuity was an appropriate attempt to put 
things right in the circumstances.
It seems  to me Scottish Widows was trying to put Mr C back in the position it thought he 
wouldve likely been in had he been  informed about  the fund closure when he shouldve  
been. But in making an error trying to resolve matters, Scottish Widows felt the fairest 
remedy was to allow Mr C to go ahead  with the annuity conversion. I think  this was 
reasonable.
Unfortunately, despite an effort to put things right Scottish Widows failed to provide Mr C 
with the quote he needed so he could go ahead with the conversion  of his annuity  in a timely  
fashion. Scottish Widows has explained  it took longer to issue the quote because  it couldnt  
be completed using  its standard procedures. And from the correspondence Ive seen  
Scottish Widows  also didnt  have  the personnel required  to carry out the necessary process 
to generate the type of quote required.  This was unfortunate and given Scottish  Widows first 
error with the fund closure I can imagine how frustrated Mr C will have been when more 
things seemed to be going wrong. 
Scottish Widows  apologised for the delays caused and in recognition of this paid Mr C £150 
compensation. Considering the inconvenience  further poor service from Scottish Widows 
wouldve caused Mr C this level of award is in line with what Id expect to see in the 
circumstances. So I wont be requiring Scottish to pay Mr C anything further regarding this.
The most significant failing seems  to me to be the error Scottish  Widows made once it 
issued Mr Cs quote. 
The first quote Mr C received said that based on his policy value of £316,997.51  the annual 
income he could  receive by converting  his annuity was £15,005.92.  But because, as Mr C 
and his IFA say, the figures appeared higher  than they expected they queried the matter 
directly with Scottish Widows. Unfortunately Scottish Widows failed at this stage to identify 
the error  it had made. Instead it provided assurances that its quote was correct and in doing 
so led Mr C to believe  the annual income hed receive if he accepted the quote  would  be 
significantly higher  than what he was later confirmed to be entitled to.
Ref: DRN01862944Mr C accepted Scottish Widows quote  in good faith.  He understood that his new annuity 
would pay him the annual  income Scottish Widows  had outlined  and which  hed agreed to. 
Unfortunately this was later discovered to be incorrect  as Scottish  Widows  had used the 
wrong policy number  when producing Mr Cs annuity  quote.  
Its clear to me theres been significant trouble and upset caused to Mr C by Scottish  
Widows error. And I think he should  receive compensation which reflects this. But I think 
there are number of considerations  to establish what compensation would be appropriate in 
the circumstances.
Im mindful of the difference between the policy value  Scottish  Widows provided  Mr C and 
his IFA with in its incorrect quote of September 2018 and the corrected  quote  issued several  
later. 
Although there are several  months between the incorrect quote and the correct quote, its 
clear to me that something was very wrong with the figures Scottish Widows initially  
provided. Indeed  it quoted a policy value which was almost  six times the actual value of Mr 
Cs policy as provided in the correct quote. 
Im also aware that Mr C wouldve been  sent annual statements confirming the value  of his 
policy. On this basis I think  it was clear something was wrong  with Scottish  Widows  first 
annuity quote. This is supported by Mr Cs IFAs queries  to Scottish  Widows  regarding the 
first quote. 
I am conscious however that while Mr C and his IFA did query the incorrect quote, Scottish 
Widows provided assurances  that everything  was correct. I think  it was reasonable for Mr C 
and his IFA to feel they could  rely to some  degree on the information provided  by Scottish 
Widows. But based on what wouldve  been  known about Mr Cs policy value prior to the 
incorrect quote being issued and the size of the discrepancy I cant fairly say it was 
reasonable for Mr C to wholly  rely on the information  Scottish Widows provided. 
I cant reasonably say Scottish Widows  should  compensate Mr C by paying the higher level 
of annuity he feels he was led to expect he would  receive. It wouldnt be fair for Mr C to 
benefit financially  because of Scottish Widows error. 
In a situation like this, we aim to put a consumer back in the position they would have been 
in, had the correct  action  been taken at the outset. So for Mr C, the correct  action is that he 
receives the annuity he was originally entitled to (based on his actual policy  value) and not 
the higher annuity quoted  to him in error.  If I told Scottish Widows to pay Mr C the higher 
amount hed expected then hed receive money that he wasnt  really entitled to. So I dont 
intend to direct Scottish Widows to compensate  Mr H in this way.
I recognise that Mr C had his expectations  raised,  and it is therefore understandable that he 
is disappointed  not to be receiving the higher pension income quoted  in error. Whilst I 
sympathise with Mr C, it is still the case that he is not entitled  to receive the higher sum that 
should not have been offered  to him in the first place.  Instead, I consider that it is fair that he 
receives the revised income Scottish  Widows has confirmed is available  based on his 
correct policy value.
Ive thought carefully about the level of compensation Scottish  Widows has offered Mr C for 
its mistake with his annuity  quote.  Scottish  Widows £2,000 offer is a substantial award 
which I think fairly reflects the loss of expectation and level of trouble and upset experienced 
Ref: DRN01862945by Mr C. I wont be directing Scottish Widows to increase  it. I understand Mr C and his IFA 
dont consider £2,000 to be significant compensation.  But I must respectfully disagree, and 
based on what Ive seen Ive not been persuaded that increasing this award would be 
appropriate in the circumstances. Im also mindful that Scottish  Widows did also invite Mr Cs 
IFA to provide it with a breakdown of time spent  and their hourly rate so it could consider 
covering expenses incurred during the period  in question. I think this was a fair proposal. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C considers to be the financial impact of Scottish  
Widows incorrect  annuity quote. I understand Mr C has said that as he expected his new 
annuity income to be received immediately he booked a holiday. He also says he committed  
to underwriting  his daughters mortgage payments and agreed to provide her with an annual 
gift of £3,000.
As Ive already  said I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C or his IFA to rely to some 
degree on the information Scottish  Widows provided them  with. However  based  on Scottish 
Widows previous errors and delays,  coupled with the substantial discrepancy between  the 
level of income Mr C and his IFA expected to secure based on what  Mr C and his IFA knew 
Mr Cs policy  value to be and what Scottish Widows initially  incorrectly  quoted, I think it 
wouldve been prudent for Mr C to wait until his annuity was set up and the income received 
before taking any definitive action or finalising any financial  commitments.  Despite Scottish 
Widows incorrect  assurances I dont think the erroneous figures it provided to Mr C were  
ever plausible to such  an extent that they could be relied on to be accurate. 
I have real sympathy for Mr C and can appreciate how upsetting it will have been when 
Scottish Widows  mistake  came to light. Its clear  to me that having correct  information about 
his retirement income is of great  importance to Mr C and understandably so as it directly  
impacts the financial decisions he makes. Scottish Widows mistakes and poor service will 
have naturally undermined Mr Cs confidence in the service it provides and perhaps also his 
faith in the information  it gives him. But Scottish Widows doesnt dispute  the fact that it has 
got things wrong.  It has apologised and offered compensation for what has happened.  
While Im not directing  Scottish Widows to make the award I understand Mr C would like, in 
that I dont  think Scottish Widows should be bound to pay him an annuity based on the 
incorrect information it quoted or that it should  offer further compensation, I should say that I 
do think its entirely reasonable  for him to expect Scottish Widows to provide correct 
information. And its unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen.  I am genuinely sorry to 
hear of the impact  that this has had on Mr C. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Cs sincerity or strength of feeling in bringing  his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Scottish Widows to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr C to decide whether he 
would like to accept Scottish Widows Limiteds offer of £2,000  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Chillel Bailey
Ref: DRN01862946ombudsman
Ref: DRN0186294