K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford to repay. 
background
Ms J took out three loans  with Mr Lender between July and December 2012. She says the 
loans werent affordable  and she also had loans from other short  term lenders. 
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out responsible lending  
assessments including credit checks and that these didnt raise any concerns. It says it 
checked Ms Js monthly income and that the highest loan amount was not more  than 21% of 
her income. It says the checks it carried out were  proportionate and didnt suggest the loans 
were unaffordable.
Mr Lender says that Ms J was considered creditworthy  so she was allowed to use its rollover  
service and that she was made aware  of the rollover before and after payment. When  Ms J 
contacted it about her financial  difficulties (after the third loan had been  provided) it says it 
supported her by setting  up a repayment  plan on which the interest was frozen. Ms J settled  
this loan in April 2013.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr Lender 
shouldnt have continued to lend to Ms J after her third deferral (roll over) of loan one. She 
thought the pattern of lending showed  that the loans from the third deferral were 
unsustainable. She recommended that the interest and changes on the loans from 25 
October 2012 to 25 April 2013 be refunded (along with interest)  and that any negative  
information regarding  these loans be removed from Ms Js credit file.
Mr Lender responded  to our adjudicators view agreeing to a refund on the fourth rollover  of 
the first loan but not to refund the interest and charges on the other loans. Ms J didnt accept 
this offer.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms J could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN06477232But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms J could  sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loans were  taken  out in 2012. At that time the relevant regulator was the Office  of Fair 
Trading (OFT).  The guidance  at the time set out the need to make  a reasonable assessment 
of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a sustainable  manner. A sustainable  
manner is said to mean being able to the make the repayments without undue difficulties 
throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise security or assets. It then 
further says that without  undue difficulty means  without having  to borrow further.
In this case, Ms J took out her first loan of £250  in July 2012. I think  that based on Ms Js 
declared salary and credit check there was nothing that would  have raised concerns that 
would have required further checks to have taken  place before this initial  loan was provided.  
Given this was Ms Js first loan it may not be unreasonable to have not been concerned 
about the first or second rollover but as this pattern  continued I think concerns should have 
been raised. This loan was rolled over on four occasions which  I think showed Ms J was 
experiencing difficulties in meeting her repayment. Because of this I agree with our 
adjudicator that the fourth rollover  shouldnt  have been provided. 
Mr Lender made an offer in regard to the fourth rollover on the first loan but didnt accept that 
the second and third loans were irresponsibly lent.
The second  loan was taken out two days after the first was repaid. Given  the rollovers  on the 
first loan and the timing  of the second I think this showed a pattern of borrowing that 
suggested Ms J wasnt able to sustainably afford her repayments. I note the amount 
borrowed was less than Ms J borrowed on her first loan but I think the information Mr Lender 
had about Ms J at this time meant it should have  been concerned about her financial 
situation and her ability to make her repayments  in a sustainable manner.
The third loan was taken out four days after she repaid the second. This shows her 
borrowing pattern  was continuing  and while the amount was £150 this was still a substantial  
amount of the repayment she had made a few days early.
Ref: DRN06477233Overall, I think that Mr Lender should  have been concerned  about  Ms Js financial  situation 
when she rolled  over her first loan on several  occasions. Her pattern of borrowing suggested  
she was dependent on short term loans and I think  that Mr Lender should  have  realised that 
all loans provided from the fourth rollover of loan one onwards were  unsustainable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) 
should:
refund  all interest and charges that Ms J paid on the loans  from 25 October 2012 to 
25 April 2013;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*; and
remove any negative information  about the fourth deferral on loan one to loan three 
from Ms Js credit  file.
*HMRC requires  PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest If Ms J asks you for a 
certificate showing how much tax youve taken  off, you should provide this. If you intend to 
use the refund to reduce  an amount Ms J owes, you must do this after tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0647723