K821x#15Complaint
Mr M has complained about advice  he received  from Portafina  LLP to transfer  a defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP  were then used to invest  in 
several unregulated  collective investment  schemes  (UCIS).
Background
Mr M was introduced to Portafina in 2015  after hed been in contact with another business,  
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide  investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide  
pension transfer  advice. 
Portafina completed a telephone review with Mr M on 24 April 2015.  Following  this call, 
Portafina produced  a suitability report setting out its advice. The report said Mr M was 57 
years old, employed and earning approximately £35,000 a year.  He had annuity income of 
£6,000 per year from another  OPS and he was a member  of his current  employers scheme.  
The report  noted  Mr M was single, with no dependants and owned  his own home, with an 
outstanding mortgage. It said Mr M was in good  health and he believed he was likely to retire 
at age 66. Mr M had he had savings of £5,000 and disposable income of £300  per month.
Regarding Mr Ms OPS, the report recorded it had a cash  equivalent  transfer value (CETV) 
of £43,525 and a scheme  retirement age of 62. According to the suitability report, the 
scheme would  pay a pension of £2,762 per year without taking any tax free cash (TFC).  But 
the pension would be £2,051 if TFC of £13,675 was taken. However, these figures  are 
different to information  from the ceding  scheme,  which stated that a full pension  of £4,795 
was payable, or a pension  of £3,780  with TFC of £21,577.
The report  stated Mr Ms Main Stated Objectives  were that he would like to retire  at a later 
age than his scheme  normal  retirement age, to maximise  the TFC available and flexibility.  
The report  also noted a belief that interest  rates may increase, which could potentially 
devalue the CETV in future. Further objectives  such as death  benefits for his family,  
ownership and control  and the willingness to accept the investment risk were  also included.
Portafinas report concluded Mr Ms risk profile  suggested he had an adventurous  attitude 
to risk (ATR). Based  on this risk classification, Portafina estimated a personal pension 
would grow at a rate of 8.27%, not including advice and plan charges. It said the required 
growth rate (critical yield) needed  for a new personal  pension plan (PPP) to match  the 
benefits Mr M was entitled to through his OPS was 14% (or 12.2% if TFC was taken from the 
scheme). But if Mr M used income drawdown  to access benefits, instead  of purchasing an 
annuity, then over his lifetime the investment return needed to match  his OPS was 6.36% 
per year.
Portafina said it wouldnt be providing  any advice in relation  to where Mr Ms funds would be 
invested after the switch, as this would be given by Firm C. Having considered  all the 
information, Portafina recommended that Mr M transfer his OPS  to a SIPP for the following 
reasons:
A suitable model portfolio for Mr M could achieve targeted returns  of 8.27% before 
initial and ongoing advice charges and plan charges.
Ref: DRN01421842Based  on the growth rate required as a result  of Mr M taking benefits  via income 
drawdown, it believed  a transfer could  be able to increase  the overall pension and 
TFC benefits available to him.
Transferring would  give Mr M ownership and control over his retirement fund.
Flexibility to vary income  year on year.
Having the potential for an enhanced  annuity; although Mr M had no current health  
issues this was an important consideration for him.
The current economic  environment with low interest rates  was conducive to Mr M 
achieving a relatively high CETV from his OPS; transferring  now might present a 
significant opportunity  to benefit  from this.
A transfer would  meet  Mr Ms key objectives  far better than remaining in his OPS.
The recommended  SIPP was established in 2015  and Mr Ms OPS CETV was transferred 
afterwards. The servicing rights for the SIPP were later transferred over to Firm C. In 
January 2015  Firm C invested approximately 42% (£18,000)  of Mr Ms SIPP into the 
following UCIS funds:
Brisa Investments  £3,600
Biomass Investments  £3,600 
Lakeview UK Invest  £3,600
Motion Picture Global  £3,600
Strategic Residential   £3,600
A small  amount was left as cash and the remainder was allocated to regulated investments.
In 2017 Mr M complained  to Portafina  about  the advice he received to transfer via a 
representative. Mr M said the advice was negligent  and unsuitable for someone  with no 
investment experience, a low attitude  to risk and medium capacity for loss. He also 
considered that Portafina couldnt make  its transfer recommendation without taking 
responsibility for assessing  the underlying SIPP investments. 
Mr M also submitted a claim to the FSCS about Firm S regarding the UCIS investments 
made using  his SIPP funds. The FSCS rejected his claim  in September 2017,  stating that as 
it was a fund  of last resort it couldnt consider his claim while his complaint against  Portafina 
was being considered.
Mr M did not receive a response to his complaint  from Portafina and referred the matter  to 
our service.  
Portafina considered  Mr Ms complaint and concluded that it had provided suitable advice in 
line with his circumstances, needs  and objectives  at the time and acted in his best interests. 
It said it only provided the advice in order  that Mr M could access  his TFC to purchase a car 
and renovate  his roof and hadnt provided  specific investment advice as this had been 
provided by Firm C. Because Firm S and Firm C were in liquidation, Portafina confirmed that 
it had forwarded  Mr Ms investment concerns  to the liquidators.
Following this, an adjudicator considered the matter and concluded that Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld.  She didnt think Portafinas  advice was suitable. In summary  her view 
said:
She disagreed  with Portafinas assessment that Mr M was an adventurous investor.
Ref: DRN01421843The critical yield required to match Mr Ms OPS benefits was too high risk for his 
circumstances and he should  have been  advised to stay in his OPS.
The reasons  given for the transfer were not sufficient to justify  a transfer to a SIPP  
invested in high risk products in exchange  for giving  up guaranteed  income.
Portafina could  not have recommended the transfer without knowing how it would be 
invested. Had it researched the investment, it would have found that UCIS would 
have been used.
As Mr M was not an experienced or sophisticated investor, his circumstances didnt 
fit within the exemptions to the restrictions of the promotion of UCIS.
Mr M should  be redressed in line with the regulators  pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial conduct Authority in October 20107. Portafina should 
assume that he had accessed his benefits  at age 62.
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicators findings and in summary said:
It used an independent  profiler combined with his financial circumstances and 
information gathered  through  the paraplanner telephone appointment to determine  
Mr Ms adventurous ATR. 
The critical yield was not relevant as it assumed Mr M would purchase an annuity. It 
was clear that drawdown was more suitable  for Mr M. So, it used the growth rate 
required to reflect this  the lifetime hurdle rate of 6.36%. 
It was Firm Cs responsibility to provide Mr M with investment advice and there was 
nothing to suggest that they would recommend high risk UCIS funds.
It was evident that Mr M required the flexibility of releasing his funds earlier  than the 
scheme retirement age. He also had two other pension  plans  adding  to his 
retirement provisions.  Mr M specified  that he wanted to gain control of the plan and 
maximise the tax-free cash earlier than scheme  retirement age.
As no agreement could be reached  the case was passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
Portafina provided a copy  of the call recording from 2015 after the case  was allocated  to an 
ombudsman. The recording did not form part of the original adjudicators  investigation, but 
has been included  in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Mr M to transfer his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was supposed to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Ms underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant  Portafinas  responsibilities  
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds  transferred, and the money then made available  
for investment. I believe that as Mr Ms financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable,  notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. Suitable advice couldnt, in my view,  be given without thinking about  the 
intended investment.
The regulators position
Ref: DRN01421844Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator  had made its view clear  that it considered in order 
to suitably advise  on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
The regulators 2014 alert added:  
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying  
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Mr M it wasnt  providing  
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled  it to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr M under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Ms funds would be invested.
Ref: DRN01421845COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr M. To achieve  this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina  had to obtain enough 
information from Mr M to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Ms objectives  two of 
which were ownership and control  and a willingness to accept investment risk  and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Ms funds were  going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr M would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind  seem 
reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Ms transferred  funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated 
and able to provide investment advice  with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw 
no issue with this.
Portafina also says that its advisers  carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, including 
background checks on the company  directors, accounts and information  about previous 
complaints. It maintains  that Portafina followed FCA guidelines when only advising on the 
pension transfer  by performing the attitude  to risk assessment. It said Firm C wasnt  bound  
by this assessment  and could have recommended any investments they thought were 
suitable for Mr M. Portafina says it was satisfied Firm C was qualified to provide investment  
advice and the FCA allows for one regulated firm to assess the pension transfer and the 
other to provide  investment  advice.
Portafina hasnt  provided us with evidence of the due diligence  it carried out on Firm C in 
connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina  had carried the general  due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in 
the alerts. The checks it carried out on Firm C werent specific  to the investments envisaged 
for Mr M. I also havent  seen  any evidence  that further checks  were  made by Portafina to 
satisfy itself that the pension transfer  advice  it was giving  to clients was aligned with the 
investment advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part 
of the suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual clients. But I think  it was 
also a reasonable due diligence requirement  brought about by the ongoing relationship it 
Ref: DRN01421846had with Firm C. This wouldve highlighted any patterns  of unsuitable or unaligned advice, 
which could be identified  and addressed.
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ms appointed financial  adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide  suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ms best interests.  And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Ms funds would be invested.  I havent seen anything to suggest that Portafina, at 
any point, checked  to see how Firm C broadly proposed to invest  Mr Ms funds. I believe it 
shouldve, given the unavoidable connection this had to the transfer  it was proposing.  
As part of its duty of care to Mr M I consider that Portafina shouldve  at the very least  asked  
Firm C at the outset for details of the model  portfolios  it adopted for various risk categories.  
And in doing so it ought to have  checked  these lined up with what it considered  to suit each 
risk group. Portafina  didnt actually specify in its suitability report what  it considered  wouldve 
been a suitable investment portfolio for Mr M. But it shouldve  also asked for the details of 
the portfolio Firm C intended for Mr M and the proposed investments. Portafina couldnt 
reasonably assess  the suitability  of the transfer  it was recommending without  doing  so. 
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  makes it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware  of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt  fully 
understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all So, in the absence of 
Portafina knowing the investments Firm C intended  for Mr M, it couldnt provide him with 
suitable advice  to transfer his OPS.
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, a substantial  share  of Mr Ms 
SIPP was invested  in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings  are relevant here. 
Here it said that as well as UCIS only being  eligible for promotion to certain customers  
(generally sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer 
was deemed eligible  for the promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a clients 
exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Ms case, 
over 40% of his SIPP was invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS was suitable  for Mr M at all, 
let alone in the proportion  invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr M had the requisite 
knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of 
investments.
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Ms risk rating as adventurous and will 
explain why later. However,  I think that had appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve 
become apparent something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal  and that the transfer was 
therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr M being  exposed to more  risk than Portafina  
considered appropriate. Portafina  couldve then taken preventative action or at the very least 
made Mr M aware  of the situation so he could, if servicing rights had already been 
transferred to Firm C, sought to take corrective action  himself. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mr M. It shouldve  asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
Ref: DRN01421847advised Mr M that it couldnt  recommend  he transfer away  from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr M against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead  with the 
transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr M when  assessing the suitability of the proposed  transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Mr Ms 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Ms SIPP was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ms funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas  recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important  consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding  this, Im not 
persuaded Mr M wouldve ultimately gone  on to invest as he did.
The advice to transfer 
An OPS  typically has significant benefits  and guarantees.  Giving  up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When  advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
So, the starting point  is that a transfer  wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests  if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr M was 57 years old, employed and in good  health. He 
was a standard retail investor with five years until his OPS  became payable and nine years 
until his intended  retirement age. He had a pension annuity in payment, as well as a pension  
with his current employer,  which was not included  as part of the review.  He had savings of 
£5,000 and no investments. He was a home  owner,  with an outstanding amount on his 
mortgage. 
Before continuing,  I feel it is necessary to highlight a disparity in the income figures provided 
by Mr Ms ceding scheme and those used by Portafina in their suitability report.  
The retirement information provided by his OPS on 22 August 2014 stated that Mr M would 
receive a pension of £4,795 per year without TFC, or £3,780  with the TFC from age 62. 
However, the suitability  report shows he was giving  up a lower guaranteed  income  of £2,762  
from age 62, without TFC. This difference in the level of guaranteed income Mr M was giving 
Ref: DRN01421848up would  have a significant impact on the growth figures needed to match the benefits  being 
given up.
As Portafina has not provided a copy of the full pension transfer  value analysis report  
(TVAS), which we have  requested previously, I cannot say why there is such a difference.  
Whatever the reason, I would be inclined to accept  the projected income figures the ceding  
scheme used over the estimates of a third party. As such, the level of income his deferred 
pension was projected to provide did form a significant share  of his future retirement  income. 
Based on this, I think Portafina  should have recognised  the significance  of Mr Ms OPS  and 
proceeded with caution.
Although I believe  the higher income figure  provided by the ceding scheme is more  accurate, 
for ease  of understanding by all parties I have used the same income and growth  figures 
Portafina relied upon in their suitability report for the rest of my decision. 
The TVAS  report completed  at time showed  that a critical  yield of 14% per year was required 
to match  benefits  from the OPS.  But this was based on the full transfer value being left 
untouched until retirement, when the adviser  was already aware that Mr M intended to take 
his TFC immediately. It also made no allowance for advice, plan or other ongoing charges. 
This meant the growth needed just to match the benefits being  given up was understated. 
Like the adjudicator,  I feel the growth required to provide an increase in benefits  for Mr M 
was too high to make  the transfer viable. 
The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even  if the personal pension had achieved the highest 
maximum growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr M would receive a materially  higher pension 
at retirement as a result  of transferring. This is supported in the suitability report where 
Portafina estimated  that, based  on Mr Ss adventurous  attitude to risk, his personal  pension 
would grow at a rate of 8.27%. 
Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate instead of the critical yield,  
saying it operated under the assumption  that Mr M wouldnt  choose to purchase  an annuity 
and instead preferred to take benefits  via income  drawdown. It argued that, as evidenced in 
the call of 21 April 2015, it knew drawdown was more suitable for what  Mr M was looking to 
achieve with his retirement  planning.  Therefore, the critical  yield was irrelevant. 
I dont agree with Portafinas position here and think it tends to underplay the importance of 
the critical yield and overstates the significance of the hurdle  rate. Portafina did not advise  
on how the funds  were to be invested, therefore  the projections of performance based on its 
own model portfolios  were  not relevant in evaluating  how likely it was Mr M would be able to 
achieve the hurdle rate of 6.36%. As Portafina  did not know how the funds  were  to be 
invested, they were  not in a position to evaluate the likelihood of a growth  rate of 8.27% 
being achieved.
Furthermore, and as the regulator has made plain, when considering whether to make a 
personal recommendation to transfer  away from a defined  benefit scheme, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which  may replicate the benefits being  given up from the defined 
benefits pension  scheme as sufficient in itself (COBS 19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think  its 
important to emphasise that the starting  point for the transfer advice in this case ought  to 
Ref: DRN01421849have been that it was unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G).  So, I think  Portafina  ought to have made 
Mr M aware  that it was in his best interest  to preserve his OPS benefits.
Although the fact-find recorded  that Mr M preferred a drawdown arrangement over an 
annuity and wanted flexibility, I dont think this was explored by Portafina in any meaningful  
sense. Having listened to the call of 24 April 2015,  Portafinas representative led the 
conversation, and in my view talked  up the benefits of transferring his OPS and suggested to 
Mr M that annuities were poor value for money.  At no point did Mr M express in his own 
words why he wouldnt want to purchase  an annuity or why income  drawdown  was his 
preference. Nor was there anything to indicate that he did in fact understand why the hurdle 
rate was the most appropriate method of comparing the OPS and the SIPP  Portafina  was 
recommending. Mr M seemed to simply accept what Portafina was saying.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the consumer should not have been classed as having an 
adventurous ATR. During the call Mr M did say he was willing  to take on the biggest  of risk 
with his pension.  He also said he didnt know he had this pension,  so he might as well play  
with it, which indicates he was willing to expose his pension to additional risk. However, he 
had no investment experience to be able to evaluate what  an adventurous, or high level of 
risk entailed. Additionally,  an acceptance of risk is not the same as an ability to take risk, or 
even proof  of any need to take a risk.
There was no discussion within the call about risk, his experience or expectations of 
performance from the pension. As an inexperienced investor, near to retirement age, with 
limited time and means to replace any losses to the fund  albeit an unexpected  fund  an 
adventurous ATR cannot be justified. Overall, I think a medium  ATR would be in line with the 
level of risk he could accept.
It appears that the paraplanner  was aware  that the level of growth needed to meet  the hurdle 
rate was likely to make the transfer  unsuitable. During the call, Portafinas representative 
stated that the hurdle rate was 6.36% and, our adviser doesnt  usually recommend for 
anything over 6%, but itll be down to him.
However, this was pitched as being  nothing more  than a formality,  rather  than any genuine  
consideration of suitability  as he said:
Even if he doesnt recommend it, he can still do it for you, it just might need  to be on whats 
called an insistent client basis
 He will send  you out a recommendation. If the recommendation is saying no, he doesnt  
recommend it, hell explain why but it therell  be a form in there  to sign to say, I understand 
all that, but I want to go ahead anyway. If you sign that and send it back, or the adviser 
recommends it in the first place, youll receive a report in the post and all the paperwork 
will be in there  to go ahead with it.
If Mr M was going to expose  his funds to a high level of risk in order  to achieve a level of 
growth which Portafina would usually advise  against, there would need to be a compelling 
reason to do so. I have  not seen evidence  that this was the case.
Although Mr M had a use for the money  provided  by his TFC, spending it on house  repairs, 
this alone is not sufficient  justification for the transfer. There  was no discussion of using 
alternative sources, such as savings  or his disposable income of £300 a month  and it was 
Ref: DRN014218410not established how much  the work  actually  cost, although it was known that he did not need 
all of the cash. 
When asked if he wanted to take the TFC cash early, Mr Ms response indicated  that he had 
not given this matter  any particular  thought, saying: 
Yeah, I might as well, looks like I can use it, I dunno. Funnily enough  Ive just spent a 
fortune on the house. Im going  to have to have  a new roof. So thatll  help for that and 
whats left over Ill put towards  a car or something  like that.
In my view, the TFC appears to have been  a nice-to-have  for the consumer, rather  than a 
genuine need and any recommendation about  transferring should have reflected this. 
Furthermore, if Mr M really did want to access as much money as possible, then he would 
have been best served  by leaving his pension with his OPS. After transferring, Mr M was 
able to take 25% of his CETV of £43,525 and could therefore expect to get approximately 
£10,881. The suitability  report  stated that the TFC payable from his OPS  was £13,675. He 
would therefore  get more  money by staying  with his OPS, although he would have  to wait a 
further five years for this. The benefit of receiving an extra  £3,000 in five years  would be the 
consumers own decision and arguments  can be made either way about  how appealing this 
may or may not have  been.
However, as I have said earlier, the OPS figures used in the suitability report  are incorrect.  
The retirement information provided by the ceding scheme stated that Mr M could actually 
take TFC of £21,577. This is almost double what he would get by transferring  and while this 
would only be available from age 62 and 6 months,  there was no discussion at all about the 
benefits of waiting until this time in order to get both a higher tax free lump sum, as well as a 
guaranteed income for the rest of his life.
So, I think Mr M wouldve been better off financially by waiting until his scheme retirement  
age before taking  the benefits from his OPS. I dont think he had any real need for the TFC 
at that time, certainly not to the extent  that he had to give up a much larger  payment  in five 
years time.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability, and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have recommended the transfer  for the reasons  already given. 
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina,  Mr M would have 
gone ahead  with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances  in 
this case, I dont believe he would. Theres nothing to suggest that he was seriously  
considering transferring out of his OPS prior to being referred to Portafina  for a pension  
review. I appreciate that Mr M had only recently become aware of the existence of this 
pension and in some senses viewed it as a windfall. That does not change  the fact that 
Portafina still had an obligation to make  a suitable recommendation based on his needs and 
circumstances. It is clear  to me from the call recording that Mr M had not given any serious 
thought about what he wanted to do with his pension, or the TFC, and had no fixed opinion 
about these issues.
Had Mr M been appropriately advised  and made  aware of how much  more he would receive  
in the long run by waiting until his scheme retirement age, I think  its more  likely that he 
would have chosen to stay with his OPS.
Ref: DRN014218411As a professional adviser  which,  unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr M from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept its 
possible Mr M may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think,  at the very least,  if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made him think  about things. 
Alternatively, had Mr M proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve  discharged  its 
professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Mr M was acting against the advice  hed 
been given or would have  done  so. Furthermore,  as noted previously, Mr M was essentially 
told that there was no issue  with proceeding with the transfer on an insistent  client  basis  and 
it was implied that any recommendation  against  transferring would be due to an arbitrary 
adherence to an interest rate, rather than because it was actually unsuitable for him.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr M are as a result  of the inappropriate 
advice provided  by Portafina. Had it not been  for this unsuitable advice,  I dont believe he 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  of his OPS or invested such a large  share of his 
fund in UCIS. 
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mr Ms 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mr Ms losses.  
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because  Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr M to Portafina. Portafina advised 
Mr M to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits 
to be transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mr M to invest a significant share of his 
SIPP funds  in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding  that it could  
reasonably limit its advice  to just the switch  and the SIPP  was wrong;  it needed to consider 
the proposed  investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr M on the investments. It was 
only as a result of Portafinas involvement  that Mr M switched  the funds held in his OPS to 
the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant  on 
the funds being transferred over first; if that hadnt happened, Mr M couldnt have invested 
as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont  pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction,  and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses.  In Mr Ms case  the FSCS  has 
confirmed that as he has a complaint against  Portafina, its unable to consider his claim. This 
means that apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina could risk leaving Mr M out of 
pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation.  My 
starting point as to causation is that Portafina  gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for 
the losses Mr M suffered  in transferring his OPS benefits to the SIPP and investing as he 
did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong  in law or irrational but reflects the facts  of the case  and my 
Ref: DRN014218412view of the fair and reasonable  position.  So, overall, I think  apportioning responsibility  to 
Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for Portafina to put Mr M, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the OPS.
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress  for unsuitable DB pension  transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision. If this is completed 
before publication of the FCAs intended amendments to the guidance, Portafina must re-run  
the calculation  within a month  of the amended guidance being  published   ensuring that any 
shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly  made  up to Mr M. Portafina need 
only re-run the calculation once, to take account  of amendments currently  planned  by the 
FCA. Portafina does  not subsequently need  to recalculate following any further amendments  
the regulator might later make.
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr M in 
this case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P).  
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P  
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Ref: DRN014218413Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must 
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes 
Portafina to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My aim is to return Mr M to the position  he would have been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated  where  investments are illiquid  (meaning  they cannot  be readily 
sold on the open market),  as their value cant be determined. That appears to be the case 
here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should  include anything Portafina  has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina  asks Mr M to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
If Portafina had given suitable  advice  Mr M wouldnt have  the SIPP. So, the SIPP only exists  
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further  SIPP fees to be 
prevented, the investments need  to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this 
might be achieved by Portafina taking over the investments.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties,  I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Mr M an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide  a reasonable  period for the parties  to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
Portafina should also pay Mr M £300  for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr M for 
the unsuitable advice and the disruption  to his retirement planning.
Determination and money award: I intend to require Portafina  to pay Mr M the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps  above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portafina
to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I can only require Portafina to
pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Ref: DRN014218414Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina pays Mr M the balance. I additionally  recommend any interest  calculated  as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money  award is binding on Portafina. My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina. Further,  its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Portafina LLP should provide details  of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0142184