K820x#14Complaint
Mr J and Miss P complain  about  the sale of a solar panel system. In summary, they say 
Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook),  as the provider of a loan used to fund the 
installation of a solar panel system on Mr J and Miss Ps home, is responsible  for 
misrepresentations they say were made by the salesperson from the solar panel business 
which sold them the solar  panel system. Mr J and Miss P say they would never  have agreed 
to take out the loan and have the system installed,  if it had not been misrepresented  to them. 
Mr J and Miss P are represented by a law firm (the representative). 
Background
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020. That decision is attached  and sets out the 
background to the complaint in detail  so I will not repeat the background here. 
My provisional conclusion was that Mr J and Miss Ps complaint should not be upheld. I 
explained I had not seen  sufficient evidence to conclude the solar panel  business 
misrepresented the solar  system to Mr J and Miss P. 
Shawbrook accepted my findings and said it had nothing further to add. 
The representative did not accept my findings.  It said, in summary:  
The handwritten  notes made by Mr J and Miss P at the time of the sale of the solar 
system record  the figures verbally represented  to them by the salesperson  from the 
solar panel business.  These figures  were  intended to induce Mr J and Miss P to buy 
the solar system as they show  the income  from the solar system  is sufficient  to meet  
the cost of the loan  they supported  the salespersons repeated assurances that the 
system was self-funding. 
A further  handwritten note (a copy of this was provided with the response), made by 
the salesperson  shows Mr J and Miss P were  told they would be able to repay  their 
loan agreement within 7.5 to 10 years, rather than the full 15 year term. Clearly  it 
would be impossible  for this to be the case if the income generated by the system  did 
not exceed the monthly cost. 
Based  on its experience it is regular practice for salespersons  to make verbal 
representations which deviate from the documentation  something  we have 
accepted many  times in other decisions.  
The handwritten  notes by the salesperson  clearly show the salesperson used their 
own figures during  the sales meeting, instead of those provided in the 
documentation. 
Mr J and Miss P placed little reliance on the documentation when entering  into the 
transaction because  the salespersons verbal misrepresentations were so 
convincing.
Mr J and Miss P had no reason to believe that the assurances they had been given 
during the course  of the sales meeting were inaccurate. They simply trusted  the 
salesperson and the constant assurances  that the solar  panel system would be 
entirely self-funding.
Ref: DRN01458002It does not agree  that the graphs on pages 6 and 9 of the quote I refer to in my 
provisional decision do not amount to an untrue statement of fact. 
Mr J and Miss P were  aware that they were entering into a loan agreement  for 15 
years, and were  then given a document which states that the estimated payback time 
is 14 years, which would be supportive of the salespersons verbal representations 
that the system  would  be self-funding. The documentation  reaffirms that the system 
will have  covered its own costs before the expiry of the loan.
We have upheld  a number of cases where consumers have been mis-sold their solar 
panel system on the basis that they were told that the system would be self-funding  
over the term. I should confirm why this complaint is so substantially different from 
these other cases that a different  conclusion has been reached. 
Greater consideration should also be given to the solar panel  industry  as a whole. In 
its view, this matter is not an isolated  complaint but part of a much larger systemic 
problem. It has hundreds of complaints on its files about this solar panel  business, 
which suggests a widespread issue. The number  of complaints containing similar 
allegations involving  this solar panel business should also be taken into consideration 
when I make my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as those set out in my provisional decision. That decision is attached  
and, to confirm, forms part of this decision. So I will not repeat my provisional findings  here,  
and will instead focus on the points raised  by the representative following my provisional  
decision. 
The representatives position, in short, is that verbal misrepresentations were made by the 
solar panel  business to Mr J and Miss P, and they relied on those  verbal misrepresentations 
rather than the documents  I referred  to in my provisional decision. The representative says 
the handwritten  note by Mr J and Miss P I referred to in my provisional  decision and a further 
handwritten note it has highlighted, made  by the salesperson, are evidence of the verbal 
misrepresentations made to Mr J and Miss P. 
The representative further argues that the documentation  in particular pages 6 and 9 of the 
quote - did contain  untrue  statements of fact, which supported the verbal  misrepresentations 
made. 
I have given careful consideration to these  points. 
I dont agree with the representatives interpretation  of the salespersons  note it highlights  in 
its response. 
The figures the note initially  sets out are the approximate cost of the system  (£8,265) and 
then the approximate total cost of the loan (£16,160). The difference between these two 
figures is then written.  The note then records that if Mr J and Miss P overpay by £45 a month 
the loan will be repaid twice as fast (i.e. over 7.5 years) and if they overpay by £22.50  a 
month the loan will be repaid  1.5 times as fast (i.e. over 10 years).  And to the left of this 
Ref: DRN01458003there are some calculations  which appear  to have been made to arrive at these numbers 
(although this isnt completely clear, as its simply a long list of figures,  none  of which are 
labelled). 
I acknowledge that the figures of £45 and £22.50  do not feature in the other documentation. 
But the key figures   the cost of the solar system  and the cost of the loan - are consistent 
with the other documentation. And the note does not show  the income from the solar system 
is sufficient to meet the cost of the loan. The note only suggests that Mr J and Miss P were  
told they could  make overpayments to the loan and, if they did, the loan term would be 
reduced. That, in itself,  is not an untrue statement of fact. 
I acknowledge the salesperson may have said the overpayments could or would be funded  
by the returns paid by the solar system. But the note needs  to be viewed the context of the 
other available evidence. There is nothing in any of the documentation  produced  by the solar  
panel business to show Mr J and Miss P were told the system would produce returns  which 
would fund overpayments of £45 or £22.50  a month   and there  is no clear basis on which 
such a claim could  have  been made. The overpayment  figures  of £45 or £22.50  a month  are 
also inconsistent with Mr J and Miss Ps own notes  of their understanding,  which refer to a 
return of £99 a month  from the system (i.e. about £10 a month more than the loan 
repayments).  
So I am not persuaded the note is evidence of untrue statements of fact being made to 
induce Mr J and Miss P to buy the solar  system.
I remain of the view that the handwritten  note made  by Mr J and Miss P is not sufficient 
evidence of a misrepresentation having  been  made.  On balance, taking account of the 
available evidence, Im not persuaded that the salesman did represent  that the system would 
return £99 a month. The quote  produced by the solar panel  business refers to an estimated 
first year income  of £246.45 and total income  and savings of £433.99  around a third of the 
return noted by Mr J and Miss P. So I do not think it is plausible that such  a marked 
departure from all the figures quoted in the documentation would have been made by the 
salesperson in their verbal representations.  
I think there is some tension between  the points the representative has made about verbal 
representations and those it has made about  the quote. On the one hand  it is said Mr J and 
Miss P relied on verbal representations but on the other it is said they relied on selected  
parts of the documentation i.e. only those that, in the representatives  view,  support the 
verbal representations it says were made  to Mr J and Miss P. However, setting that aside, I 
am not persuaded to depart from my provisional  decision that the quote did not make  a 
misrepresentation. 
The 14 year payback  time is calculated as follows: 
Total income and savings over 20 years  £15,127.26
Less cost of system (does  not include finance charge) £8,264.55
Estimated profit from scheme (does  not include finance charge) £6,862.71
I remain of the view this is not an untrue statement of fact. The quote shows  the 14 year 
payback time is calculated without taking  account of the finance charge (i.e. the loan). I do 
Ref: DRN01458004remain of the view this is misleading  as the loan cost is clearly a critical part of the overall 
picture and should  not therefore be excluded from this illustration. But it is not untrue. 
Furthermore, the salespersons note provided by the representative suggests the cost of the 
loan (and in particular the cost over and above  the cost of the system) was discussed with 
Mr J and Miss P. Mr J and Miss P also signed the loan agreement  on the same day as they 
signed the quote. So I think  they were aware of the cost of the loan. 
If Mr J and Miss P did read at least some parts of the quote, and place some reliance on it, 
that supports  the conclusion no misrepresentation was made, as the quote does not say the 
solar system will be self-funding. And the understanding  Mr Js and Miss Ps handwritten  
note records cannot be reconciled with the quote. The monthly figures  written on the note of 
£63, £36 and £99 dont feature in any of the documentation  and, as mentioned, the figures  
which do feature are markedly different. 
I note the representatives general  points about other  complaints  which  have been upheld,  
and solar panel systems  sales practices generally. I also note its request that I confirm  why I 
have reached a different view here to that we have reached in other cases. 
I have reached the view there was no misrepresentation  in this case  as there is insufficient 
evidence to show there was a misrepresentation in this particular case. And I need to make  
a decision based  on the facts of the particular case. The fact some other complaints about 
solar panel  system sales which feature different evidence have been  upheld does not mean  I 
should set aside the evidence in this case and conclude it should  be upheld on the basis that 
those different complaints were upheld. For the reasons I have  given here and in my 
provisional decision I am satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome in this particular case is 
that the complaint should not be upheld. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my provisional decision is not to uphold Mr J and Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01458005Copy provisional decision 
Background 
Mr J and Miss P had a solar panel system fitted to their home in June 2015. This happened after they 
had been visited by a salesperson from a solar panel business and, during that visit, had agreed to 
have the system installed, with the cost being covered by a loan provided by Shawbrook. 
Mr J and Miss P signed an installation agreement for the solar panel system  and a loan agreement  
with Shawbrook on 24 June  2015. The loan was to be repaid  in monthly instalments of £89.76, over 
15 years. 
The complaint was initially  made directly  to Shawbrook by Mr J and Miss P. They  later asked a law 
firm to represent them  (the representative)  in April 2016. The representative  sent a letter of 
complaint to Shawbrook. The main points made in that letter, in summary, were:
The sales  presentation  featured a number  of misrepresentations. The main  misrepresentation 
which induced Mr J and Miss P was that the system would be self-funding i.e. it would  not 
cost them anything. 
Mr J and Miss P were told the Feed In Tariff (FIT) payments they would receive for the 
electricity generated  by the system would be more  than sufficient  to cover the cost of 
purchasing the system.  
Mr J and Miss P were also told they would  make significant savings on their electricity bills, 
which could be used to pay off their loan sooner if they chose  to do this. 
A note made  by Mr J and Miss P when  the salesperson from the solar panel business visited 
them noted they were  promised that the approx £90 per month they would be paying for the 
loan) would be covered by 80% savings  on their electricity  bill (£36) and the £63 they would 
receive (per month) from the FIT payments.  Anything else they produced from this could be 
used to pay off the finance  quicker, including  the Export  Tariff (another type of payment made  
for the electricity generated by the panels), which could  help pay off the finance in 7 years 
rather than 15 years.
The promised  electricity bill savings  and FIT payments have not materialised.  
The salesperson advised Mr J and Miss P they had 'nothing to lose'. They were  also told that 
the FIT amount was going  to be reduced by the government and therefore if they wanted  to 
get the best deal possible they needed  to sign up that day so they could register for the FIT at 
the current rate.
Due to the cost of the loan, the real cost of the system is £16,156.80. The salesperson never  
explained the cost of the loan and the impact that this would have.
The solar panel business breached a number of clauses of the Renewable  Energy Consumer 
Code (RECC) during  the sale of the solar  panel system to Mr J and Miss P.  
The representations made by the salesperson were not made  on reasonable grounds  he 
did not believe them to be true. 
Under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) the misrepresentations were  made  on 
behalf of Shawbrook by the salesperson, and Mr J and Miss P are entitled to rescind the 
credit agreement and claim damages. 
Ref: DRN01458006Under Section 75 of the CCA Shawbrook is liable  for the loss suffered by Mr J and Miss P as 
a result of the salespersons misrepresentations.
There may have been an unfair relationship between Shawbrook and the solar panel 
business. The solar  panel  business was incentivised  to sell the solar system  and the loan but 
did not disclose  this to Mr J and Miss P. This provides another basis upon which  Mr J and 
Miss P should be entitled  to rescind  the agreement. 
Shawbrook did not uphold the complaint. It said, in summary: 
The solar panel business provided  Mr J and Miss P with a Contract which  detailed the 
estimated returns they were likely  to receive  from having the solar  panels. This set out the 
total income and savings  and the estimated  payback time. This should  have  made it clear  to 
them that the system  was not self-funding. 
The documentation provided  makes it clear what  the cost of the system was. The contract  
clearly states that the system cost quoted does not include the finance charge. 
All the potential income and savings  to be made, and how these are calculated,  are clearly 
set out on the contract. 
There is no evidence to suggest Mr J and Miss P were told that the system would be self-
funding or that the electricity generated and income would  cover the costs of the system 
immediately. 
Where the solar  panel business stated that a solar system is self-funding,  this means  it is self-
funding over time and that is made clear by the figures in the contract. The system will have 
paid for itself at some point and then generate income and more savings  thereafter. If a 
system was purchased  with a finance option then naturally it will take longer to pay for itself.
Mr J and Miss P signed the contract, acknowledging  the information  it contained. 
The solar panel business denies it has breached any sections  of the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code.
The documents  submitted to us by Mr J and Miss  P.
Mr and Mrs J have provided a handwritten  note, which  they say was made when the salesperson 
from the solar panel business visited them.  The note includes the following:
£90 a month
Paid by 
Generation tariff £63 
Savings on elec £36 (if elec bill reduced by 80%)
                          ___
                          £99
+ export @ 5p kwh
Mr and Mrs J also provided:
Statements, showing  the total amount  of FIT payments made  to them.   
Ref: DRN01458007Two emails  from Shawbrook sent on 24 June 2015, attaching the credit agreement, Written 
Adequate Explanation and pre contract information. 
An email from the solar panel business dated  7 July 2015,  attaching completion  and warranty 
documents. 
The representative has provided a summary of a Renewable Energy Consumer  Code (RECC)  Non-
Compliance Panel Hearing which took place on 4 December 2013, and found  the solar panel 
business to be in breach  of several sections of the Renewable  Energy Consumer  Code. 
The documents  Shawbrook says  were provided to Mr J and Miss P.
When making its initial submissions to us, Shawbrook  provided copies of the following documents, 
which it says were seen by Mr and Mrs J at the point of sale: 
A 25 page document called Your  Personal Solar Quotation (Ill refer to this as the quote).  
This consists of a contract and a set of illustrations  for Mr and Mrs Js system  which  detail, 
amongst other things, the cost, the predicted monthly savings and returns  over a 20 year 
period, a system performance illustration, a system analysis and a degradation illustration. 
This document has been signed by Mr J and Miss P. 
A 27 page presentation called  Introducing  Better Energy
A 18 page document detailing the survey carried  out on Mr J and Miss Ps home, when the 
salesperson from the solar panel  business visited them. 
An e-signature  document pack for the loan.  
Further information  provided by Shawbrook 
In support of its position Shawbrook  also provided a background  dossier which contained  evidence  
from the solar panel business about its sales practices, its engagement  with various regulatory  bodies  
and notes from three court  cases concerning legal  claims  brought on a similar basis to this complaint, 
where the judge found  that there had been no misrepresentation by the solar panel business. A copy 
of the dossier forms  part of the complaint  file I have considered. 
Shawbrook also provided a copy of a report by the Energy Performance Validation Scheme (EPVS) it 
referred to in its response to the complaint. The report details a review of the sale of Mr and Mrs Js 
solar panel  system. This report had been commissioned by the solar panel business.  
Mr J and Miss Ps recollections of the sale of the solar panel system  
Mr J, on behalf of him and Miss P said: 
The hand-written notes are from what the salesman told us. We signed the contract  due to the fact 
that the salesman was very persistent; and we assumed that what he told us would be reflected in the 
contract we signed. The salesman also applied pressure by informing us we had to sign up as soon 
as possible; otherwise we would not be eligible for any government  grants (which we never  received 
anyway). He showed us lots of statistics  from his laptop to back up the claims he was making - this 
made it all the more  plausible.
Our investigators view 
Our investigator concluded Mr J and Miss Ps complaint should not be upheld. She said, in summary: 
Ref: DRN01458008Shawbrook has provided several documents it says would have been given and explained to 
Mr J and Miss P at the time they agreed to purchase the solar  panels. These documents  
include a copy of the sales  presentation  and a copy of the personalised  quote.
The sales  presentation  explains the benefits of the panels and she did not think  there was 
anything within it to suggest  that the solar system would be self-funding.
The quote  is a twenty-five-page document which had been  signed by Mr J and Miss P. 
Shawbrook says this was sent to Mr J and Miss P by email on 24 June 2015.  She hadnt seen 
evidence to show  this email was received by Mr J and Miss P but theyd confirmed they 
received a hard copy of the quotation. So she was satisfied they received it. 
The quote  confirms  the return the system would pay in the first year (£433.99). It also 
confirms that the estimated payback time would  be fourteen years and underneath  this says 
the estimated payback  time is based on cash purchase. Note: the payback time will fluctuate 
dependant on any finance taken against the system. 
The graph in the quote titled earnings and savings against  monthly payments year one. 
shows the same  continuous  monthly  repayment  of £89.76  as the amount Mr J and Miss P 
needed to pay each month, represented by a straight  orange line. Underneath  in blue, it 
shows the combined solar electricity savings and income which varies from month to month. 
This graph was clear  in showing that for each month in year one, the solar  system wouldnt  
generate enough income to meet the monthly repayments. 
There was a system analysis  in the quote.  This confirms that the total FIT income in year 
one would  be £246.45, and this is made  up of £207.50 generation  tariff and £38.95 export 
tariff. It then goes on to work  out the FIT income  over twenty years and confirms that the 
average annual FIT income would  be £339.67.
The quote  also suggests  that the estimated electricity  savings in year one would be £187.54 
and the average electricity savings  per year over twenty years  would be £455.67.
The quote  contained  a section called putting  it all together which  suggests that the total 
income and savings in year one would be £433.99. It later goes on to work out the total 
income and savings over twenty years, minus the cost of the system  to calculate  the 
estimated profit  from the system  and its estimated payback time. For both the cost of the 
system and the estimated profit, it states  in brackets does not include finance charge.  
She thought this information was clear in confirming  that the figures dont take into account  
the cost of the finance, and so the estimated  payback time of fourteen years is based on the 
cash price only.
The table detailing the 180 month repayment option  was clear in confirming that each month 
there would  be shortfall between the monthly loan repayments and any benefits  theyd 
receive from your solar panel system. This shortfall continues past year fifteen and so it 
shows that the system would not be self-funding at any point during  the loan team.  Mr J and 
Miss P signed directly  underneath this table.
The loan agreement was signed on the same day. It confirms the total cash  price  of the 
panels as £8,264.55, the total charge  for credit as £7,892.25 and the total amount repayable 
as £16,156.80. This was to be repaid  by Mr J and Miss P over fifteen years with monthly 
repayments of £89.76.
The figures Mr J and Miss P had written down  at the point  of sale and which  were also 
discussed with the representative are different to the figures that appear in the contract. She 
acknowledged Mr J and Miss P said they had signed the contract because the salesperson 
Ref: DRN01458009was very persistent, and they assumed that what hed previously told them would be reflected  
in the contract.
She had carefully  considered what Mr J and Miss P had said.  But she thought  there was 
enough written information  about the system to indicate that it wouldnt be self-funding, and 
so she thought  it would have been reasonable for them to have questioned this either  during 
the sale or shortly afterwards. Overall, she did think that the written information  given to Mr J 
and Miss P about your system was clear  in confirming that the system wouldnt be self-
funding.
Mr J and Miss P had said that the solar system was installed shortly after theyd signed the 
paperwork and so they didnt  get the cooling off period  they were entitled to. But they signed 
to confirm that they wanted the panels to be installed  immediately and that because  of this the 
14 day cooling off period will be lost. So she was unable to conclude the solar panel business 
had done anything wrong here as Mr J and Miss P had requested for the system  to be 
installed immediately. 
Responses to the investigators view
Shawbrook accepted the investigators view. 
The representative said Mr J and Miss P did not accept  the view. It asked us to consider the following: 
Regardless of what the quote said, Mr J and Miss P relied on the verbal  representations 
made by the salesperson at the sales meeting. This is evidenced by the handwritten note Mr 
J and Miss P made of the savings  the salesperson told them they would make on their energy  
bills and from the FIT. Clearly, with a £36 saving  on energy bills and £63 payment from the 
FIT generation  tariff this would more than cover the £90 per month loan repayment. 
The salesperson pressured Mr J and Miss P to sign up that day so they could take advantage 
of what  he termed a "government subsidy"  which they would  receive in addition to the energy 
bill savings and FIT payments (referenced as the export tariff in the handwritten note).   This 
made them believe that they would  be receiving more than enough  to cover the monthly 
repayments, and the excess could be used  to pay off the loan early.  They  contend that if they 
had realised during  the sales meeting  that the system would in fact cost them  money they 
would never  had proceeded with the purchase as it would not made economical sense to do 
so.  Their finances were  already stretched  as they had just had a baby, but the 
salesperson continued  to assure  them that they would save money  and he was doing them a 
favour.  
The salesperson did not take Mr J and Miss P through the calculations  in the quote, rather  he 
represented that the returns from the energy savings, FIT payments and government subsidy 
would cover  the monthly finance  repayments.  Mr J and Miss P accepted this oral explanation 
and had no reason to believe that the salesperson would  mislead them.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations 
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 and Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act, which 
provides protection  for consumers for goods  or services  bought using credit. Section 75 states:
" If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
Ref: DRN014580010misrepresentation or breach of contract,  he shall have  a like claim  against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly  and severally liable  to the debtor..
As Mr J and Miss P paid for the solar panel  system  through a fixed sum loan,  Section 75 applies  to 
this transaction.
This means  Mr J and Miss P can claim against  Shawbrook - the creditor - for any misrepresentation  or 
breach of contract by the solar panel business in the same way they could have claimed against the 
solar panel  business itself. So I have taken Section 75 into account  when deciding  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
Section 56 is also relevant.  This says that any negotiations between Mr J and Miss P and the solar  
panel business as the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the solar panel business as 
agent for Shawbrook. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition  of a misrepresentation  as an untrue statement  
of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces that second party to 
enter the contract, thereby  causing them loss.  
Does the evidence show  there was a misrepresentation? 
The available  evidence shows the handwritten  note Mr J and Miss P have provided is clearly not an 
accurate reflection of things.  The system was not predicted to pay a generation tariff of £63 a month, 
pay a further return through an export tariff, and generate £36 of savings on the electricity bill each 
month. What I need  to consider is whether what Mr J and Miss P noted arose  as a result of a 
misrepresentation (as defined above)  by the solar  panel business.  
I do not doubt  Mr J and Miss P have tried to recall the sale of the solar panel system to the best of 
their ability. And I have carefully considered the handwritten note they made. But I must  consider that 
alongside the other contemporaneous evidence  available.  
The quote
I am satisfied  Mr J and Miss P saw the quote at the time of the salespersons visit to their home.  The 
quote has been signed by them, and dated with the date of the sales meeting. I think  it unlikely the 
salesperson would have created the quote but not then shared it. And it is difficult to see how the 
sales presentation could have been  conducted without significant  reliance  being placed on the quote  
 which looks to have been created with the sale process in mind . 
Page 6 of the quote shows two graphs, and explains they explain  your estimated returns: 
I think  it is misleading for the second graph to illustrate  the average in the way it does,  as it suggests  
that the average return occurs uniformly over the 20 year period, rather  than being  the product of 
lower figures in the early years and higher  ones  in the latter  years. It would  have been more accurate 
to show  the actual  average monthly return by year so that Mr J and Miss P could have been in no 
doubt what their returns over a 20 year period would have been in reality. However, it does explain  
that the illustrated return does not incorporate the cost of the system  or any finance charges.  
Also the earnings and savings graph clearly shows there would be an overall cost in year one  it 
shows the savings  and income illustrated by the blue line and the loan payments as the orange line. 
Ref: DRN014580011This offers a clear illustration  of the loan costs being greater than the returns and savings which  would 
be generated  by the system, and of the total income and savings being  variable. 
Page 8 of the quote describes a total income  in year 1. But it does not describe this as a total return, 
and it is clear it illustrates the FIT only  not the overall  position: 
I think  it is clear from this that the total income generated by the system would fall a long way short  of 
the loan repayments,  in year 1. 
Page 9 includes  the following  table, which draws together what  is set out over the preceding  pages:  
I think  a table  titled  putting it all together ought  to have included the cost of the loan. And I think the 
estimated payback time should  also have explained this would be longer if a loan was taken  to fund 
the system,  But, when viewed in the context  of the overall  table, and of the proceeding pages, I do not 
think it amounts  to a untrue of the facts. 
I note on page 2 of the quote there is a further reference  to the estimated payback time:
That explains  that timescale is based on a cash purchase and that it will fluctuate depending on any 
finance taken. I think this ought ideally to have said the timescale would  increase but, overall, I do not 
[think] there was a untrue [statement] of the facts  [typos corrected] . The estimated  payback time was 
14 years, if the loan costs  were not taken  into account, and it is explained  this will change  if loan costs 
are taken into account. And, as noted above,  the graphs on page 6 explain the illustrated returns  do 
not incorporate finance  charges. 
Pages 10 to 11 of the quote include the following table,  which is highlighted (there  are two others 
which are not highlighted,  one for 60 months, one for 120 months)   assumedly as its the one which 
is relevant to Mr J and Miss P: 
Mr J and Miss P have signed immediately  below  this and, below their signatures,  the following is 
written: 
Representative example   cash price  £8600; no deposit;  interest rate of 9.5% per annum  variable 
(fixed for first 60 months);  total charge  for credit  £7565.80, total amount repayable £16,165.80.  180 
monthly instalments of £89.81. Representative APR 9.9% subject to status.
I think  it is clear from this that the solar system is not anticipated to be self-funding at any point during 
the loan term i.e. that there would be a negative difference between the monthly loan repayments and 
the return  generated by the system throughout the term of the loan. 
So, overall,  I am satisfied the quote does not contain any untrue statements of fact and therefore 
cannot be considered a misrepresentation.  
Sales presentation 
I have also considered the sales  presentation submitted  by Shawbrook. This is a general  document, 
the purpose of which appears to have been to serve as an introduction to the solar  panel  systems  
offered by the solar  panel  business. 
At the outset the presentation says: 
Ref: DRN014580012What are we going to do for you today!
Introduce you to better energy.
Assess your requirements,  & do a suitability  check,  so you know what products are available.  
Give you a full explanation of the products & a full explanation of the system. 
We will explain any returns, savings & returns on your investment. 
The presentation  then sets out the benefits of using the solar panel  business, the reasons for saving 
energy, the details and benefits of the voluntary  trade body the solar  panel  business belonged to, date 
on energy use, a general explanation of solar panel systems and details of the products the solar  
panel business used  when installing the system. 
I have carefully considered  the contents  of the presentation.  I do not think  it carries as much weight as 
the quote,  as it is not personal to Mr J and Miss P. But it does not, in my view, contain anything which 
amounts to a misrepresentation. In particular,  I note it does not contain anything  which suggests  the 
system would  be self-funding for those  who finance  it using  a loan, or that returns  will be sufficient  to 
effectively reduce the term of any loan taken. The wording at the outset also suggests  the quote 
would form a central part of the sales discussion  which  supports my view that it is unlikely the quote 
did not feature  heavily  in the sales meeting. 
Survey 
The survey  shows that, as part of the sales meeting, the salesperson from the solar  panel  business  
gathered information about Mr J and Miss Ps home, and assessed which system  would be suitable 
for it and how it would  be installed. It shows questions were also asked about how much energy  Mr J 
and Miss P used. 
The survey  is consistent with the quote  the system cost it calculates  is that shown in the quotes,  as 
are the anticipated returns. I note it was signed by Mr P and Miss J directly under the section where it 
confirms the return from the FIT rate was £207.50 + £38.95 (the latter  being  the export  rate) in year 1, 
and the anticipated electricity savings  were £187.54 in year 1. So I think  this is further evidence of 
engagement with the quote  at the sales meeting. And I do not think  there is anything  in the survey 
document which misrepresents things. 
I appreciate Mr J and Miss P feel a misrepresentation  was made  verbally, and that their note is 
evidence of this. But, in the circumstances, the note is not sufficient  to persuade me there was a 
misrepresentation. There is no obvious connection  between the numbers written  in the note and the 
numbers and general information shown in any of the other evidence from the time.  I think it unlikely 
the salesperson  would have  made statements  which were such an obvious departure  from all of the 
documentation. He would have been  aware  that even  a cursory glance  at the documentation would  
have made  it clear the system was not anticipated to be self-funding,  and there was no basis on 
which the numbers on the note could be linked  to any of the numbers on the quote and other 
documents. 
So, whilst the note does  show Mr J and Miss P clearly misunderstood things, I am not persuaded, on 
the basis  of the evidence currently available, that misunderstanding arose as a result of a 
misrepresentation by the solar panel business. And so there is no basis on which I can uphold  Mr J 
and Miss Ps complaint against Shawbrook. I know this will disappoint Mr J and Miss P. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  my provisional decision is not to uphold Mr J and Miss Ps complaint. 
Ref: DRN0145800