K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Ald Automotive Limited applied unfair charges at the end of her hire 
agreement. She wants the charges waived.
background
Ms S tells us that two months after the termination of her agreement she received an invoice 
for £350 in respect of a charge applied as the vehicle hadnt been serviced. She says she 
hadnt been made aware of the charge as it was tucked away in the terms and conditions. 
Ms S mentions that Ald sent MOT reminders so she questions why it didnt also send service 
reminders.
Ald said its terms  and conditions stated the vehicle needed to be serviced in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations. This was to ensure the vehicle performed correctly and 
the terms of the manufacturers warranty werent  breached. It said it didnt send service 
reminders as, unlike an MOT, service  intervals  didnt necessarily fall on an anniversary. It 
said that the charge had been fairly  and correctly  applied.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said the terms of the 
agreement clearly stated  the vehicle needed to be serviced and the service  booklet 
stamped. And she thought it was the customers responsibility to check documents before 
signing them.
Ms S didnt agree and said she felt the business  had a responsibility to send reminders and 
do more to make customers aware. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms S would  be disappointed to learn of the charge some weeks  after 
the hire period had ended. And I can see it would be an unwelcome  expense.
I accept that it can be tedious to fully read the terms and conditions of an agreement  and 
there were at least six pages in this case.  But having said that, I also dont think that where a 
customer doesnt read them this should  mean  a business isnt able to apply them.
Terms and conditions requiring hire vehicles to be maintained in good  condition and serviced 
in accordance with the manufacturers  recommendations are pretty  standard  across the 
sector. And Id expect most motorists to accept that regular servicing was a necessary 
element of keeping  a vehicle reliable. It can also affect the value of a vehicle if it comes to be 
resold. Whilst this was only a hire agreement part of the hire costs reflect the anticipated 
depreciation in the value of the vehicle. And its likely the value  of the vehicle  will fall with 
increased depreciation if there isnt a full service history.
I take Ms Ss point about the benefits of reminder letters. But Im not the industry regulator 
so its not for me to tell a business how to manage its contacts with its customers. And of 
course as theres  so many different terms and conditions it would be unduly  burdensome  to 
have to issue reminders about all of them.
Ref: DRN04295262In summary,  the terms and conditions of the agreement set out the necessary servicing 
requirements. I cant see the vehicle was ever serviced during the three year hire period.
In those circumstances I think Ald is entitled to apply the charges which I think  are fair and 
reasonable.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Ms S Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0429526