K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt  contact her when her interest  only mortgage 
ended. As a result, she paid interest on the debt for another  four years. She asks that these 
payments are refunded, with interest.
background 
Mrs A had an interest only mortgage  with Lloyds which  ended  in 2014.  Mrs A says she was 
unsure who her mortgage lender  was: she hadnt  had a statement for some time and when 
she visited her Lloyds  branch she was told the mortgage wasnt  with them.  So she decided  
to wait for the lender  to contact her. She says Lloyds didnt contact her about repaying the 
mortgage until August  2018, when it wrote to the mortgaged address. Mrs A repaid the 
mortgage in late 2018.
Mrs A says Lloyds shouldnt have extended the mortgage without her consent  and should 
have made  more effort to contact her. She says Lloyds should  refund the interest she paid 
(about £13,000) after the end of the mortgage term. 
Lloyds said its service  could have been better and offered  £300  compensation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs A was 
responsible for repaying her mortgage  when it expired and could have made more effort to 
do this. Lloyds sent statements and letters about  the mortgage term ending  to the address 
Mrs A had given it. Our investigator said until the debt was repaid, Lloyds was entitled  to 
apply interest and collect payments. 
Mrs A didnt agree. She said shed tried to contact her original lender and was told it had 
been taken over by either Lloyds or another bank. She says when she visited her Lloyds 
branch she was told the mortgage wasnt with Lloyds. And she didnt receive any statements 
or letters from Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
did Lloyds make reasonable  efforts  to get in contact with Mrs A?
The term of Mrs As interest only mortgage ended in 2014. Id expect  Lloyds to write to Mrs A 
before the term ended to ensure she was aware  of the need  to make arrangements for the 
debt to be repaid.  Id expect it to contact her after the term ended to discuss  repayment. And 
Id also expect it to send annual statements to Mrs A reminding her that she had an interest  
only mortgage, and that shed need  to have made plans to repay  it at the end of the agreed 
term. 
Mrs A had moved out of the mortgaged property in 2008. She wrote to her lender with her 
new address, which  was the address  in Lloyds records when the mortgage term ended. 
Mrs A returned to the mortgaged address in 2011   she says she didnt tell Lloyds about this 
Ref: DRN04921742as she didnt know it was her lender. Mrs A says she paid for post to be re-directed  for two 
years.
Lloyds records show it wrote to Mrs A, at the address in its records, both before and after 
the mortgage term ended.  Its records also show it sent annual statements to this address. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs A didnt receive the correspondence, especially when shed paid for 
post to be re-directed. But I havent  seen anything to suggest this was due to an error by 
Lloyds. 
Lloyds sent a field agent to the mortgage property in early  2015 following the mortgage 
expiring. Its notes say the agent  was told by someone at the property that Mrs As 
whereabouts werent known. Mrs A says the field agent should  have  been  more persistent or 
left a letter so she knew Lloyds was trying to contact her. But at this point Lloyds didnt know  
Mrs A lived at the mortgaged address again, and the field agent  had been  told her 
whereabouts werent known. In the circumstances, I cant fairly say that Lloyds made an 
error when  its agent didnt  leave a letter at the property for her or discuss  the reason for the 
visit with third parties. 
Lloyds acquired  Mrs As original lender some  years before she took out the mortgage.  
Lloyds says Mrs As original lender administered her account until 2017. I can see from the 
copy annual statements that the lenders contact  address didnt change  through  2008 (when 
Mrs A wrote to the lender  to change her address), 2011 (when  she moved  back  to the 
mortgaged property) or late 2014 (when the mortgage term ended).  
Lloyds says the direct debit reference  for Mrs As mortgage payments says Lloyds Mtg and 
includes her mortgage  account number. 
I dont think Lloyds  or the original lender  made changes that prevented  Mrs A contacting 
it.
I dont think Lloyds could  reasonably have  known Mrs A wasnt  receiving its letters  or that 
she didnt know who to contact about repaying the mortgage. Lloyds wrote to Mrs A at the 
address shed provided. It sent a field agent to the property. I think it made  reasonable 
efforts to keep in contact with her. 
Was it fair for Lloyds  to apply interest after the mortgage term ended?
When Mrs A took out the mortgage she agreed  to repay it in 2014. She also agreed  to pay 
interest on the loan.  Mrs A didnt repay the loan when it was due. I think  Lloyds  was entitled 
to apply interest while the debt was outstanding. A direct debit payment was taken from 
Mrs As current account each month which continued after the due date. So I think she was 
aware of the interest payments. 
Ive considered whether theres anything  here that would  make it fair and reasonable to 
require Lloyds to refund the interest  paid by Mrs A after the mortgage term ended. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require  Lloyds to forego interest  in effect provide an 
interest free loan to Mrs A  simply because she didnt repay the debt on time. 
Once Lloyds started  legal action it wrote to all addresses held  including the mortgaged 
property. Mrs A says it should  have  done  this sooner or it should have cross-referenced  her 
details with other accounts. I dont know if Mrs A would have repaid her mortgage sooner or 
Ref: DRN04921743been better off if that had happened: the notes of her calls with Lloyds in 2018 suggest she 
needed to re-finance the loan  if shed done  this in 2014 shed  have incurred interest on the 
new loan. But, for the reasons Ive given,  I think Lloyds  made  reasonable attempts to contact  
Mrs A and provided enough  information for her to contact it. 
After considering what Mrs A has said, I dont  think, in the circumstances, its fair and 
reasonable to require  Lloyds to refund any interest.
Lloyds paid £300 compensation for poor service.  I havent seen anything  here that would 
make it fair and reasonable to require it to pay further compensation to Mrs A.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that Lloyds Bank PLC responded 
fairly to Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0492174