K820x#14Complaint
E is a business partnership. The partners  complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold  them  a 
fixed rate commercial loan.
Background
In August  2015,  the partners borrowed about  £2.3m  for their agricultural business. 
The lending was to be repaid over ten years, half on a variable interest rate and the other 
half on a fixed rate for the first seven years, reverting  to a variable rate for the remainder  of 
the term.
In 2019, the partners complained to Santander, saying the fixed  rate loan had been  mis-sold. 
Their representative  said the partners had entered the loan as a result of misrepresentation, 
undue influence and negligence  by the bank.  In particular, the representative  said the bank 
hadnt given sufficient, fair or accurate information about the risk of break costs. The 
complaint also challenged the legal  enforceability  of the break costs.
Santander didnt  offer any compensation. Unhappy with the banks response,  the partners 
referred their complaint  to this service.
Our investigator concluded that the bank hadnt done anything wrong. She gave these 
reasons, in summary:
Santander made it a condition  of lending that half of the total loan should be subject 
to interest rate hedging  for a minimum of five years. The investigator thought the 
partners were clear that the deal depended on taking  a fixed  rate on part of the 
lending.
The requirement to fix the interest  rate was for a minimum of five years.  The partners 
chose to fix the rate for seven  years. The bank clearly set out the terms of the lending 
and the partners made the decision to proceed.
Santander provided advance information  explaining  how fixed rate loans work, 
including information about break costs, with an illustrative example. The partners 
were also given  a specific  illustration of the possible break  costs  for their own loan. 
This explained how break costs are calculated and the impact of interest  rate 
movements. The investigator  thought  the bank gave the partners  sufficient 
information to make an informed decision to extend the fix from five to seven years. 
The investigators view was based  on what she thought was fair and reasonable. The 
argument about the legal enforceability  of the break  costs would be better considered 
by the courts.
The partners chose  to refinance with another  lender in 2018. Santander said there  
was regular communication  with the partners  in advance of this move, so they could 
understand the break costs. The investigator  thought the partners were clear that 
there would  be a cost to ending the loan early and wanted to monitor  interest  rates so 
they could exit at the least cost.
The partners didnt  agree  with the investigators conclusions and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
Ref: DRN09268042My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive come to the same  
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons.
The documentary evidence shows the bank made it a condition of lending  to fix the rate on 
half the borrowing  for at least  five years.  Santander explained to the partners in advance  that 
it was offering the lending on that basis.
In my view the bank gave  sufficient information about the risk of paying break costs for early 
exit from the fixed rate. It drew attention to the risk in July 2015, both in its factsheet  and in a 
covering email, with examples. The email also referred to the matter having  been discussed 
face-to-face a week  earlier.  
The example  in the factsheet was a generic  one, for a £1m loan,  which showed a possible 
break cost of £150,000. The covering email also contained a bespoke  example for a loan of 
£1.24m, showing a possible break cost of £243,868. These example break costs would, in 
my view, have alerted  the partners to the potential scale of the risk. And both examples 
showed that the more years remaining on the fixed  rate period, the higher the break cost.  So 
I agree  with the investigator that the partners would  have  been aware that increasing the 
length of the fix would have carried a risk of higher  break costs.
Separately the partners were also given indicative quotes for the interest rates  and monthly 
repayments for fixed rate periods of five and ten years. They were therefore  able to see the 
impact of the length of the fix on the price of the loan. The actual pricing for the seven-year  
fixed rate was also provided when drawdown  was agreed.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Santander gave the partners enough  information  to 
make an informed choice  when they fixed the rate for seven years rather  than the minimum 
of five years  required by the lending condition. I dont think the bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it sold the fixed rate loan.
In my view, the bank  also gave the partners  the information they needed in 2018 when they 
were considering whether to break the fixed rate loan and refinance.
The partners representative argues  that the break costs as set out in the loan agreement  
arent legally enforceable. I agree with the investigator that these legal arguments  would be 
better tested  in court. My role is to determine  what is, in my view, a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances of the complaint. Im satisfied that Santanders terms and 
conditions for the partners fixed rate loan did say that break costs may be charged on early  
termination of the fixed  rate loan. Im also satisfied that the bank drew the partners attention  
to the risks they faced as a result, and that the partners agreed to the contract in the 
knowledge of those risks. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
conclude that Santander couldnt recover break  costs from the partners  under the loan 
agreement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the partners complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Ref: DRN09268043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the partners to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0926804