K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for water damage  
was handled by Allianz Insurance  Plc.
background
In September  2017 Mr and Mrs B reported  a claim to Allianz in respect of a leak under their 
floor. Allianz appointed contractors to detect the leak, which  took some time and needed 
specialist equipment to establish where the water was coming from. The leak was detected 
around the end of November and stopped. Drying then had to be arranged. This involved 
stripping out the affected areas, removal of contents  to other parts  of the house  and the 
installation of dehumidifiers. This took until the end of February  2018.  Allianz  then arranged  
for the repairs to be costed and after agreeing schedules  and costing  the repairs were 
started in early May 2018. They were  completed by early August. Mr and Mrs B remained at 
the property until the repairs were started  and were  paid a daily disturbance allowance. Then 
Allianz paid for them to stay in alternative  rented accommodation  until the repairs were  
completed.
Mt and Mrs B complained to Allianz about  a number  of things, particularly delays, problems 
with communication  and the state the property and their contents were  left in. Allianz 
reviewed the matter in May 2018 and paid £400 for the delays and general inconvenience 
caused. It reviewed the matter further in September 2018 and paid a further £250. 
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with this, in particular they had a number of costs and expenses 
they thought should  be paid, in addition to increased  compensation.
On referral to this service  our investigator  ultimately considered that Allianz should increase 
the compensation paid by a further £200,  to compensate for the state Mr and Mrs Bs 
contents were left in and the extra cleaning needed.  He didnt think  it was liable for the extra  
expenses claimed.
Allianz disputed  this, advising that it has already paid for the cost of deep  cleaning and that 
Mr and Mrs B had made it quite clear  they would do the rest of the cleaning  themselves.
Mr B still wishes to pursue  his claim for extra expenses and enhanced compensation and 
believes it is justified.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make the point  that we are an alternative  dispute resolution service and we try to 
resolve things informally.  We wont do a forensic analysis of where things have gone wrong 
and apportion compensation. Nor do we calculate figure for compensation at a daily rate. I 
will consider  Mr Bs heads of complaint but will look at the overall  picture to assess  what  is 
the right figure for compensation. 
Ref: DRN05018292it took Allianz 79 days to detect and repair the leak
I appreciate that this took a long time which must have been  frustrating. It was a leak under 
the floor and these  can be difficult to detect, involving, as here, the use of specialist 
equipment. I understand that Mr B believes this should have been done sooner and to a 
certain extent Allianz has agreed that there were initial  delays. 
delays in the work and in approving the various  work needed
Mr B has told us that from the time the claim was reported until final completion the 
contractors only worked  on the property for 54 out of 332 days. I dont think thats a realistic 
way of looking at it. The initial  leak detection  took time, then the drying had to take place  and 
contractors dont work at weekends. After the drying, it took three months for the work to be 
agreed and for the work to start. I understand that there were some  delays due to suppliers 
not being able to deliver items on time,  but this was an extensive claim. Allianz has agreed 
that there  were some delays for which it paid compensation. But for the actual repair  work,  
which took about three months I cant say that this was out of the ordinary. I appreciate that I 
dont know exactly what work needed  to be done  or the schedules  of the contractors, but I 
think the compensation paid adequately  took it into account any culpable  delays.
not given planning and work schedules
Mr B says he asked for these and they werent supplied. He says that the contractors  didnt 
discuss the work with him and the loss adjuster didnt visit after the initial visit for approval in 
March 2018. I cant  say what happened  here. Once the works  were agreed it would normally  
be expected that the contractors would just get on with it. I understand that Mr B needed 
more specific information and he had to chase  to get answers to this. Allianz agreed that this 
caused him some inconvenience. I appreciate that this was frustrating for him.
 unhappy with the bureaucracy experienced whilst dealing with this claim
Mr B says he had to deal with a number of different parties, including  Allianz itself, its claim 
handlers (which were a different company),  contractors, brokers,  and various  loss adjusters.
I appreciate that the claims handlers  couldnt  deal with the matter once it got over a certain 
value. But if a policy is sold through a broker and decisions have to be made through the 
underwriters that is the nature of such matters.  I know it was frustrating for Mr B, but such a 
claim does  require liaison between various agencies.
 
a lot of Mr B's time was taken up by this matter,  especially when he was already busy 
dealing with his daughters wedding
I understand this, but unfortunately when a big claim like this happens, it will inevitably be 
very stressful. Im afraid that theres  not a lot that can be done to stop this. I appreciate  that 
Mr B and Mrs B had to be heavily involved in organising their move and that it was very 
inconvenient for them.  We do expect insurers to carry out their side of the claim to minimise 
this but would only expect them to pay compensation if the handling  of the claim aggravates 
the distress and inconvenience  already caused.  Allianz has recognised  that some  parts  of its 
service were  below  standard and its compensation award is intended  to reflect  that.
Ref: DRN05018293lack of response to his correspondence from the loss adjusters
Allianz has recognised  that its loss adjuster was slow in responding to emails,  And that she 
could have kept Mr B more up to date. It said this was left to the manager of the contractors.  
Again I can understand that this was frustrating but again I note that the compensation paid 
was in part intended to reflect that.
storage of all the furniture,  and other  items were dumped  in the living  room and 
conservatory
Allianz says this happened because  parts of the home were unaffected by the water 
damage. Whist I wouldnt expect it to put the items  into storage if they can be 
accommodated in this way, it should nevertheless  have made  sure they were  adequately 
protected. From Mr Bs account  and the photos it appears this wasnt  done  and the items 
were covered in dust and insects. And whilst I note Mr B told Allianz he would arrange  the 
cleaning, I dont think it paid him sufficient compensation to do this. Our investigator 
proposed a further payment of £200  and I think thats fair and reasonable,
noise from the dehumidifiers and air movers caused problems with sleeping. They werent 
offered alternative  accommodation during this time
It appears that Mr B agreed theyd stay at the property during this time with Allianz, though I 
appreciate he may not have anticipated  the noise, which is one of the unfortunate 
consequences of drying; Allianz paid an enhanced disturbance allowance.  Such  an 
allowance is intended  to compensate the consumer when the property is without basic  
facilities like a kitchen. This is because of the extra expense  in having to buy items like 
cooked food. As Allianz also paid an enhanced payment I think this sufficiently compensated 
Mr and Mrs B.
the alternative accommodation caused a lot of inconvenience. 
By all accounts although  the accommodation was some distance from the property  in other 
respects it was more convenient for their daughter  as it was closer to her. Ideally such  
accommodation should be readily  available  nearby  but inevitably some compromise has to 
be reached, which is part of the nature of the claim. Mr B says he had to travel  back to his 
own house every alternative  day to open  doors and water the garden. That was a matter for 
him. Allianz  says that if Mr B incurred  costs transporting items,  it will pay them  if he provides 
it with supporting evidence. I understand that Mr B didnt hire vehicles but if he were  to 
supply Allianz with details of the journeys undertaken, and the items removed, I would 
expect it to review this sympathetically.
.
it took Allianz eight  months to tell Mr B the plumbing  costs for the repair  to the leaking pipe 
weren't covered.
I note that the leak itself was stopped and a temporary repair carried  out. Allianz is right that 
the actual replacement of the pipe wasnt covered but Mr B should have been  told this 
earlier. However I cant see he was prejudiced  by this, as the repairs were able to be carried 
out before  the floor was re-laid.
Ref: DRN05018294delay in payment  of rent agreement fees
Mr B paid an advance of £20,000 for three months' rent as agreed  by Allianz. He initially  
received reimbursement  of £19,500.  It took Allianz  a long time to reimburse  the final £500  
without any explanation. I understand the £500  related to rental agreement fees. I dont think  
there was any dispute about this, Allianz just paid it late and I can understand this was 
frustrating to Mr B.
the dishwasher was damaged by Allianz's  contractors.
Mr B wants  to claim the cost of this. He received a payment  for repair  but was told it was 
beyond economical  repair (BER), and disposed of the dishwasher. Allianz says it will pay 
this if Mr B supplies  a report from the engineer. If Mr B was told the item was BER he should  
be able to get this confirmation from whoever told him this. I think Allianz position is 
reasonable in this respect.
traders contacted  Mr B as they haven't been paid by Allianz 
Mr B believes the manager of the contractors was at fault here. He raised issues with Allianz 
about past conduct he had read online about  the manager and Allianz  assured him he was 
employed and not the owner  of the company. I have read the correspondence Mr B had with 
the manager who appears to me to have been nothing but polite and supportive. Whilst Mr B 
suggests he failed  to pay contractors and failed  to order supplies in time again Ive seen no 
evidence of this from the files. If the contractors werent paid they should have known better 
than to approach  Mr B. It doesnt appear to have been an issue.  And I dont think  the overall 
timeline suggests that there was difficulty with contractors  refusing to work until they were  
paid, or raising  any issue about it which I suggest would have been the case  had they not 
been.
overall
Mr B still wants his expenses paid. He doesnt  accept  that the compensation paid is 
sufficient. Taking into account  all the issues  I have outlined above I think that Allianzs  
overall payment  of £650 together with the proposed extra payment of £200 for the extra  
cleaning and the inconvenience  of it, is fair and reasonable. If Mr B wants  to claim further 
transport costs or the costs of the dishwasher as set out above,  he should approach Allianz 
with the necessary evidence.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay to Mr and Mrs B a 
further £200 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2020.  
 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0501829