K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited  in relation to 
her home care insurance policy.
background
Miss Ms partner has been  added  to the insurance account as a named contact, and has 
been heavily involved in this matter. But as he isnt the policyholder  Ive largely just referred 
to Miss M in this decision. Miss Ms partner might be eligible to bring certain complaints to 
this service, but I dont  consider he is eligible in this case. This point is largely  administrative 
in this case though, as Miss M is eligible to bring, and is a party to, this complaint. 
For clarity I should also add that Miss M has, along with her partner, brought  a separate 
complaint to this service  about previous works carried out under her British  Gas policy and 
related issues. But these issues are not directly related to this current  complaint, and this 
service is considering at these points separately.
I will start by setting  out the main events involved with this complaint. This is not intended  to 
be an exhaustive timeline however.  
In mid-November 2018, Miss M contacted British Gas to amend her cover. She took out the 
Plumbing & Drains Cover (PAD) and Home  Electrical Cover (HEC).
Although Miss M had apparently asked to receive  all documents by post,  the letter she 
received only provided an internet link to her new policy  documents. She called British  Gas 
on 24 November 2018 and raised concerns about this. British  Gas offered to post the 
documents, but Miss M decided to amend her cover a second time, removing the PAD. 
Payments for Miss Ms cover were due to come out on the 28th of each month. However,  the 
first payment  was scheduled for 30 November 2018. This caused  some further concerns to 
be raised in the call. As did the fact that Miss M wasnt  given clear  information about whether 
she would  be charged anything for the cancelled PAD. A complaint  was raised about these 
points, and Miss M asked  for a refund of the premium paid for the PAD,  £50 in 
compensation, and for her documents to be resent  by post.
The direct debit that had been  previously set up to pay the premiums for the policy was 
cancelled on 27 November 2018.  
British Gas responded to the complaint points above on 31 December 2018. It said it had 
also tried to call Miss M on a number of occasions,  but that these attempts hadnt been 
successful. 
British Gas apologised for not having sent the policy documents in the post, and for not 
giving clear information about the cancellation  costs.  British Gas offered Miss M £60 in 
compensation for these issues.
British Gas also explained that, as the direct  debit had been cancelled,  the policy had 
lapsed. It asked  Miss M to contact British Gas if she either wanted the policy  reinstated  or 
cancelled. But that as no payment had been collected, no refund was due.
Ref: DRN03090832Prior to this letter from British Gas,  Miss M had also written  on several occasions to express 
dissatisfaction with the lack of communications  she was receiving, including that she hadnt  
received an acknowledgment  of her complaint within seven days. And that when shed sent 
an email to British Gas, the automated  response  said British Gas would endeavour to 
resolve the enquiry within three  days,  but that this hadnt happened. In these 
correspondence Miss M referred  to her original  complaint as relating to breaches of the 
Disability Discrimination Act 1995.  
Miss M responded to British Gas letter  of 31 December 2018, saying that her complaint had 
not been answered in full. She stated she had not cancelled the policy, had not received any 
missed calls or other communication from British  Gas prior to this letter, and that the letter 
did not address  the issue of British  Gas breaching the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 .
A duplicate  complaint had also been  set up by British Gas. And when it was closed a letter  
confirming the closure  was sent to Miss M, which caused further confusion. 
At this point, Miss M brought her complaint to this service. However, she then raised further 
issues with British Gas.  She said payments had been taken, so the policy should not be 
cancelled. And that she still had not received the policy  documents in the correct format.
British Gas responded to this, saying that the direct  debit had been cancelled  and that no 
payments had been taken. But that the policy had at that stage  only lapsed, though it would 
be automatically cancelled in due course unless the required payments were made. 
Miss Ms partner had also called British  Gas to dispute that the direct debit has been  
cancelled by Miss M. British Gas informed him that if this was reinstated, it could take the 
required payments  and the policy  would  also be reinstated.  Miss Ms partner refused this 
and stated he wanted the cover to be provided  free of charge. He said that by leaving 
Miss M without cover, British Gas was leaving her vulnerable. British  Gas responded that the 
decision not to reinstate  the direct debit  was a choice Miss M and her partner were making. 
Miss Ms partner maintained that the policy should  be provided free of charge. 
Ultimately, the direct  debit  was not reinstated and toward the end of January  2019 the policy  
was cancelled. Miss M is also unhappy  about this.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  Having  done so, she thought  the response of 
British Gas was appropriate. It was clear that there had been an error in how the policy 
document were  sent, and that there  had been some issues with communication.  
But our investigator thought British Gas had appropriately compensated Miss M. She also 
didnt think that any premiums had been collected  or that it was British Gas that had 
cancelled the direct debit. So our investigator  didnt think British Gas needed  to do any more. 
Miss M remained  unhappy and so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN03090833A number  of different complaint points have been  raised. And I have addressed what I 
consider to be the key issues. But whilst  I have  considered all of the remaining points, ours 
is an informal process, which means looking at a complaint in the round, as well as 
considering the detail.  So I havent set out, and wont  reply to, every  point  Miss M has made.
As a result of the thorough investigation  that has already taken place,  I have been  able to 
review all of the correspondence that was exchanged throughout the period in question, as 
well as the majority of the call recordings. Unfortunately,  apparently  due to IT issues, the 
recording of Miss M originally amending her cover  is not available. British  Gas has not 
however disputed what Miss M has claimed was discussed  in this call. 
the failure to send  the documents by post
I note Miss Ms concerns about how the policy documents have been provided to her. All 
parties accept that Miss M asked for these to be posted and that this didnt happen. Miss M 
has said this failure  is a breach of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995.
I should explain it is not the role of this service  to determine if any legislation of this nature  
has been breached; only a court can do that. The role of our service is to consider, taking 
into account relevant  law, whether a business has acted fairly  and reasonably. 
The relevant  law here may include the Equality Act 2010 (the Disability  Discrimination Act 
has been repealed as it relates to the events in question). However, whilst I take note of the 
provisions of this Act, I dont feel these change the fundamentals of this case.
Miss M has said she requires adjustments to the communications that are sent to her due to 
her health.  Whether  or not this health issue is a disability  protected by the Equality Act (and I 
should stress I am not questioning this one way or the other), I think  it would be reasonable 
for British Gas to amend  its communications in the manner requested.  The request is 
unlikely to be considered onerous  or unusual.  It also seems British Gas agreed to do this.
It is clear that this did not happen. But British Gas did offer to post the documents  to Miss M 
when she called on 24 November 2018.  After this the policy  then lapsed,  so I dont find it 
surprising that new documents  were not then sent.  
British Gas has offered  Miss M compensation for not sending these documents  initially. 
Taking into account the points above,  I consider this offer to be fair and reasonable. So 
whilst I do think  something went wrong  here,  I think British Gas responded to this error 
appropriately. And I dont  think it needs to do anything more  here.  
general communication issues
I note that, on 14 December 2018, an email  was sent to Miss M rather than a posted  letter.  I 
have to consider  the detriment of this failing though. It is not the role of this service to punish  
businesses where  mistakes are made. Our role is, in part, to ensure complainants  are fairly 
compensated where an error leads to material distress  or inconvenience.
Ref: DRN03090834Miss M has said that she did not receive this email of 14 December. So any difficulty  she 
might have had with reading  it did not, in the event, take place. The email also merely 
consisted of confirmation that a phone call had been  attempted and providing contact 
details. Following this further calls and letters were made and sent. So I dont consider this 
email to have caused material  distress  or inconvenience to Miss M. And, other than the 
policy documents, all other  substantive communications were sent by letter. 
Miss M has expressed  concerns at whether British Gas communicated  in a timely manner. 
She has referred to it not meeting its deadline of seven days  to acknowledge her complaint. 
But I can see that British  Gas sent her a letter on 29 November, so I think that it has 
complied with the timeframe it set, along with that set by the relevant  rules. It would appear 
from her comments  that Miss M may not have received this letter. But it was correctly 
addressed, and I cannot hold British Gas responsible for any non-delivery.
And whilst the complaint  may not have been resolved within  three days, I dont think  it would 
be fair or reasonable  to apply to this a timeframe that relates to British  Gas endeavouring to 
deal with an enquiry.  Miss M and her partner were provided with the appropriate timescales 
when they initially  raised the complaint. So they would have known how long a full response 
was likely to take.  British Gas responded to Miss Ms complaint within the required time.
I have also seen the internal screenshots, and been  provided with call recordings  and copies 
of correspondence  relating to attempts to contact Miss M. So I consider  British Gas to have,  
largely speaking,  acted appropriately in terms of these communications. 
I agree  that the cost of the cancelled PAD cover  was not made entirely clear during the call. 
British Gas has not charged for the cancelled cover though, so any impact  is non-financial. 
But I appreciate  Miss M was troubled  by the call handlers comments. Consumers  are 
generally entitled to cancel  insurance policies within the first 14 days of cover. However it is 
not uncommon, nor is it inappropriate, for an insurer to charge a consumer  for time on 
cover. It seems  from the call handlers initial comments that she was confused by this. 
I also note though that the call handler did try to provide a further explanation, but that 
neither Miss M nor her partner  were prepared to continue the conversation  at this point. 
They had been on the phone for some time by then, so this is understandable. But I do have 
to take this into account when considering  this issue. 
British Gas has accepted things could  have gone better here,  and has factored this in when 
offering compensation. I also note the offer was actually more than Miss M originally asked 
for in settlement.  So, whilst I appreciate Miss M was troubled by the information she was 
provided with, I consider  British Gas response  here to be appropriate. 
the cost and cancellation of the policy
In addition to how the costs were  explained, Miss M is unhappy  British  Gas intended to take 
the first payment from her account on 30 November 2018, rather than 28 November. She 
considers this to be a failure to honour an agreement. I am not sure what was said in the 
original call, but I think the call hander  on 24 November  2018 adequately explained why the 
timeframes involved in this case didnt allow the first payment to be taken  on the 28th. 
Ref: DRN03090835I also note that the letter  sent to Miss M on 17 November, with the link to her policy 
documents, stated  that the first payment would be taken on 30th November 2018, followed 
by eleven payments of £12.00 on the 28th of each month, or the following working day. So I 
think Miss M would  have been aware of when  the premiums were  going to be due and I 
dont consider British  Gas to have acted inappropriately here.  
Additionally, I have been provided with no evidence that British Gas has taken any payment 
for this policy at any time after the original amendments in mid-November 2018. Miss M has 
referred to a charge that appears on her bank  statement, but this appears  to relate to a 
different business.  I am unable to comment further  on Miss Ms outgoings,  but it may be that 
she will need  to speak  to her bank if she is unsure of the parties she is paying.  
The evidence available is also clear that it was Miss M who cancelled  this direct  debit prior to 
it being taken.  Miss M has said that this was because she was told to. However, this is not 
mentioned within the call of 24 November 2018, and there was no other  communication from 
British Gas between  this point and the cancellation. 
It may be that Miss M is confused with previous events, which apparently  led to her initial 
changes to her cover.  These events  are not the subject of this complaint, but it seems  that 
Miss M may have  been instructed to cancel the direct debit that existed then. I appreciate  
Miss M may have  had a number of dealings with British Gas,  so confusion  from this is 
understandable. But I am satisfied that the appropriate direct debit to pay for the PAD and 
HEC was set up in November 2018, and that Miss M then cancelled  this without any 
direction to do so from British Gas.
It should also be borne in mind that when  the payments were not made  for the remaining 
HEC cover, this policy  was not immediately  cancelled. British Gas clearly, in my view,  set out 
the situation and actions  Miss M needed to take in order to avoid  it being  cancelled. As 
Miss M did not act on this, I think British Gas acted  fairly and reasonably here. So I am 
unable to hold British Gas responsible for any consequences of the policy lapsing or being 
cancelled. And I dont find there to be any reason cover should be provided free of charge.
Ultimately, whilst there have been  some  failings by British Gas,  I think  it has responded to 
these appropriately.  Taking everything  into account,  I dont think  it needs to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I consider the compensation offered by British  Gas Insurance  
Limited on 31 December  2018 to be fair and reasonable. British Gas should pay this to 
Miss M if it has not already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0309083