K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that a car he financed through an agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  
(Moneybarn) was faulty at the point of supply. Hed therefore like to be allowed to reject  it.
background
Mr E signed  a conditional sale agreement  with Moneybarn in January 2018  and took receipt 
of a used car in February 2018. The car he received had covered 78,600 miles at that point 
and was first registered in 2010. 
Prior to handing the car over, but after the finance agreement  had been  signed, the 
dealership replaced  the timing chain. The following month Mr E reported a problem  with a 
sensor. He had this fixed himself but early the next month there was another  issue with the 
timing chain. Mr E had another garage  diagnose  the problem. They said the camshaft 
adjusters and inlet adjuster spring  were  damaged and they suggested this was because  the 
timing chain had been  misaligned  by two teeth.
Mr E therefore complained to Moneybarn but they didnt uphold his complaint. They  
suggested that an independent  inspection was necessary to clarify whether the issue had 
been present  at the point  of supply. But Mr E was unhappy with their response and referred 
his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think an independent  inspection was worthwhile. He noted  that the 
cause of the failure in January wasnt recorded so it wouldnt  be clear if thered been  a re-
occurrence in March. He said Moneybarn had their opportunity to investigate  the issue  but 
hadnt done so and it was clear there was a problem with the timing chain when the car was 
provided, as the dealership had replaced it before theyd handed the car over.  He explained  
that legislation allowed  Moneybarn one opportunity to repair problems with the vehicle but if 
that repair was unsuccessful the vehicle  could be rejected. And he thought here, as the car 
had been rectified  after the finance  agreement had been signed, the business had had their 
opportunity to fix the problem. 
He said that, as that repair  had evidently  failed, Mr E should be allowed to reject  the car; 
have his deposit refunded  and that Moneybarn should repay all instalments theyd received 
towards Mr Es agreement from May 2018  (the point at which he was advised not to drive 
the car). He also thought  Mr E had been inconvenienced by this issue and suggested 
Moneybarn compensate him for this by paying  £150.
Mr E accepted the adjudicators view but Moneybarn didnt. They said that, as Mr E had now 
changed the timing  belt and evidence  hadnt been conclusive that there was a fault at the 
point of supply,  they couldnt agree. They  asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN04176652Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
Legislation allows Moneybarn  one opportunity to fix any problems that occur.  But if their 
attempt at repair fails wed usually expect the business  to allow  the consumer to reject  the 
car.
Here the car was repaired before  Mr E received it and I think  its reasonable to suggest  this 
was the business  repair opportunity. But Im persuaded  that repair was unsuccessful. I say 
that because:
Mr E reported a further issue with the timing  chain very shortly  after he took receipt of 
the car. Its therefore more likely than not that this issue  was present or developing at 
the point of supply
the report he provided from the garage supported this view and said the belt had 
been fitted incorrectly
Its clear that Mr E had a problem with the timing chain and given that there was a problem I 
think its more likely  than not that the problem related to an unsatisfactory earlier repair.
I agree  with the adjudicator that an independent  inspection would be unlikely  to shed more 
light on this issue. The problem was highlighted to Moneybarn in early March  but they didnt 
investigate it further at that point. It would be unfair to ask Mr E to wait any longer and as the 
issue with the timing chain occurred so quickly after the repair  had been  completed by the 
dealership, I think its highly probable the current issue  is related to that unsatisfactory repair.
So I think Moneybarn should  allow  Mr E to reject the vehicle and having  considered  the 
redress the adjudicator  has suggested I find no reason to deviate from it.
Ref: DRN04176653my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  
to:
end the finance agreement with no further liability  for Mr E
collect the vehicle  at no further cost to Mr E
refund  Mr Es deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
refund  all payments  from and including May 2018 to reflect the period Mr E has been 
unable to use the car and add 8% simple  interest  per annum to each refund from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
pay Mr E £150 to compensate him for the inconvenience hes experienced
remove any adverse information  theyve recorded on Mr Es file in relation to this 
issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0417665