K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy that his landlord insurance policy was automatically renewed  by U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) at a higher  premium  due to the risk of flood.
background
In 2016 Mr K insured his buy to let property with UKI. The premium was £641. In 2017  the 
premium increased to £3,373. The policy was renewed and Mr K paid the premium by 
monthly instalments.
Mr K complained to UKI about the amount of the increase. It said that it was due to a 
reassessment of the propertys  risk of flooding. UKI explained that at each renewal it uses  
tools to assess the risk of a property. It said according to its most recent assessment  Mr Ks 
property was shown  to be at greater risk of flooding and that was why his premium had 
increased.
Mr K said his property isnt near a river or a lake and is on the higher end of a road that 
slopes downwards  away from the property. UKI said it didnt just look at how close a 
property was to a river or lake but takes into account other types  of flooding.
He also complained that his policy had automatically  renewed. UKI said Mr K had chosen 
this option. It said it hadnt  changed that because it might have left him without any cover.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt  intend to uphold  this complaint. An 
extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Sometimes a customer will complain about  a particular  factor  such as flood risk thats  been  
used to calculate a premium.  If an insurer believes  a factor  carries a greater degree of risk, I 
wont normally question that so long as it does  this fairly and treats all consumers in the 
same situation in the same way.
In this particular  case, UKI has provided  us with a copy of the risk assessment outcome. 
That shows  the Mr Ks property is in what UKI considers to be a high flood risk area. Its also 
provided us with the terms  it applies  when a customers property  scores  the same  as Mr Ks. 
While I cant share this information with Mr K because  it is confidential,  Id like to reassure 
Mr K that Ive checked it very carefully and Im satisfied  it explains the price  increase he 
experienced when his policy was renewed  in 2017.
I dont think UKI treated  Mr K unfairly in the way it calculated his premium  on renewal. But I 
fully appreciate that the increase in Mr Ks premium was substantial   and that it must have 
come as a shock to him. Although Mr K hasnt specifically complained about the way he was 
notified about the price increase, Ill look at this as well. Thats because consumers describe 
their complaint as they see it. This service takes  the view that its our job rather than the 
consumers to identify  correctly the issues at the core of the complaint. I think the 
communication of the premium increase policy is intrinsically linked to the increase in 
premium and so its appropriate  for me to consider it as part of this complaint.
The renewal  date for this policy was 19 December  2017. UKI sent the documents out by 
post to Mr K on 14 November 2017, which was well in advance of this but they took some 
time to reach him since he lives abroad. It told him his policy would automatically renew if he 
Ref: DRN06921262didnt take any action to stop it. It also sent him an email on 21 November 2017  with the 
same information.
The issue  here is whether  with such  a substantial increase in the premium UKI should  have  
done more than it normally would do on renewal to draw  Mr Ks attention to the increase. 
Whilst it would have  been better if UKI had done more to draw Mr Ks attention to the 
increase in his premium,  I think he was still given fair warning by UKI of how much it 
intended to charge on renewal so that he had the opportunity  to get other  quotes if he 
wished. He also had the opportunity to cancel the policy without  a penalty within the first 14 
days after renewal.  So Im not persuaded UKI treated  Mr K unfairly in not doing more  to 
make him aware of how much his premium  was going to increase.
UKI accepted my provisional findings. Mr K said it shouldnt be enough for UKI to show  that 
it had treated him as it would other customers in a similar position because  it might be 
treating all those customers in an incorrect manner. He thought I should look at whether the 
massive increase in his premium was really  justified. He also thought he should be 
compensated for the inconvenience of having to look for a new policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to understand that this service  doesnt have a remit to assess pricing 
methodology generally, such  as considering whether products represent good value for 
money. So we generally accept  that insurers can charge what they like for insurance so long 
as they act fairly. In simple terms that means that they should  apply  their chosen pricing 
model consistently so long as the consumer  has flexibility  to shop around and change 
insurer if they wish.  Im satisfied thats the case here. Mr K might think  that UKI has 
incorrectly exaggerated the flood risk to his property. But its for UKI to decide on its appetite 
for flood  risk and adjust  its premiums accordingly. He had the option to shop around for 
alternative cover if he wished.
Renewing a property  insurance policy will involve a bit of time and effort to get the best 
terms. People who take the time to shop around often end up paying less. I dont think UKI 
should have to compensate Mr K for this. Its something many consumers might have done 
anyway.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0692126