K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs M says 
Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold her the PPI.
background 
Mrs M first took out the PPI in 2001,  at the same time as taking out her mortgage  with YBS. 
In 2004 and 2009 she took out additional  borrowing secured against her home, and on both 
of these occasions PPI was discussed  and Mrs M decided to increase the benefit  amount to 
cover her additional debt.
In 2005 Mrs M contacted  YBS to amend her monthly  benefit, but she didnt take out 
additional borrowing  at this time.  Mrs M wrote to YBS to amend her cover  and there was no 
discussion or interaction with YBS  other  than her sending a letter to them to make  the 
requested changes. Therefore Ive not considered this as a sale of PPI and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at this time have  not been  considered in my decision.   
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ms policy was mis-sold in 2001, or that YBS did anything  
wrong when it reviewed her policies  in 2004  and 2009. Mrs M disagreed with this opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
sale of the policy in 2001
Mrs M says she wasnt told the PPI was optional  and she believed that she wouldnt get the 
mortgage without  it. But based on the evidence Ive seen I think YBS made it clear that 
Mrs M didnt  have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this now. I say this because  Ive seen a copy of her 
mortgage application which refers to PPI. In this document it says You must consider how 
you would  pay your mortgage if you became unemployed, sick or had an accident and 
therefore could  not work . But this is different to saying she has to take out the policy. And 
Ive not seen anything in the documents from the time to say she had to have this cover.  
However, I have seen a copy  of a separate PPI application form which  Mrs M saw and 
signed. In this the PPI benefit  amount has been entered  and the accident,  sickness and 
unemployment option has been ticked.  So I think the policy was discussed  with Mrs M and 
she signed this form so I think it reflected what she wanted at the time.  
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt  have  to check if the policy was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide  if the PPI 
was right for her. 
Ref: DRN04609872Its possible the information YBS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs M says its likely she wouldve received some sick pay from her employer at the time but 
I still think the policy wouldve been useful for her, had she needed to claim. I say this 
because upon  a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if she was 
too sick to work or made redundant. And this wouldve been  on top of her sick pay 
entitlement. As this is likely to have been  Mrs Ms most significant  financial commitment at 
the time,  for which  she was solely responsible, I think having the PPI in place provided some 
additional security. 
review of the policy in 2004
In 2004 when Mrs M took out a further  advance with YBS the PPI was discussed.  At this 
time YBS advised Mrs M that the PPI was suitable for her and that she should amend her 
policy to increase her benefit amount. Ive seen a copy  of a separate  PPI alteration  form 
which shows that the benefit amount was to be increased, and Mrs M signed this form. So I 
think she agreed to continue with the policy and increase the benefit  the cover  provided  
knowing she didnt have  to.
When giving  advice YBS had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based on what 
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. And, even though she was 
entitled to some sick pay at the time and had some savings, for the same reasons Ive 
outlined above,  I still think she had a need for the cover. Ive also seen  that Mrs M had a 
term assurance and critical illness policy in 2004  but these mainly wouldve paid out for 
different eventualities  than the PPI, so this doesnt change my decision.
Again I think its possible  that the information  YBS gave her about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been   but as it was suitable for her and wouldve been  useful  if something  had 
gone wrong - I dont  think this wouldve made  a difference to her decision to continue  with 
her policy.  
review of the policy in 2009
In 2009 Mrs M took out some additional  borrowing with YBS and again she increased  the 
PPI benefit amount to cover this additional  borrowing.  For the same  reasons outlined above, 
I think Mrs M was aware she didnt have to have the PPI policy  nor did she have  to increase 
her benefit   but I think she chose to. Ive also seen  a copy of a Statement  of Demands and 
Needs from this time. This suggests that the PPI was discussed and Mrs M expressed that 
she wanted cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Ive also considered her circumstances  from 2009 and Ive not seen anything which meant  
the policy was now unsuitable for her or that it was no longer of any use to her. Ive seen that 
Mrs M says she had a generous amount of savings at this time. But she chose to take out 
additional borrowing  with YBS instead of spending her savings,  so I think  its likely she had 
these savings earmarked  for other means.  And having the PPI in place meant  that these 
savings would remain protected had she been  suddenly unable to work.  
Ref: DRN04609873So overall I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  This means YBS doesnt have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. But YBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M 
because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. YBS should  also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mrs M the extra she paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mrs M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0460987