K820x#14complaint
Mr G complained that Pen-Life Associates  Limited (Pen-Life) didnt provide a proactive 
service which  he was paying for. He said that Pen-Life caused confusion  and gave a poor 
explanation of why his pension was undervalued. His complaint was also mishandled.
background
In December 2016 and January 2017 Pen-Life advised Mr G about transferring several 
pension plans to a new provider. The report dated 9 January 2017 detailed  that Pen-Life 
would provide regular reviews  for Mr Gs new plan. Thered be an ongoing fund based fee of 
1% pa to cover: 
the costs of our ongoing portfolio management, administration, day to day service, regular 
reviews, and functions of the investment committee.
On 21 December 2017 Pen-Life  emailed  to Mr G a copy of an internal memo saying that the 
provider had technical issues which meant  some  valuations  might be incorrect.  Pen-Life was 
in contact with the provider  to establish when the issues would be resolved.  Emails were 
exchanged between Mr G and Pen-Life.  Ive considered those in further  detail below. But the 
main developments can be summarised as follows.  
On 26 March 2018 Pen-Life sent Mr G a summary  of his pension.  Pen-Life said the correct  
investments had now been purchased  and a review had shown that no investment loss had 
occurred as a result of the providers technical issues  in December 2017.
On 21 April 2018 Mr G emailed Pen-Life saying hed looked at a graph of the original 
portfolio he was invested in and the growth of his pension wouldve been substantially  higher 
if the portfolio  rebalancing undertaken hadnt occurred.
In reply on 23 April 2018  Pen-Life said the differences between  the estimated and actual 
returns wouldve been due to the timing  of when charges  were  deducted.
On 8 May 2018  Mr G wrote to Pen-Life,  saying, I would  like to formalise  a complaint please 
regarding the service I have received from yourselves.
Pen-Life acknowledged the complaint on 10 May 2018. Pen-Life summarised what  it 
understood Mr Gs complaints to be: losses incurred  in the quarterly rebalance process; 
unreported charges;  problems  caused by the provider migration to its new platform. 
On 14 May 2018 Mr G responded to Pen-Life  saying it had incorrectly interpreted his 
complaint. He wanted Pen-Life to look into the three  points highlighted but hed be providing 
further complaint  points  for its consideration in due course.
Pen-Life replied  on 16 May 2018,  saying, I understand that you wish to put together  the full 
details of what you are actually complaining about  and when we receive  this we will action 
this accordingly.
Mr G contacted Pen-Life again in June 2018.  Mr G emailed Pen-Life on 10 August 2018 with 
a letter  of complaint and documents  in support. He said he was writing to formalise  his 
complaint, namely:  
Ref: DRN02848932The level of service  received from Pen-Life had been poor and is not in line with 
either that promised  when hed decided to entrust management of his considerable 
pension portfolio (valued at over £900,000)  to Pen-Life; or the adviser  fees charged 
of 1%; or any reasonable service level expectation. 
Pen-Life had provided information  that suggested his pension portfolio value is 
potentially 1.5%  (about £14,000)  lower  than it should be and had then failed to 
provide a detailed and reasonable explanation,  or redress proposals as may be 
appropriate.
Pen-Life had failed to manage  his concerns either fairly or in line with its own
commitments to him which would have  also proved,  or otherwise, that hed not been  
financially disadvantaged during this period  of poor service.
Mr G said he wanted fees to be refunded (to more  accurately reflect  the poor level of service 
hed received) plus compensation  for stress, worry and time spent in dealing with the matter. 
He also wanted  definitive evidence that he hadnt  been financially disadvantaged  and, if he 
had, proposals for recompense. 
Mr G was unhappy not to have  had Pen-Lifes final response by 29 October  2018. He 
acknowledged that part of his complaint was against the provider who, it appeared, had 
delayed in dealing  with the matter   although Mr G had received a payment direct from the 
provider. But Mr G was disappointed  that Pen-Life  had said it expected to complete its 
investigation by 23 October 2018.  
Pen-Life had, on 26 October 2018, sent its final response to Mr G. Pen-Life said it had been 
waiting for further  details  from Mr G before concluding its review  of his complaint. In 
summary Pen-Life said the rebalancing issues had arisen as a result of problems with the 
providers systems and were beyond  Pen-Lifes control. It had liaised  with the provider  and 
clients during that time. The investigation by the provider confirmed there  was no financial 
loss and a payment for the upset caused had been offered. The graph supplied to Mr G was 
for illustration purposes and wasnt guaranteed.
Mr G referred  the matter to this service. An adjudicator reviewed  Mr Gs complaint. He didnt  
uphold it. He said, in summary:
The ongoing service  agreement was for Pen-Life to provide quarterly reports  and 
regular reviews. There was evidence of quarterly rebalancing and review meetings 
such as the one carried out in December 2017.
The providers system  problems in December 2017 werent Pen-Lifes fault and it 
was reliant on the provider to resolve  matters.  Whilst Mr G had said the adviser 
didnt sufficiently understand his pension plan performance at the December 2017 
meeting, Pen-Life  had provided  the service which was agreed. 
Knowing that there were problems with the pension valuation  had caused Mr G worry
and upset. Pen-Life had attempted to answer  his queries about the value of his 
pension. The graph caused  some  confusion but it wasnt  specific  to the actual dates 
and amounts of Mr Gs pension and didnt have the same charges. Whilst in 
hindsight it mayve been better not to issue the graph, Pen-Life hadnt  made  a 
substantial error.
It was correct for Pen-Life to treat Mr Gs email of 8 May 2018 as a complaint even 
though hed said there were  more issues he wanted to raise.
It was reasonable  for Pen-Life to look at the entire  complaint  once  the further points 
were provided. In hindsight Pen-Lifes  email of 14 May 2018 couldve been  explicit  in 
Ref: DRN02848933saying it would provide a single reply once all the points had been considered. But 
overall Pen-Life handled the complaint reasonably.
Mr G didnt accept the adjudicators view. Mr G said it was about the quality of the service 
hed received. There had been  emails and meetings but the service  should have been 
better. Mr G felt it had fallen well short of what was acceptable and should  at least  have 
resulted in an apology from Pen-Life.  The adjudicator had attributed most of the blame to the 
provider, who had provided a less than acceptable service and had apologised and paid 
compensation. But Pen-Life had made  its own, unrelated  errors  and hadnt even apologised. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint isnt about  the advice Pen-Life gave. Its about the ongoing service which it 
had been agreed that Pen-Life  would provide. And the issue  isnt about whether Pen-Life 
provided that service.  Its about whether the standard of the service and whether it fell below  
the level that Mr G was reasonably entitled to expect. 
The ongoing  adviser services and charges are referred to in several documents, including  
the services and payment agreement which Mr G signed on 20 September  2016.  It said that 
if Pen-Life had agreed to provide ongoing  services an additional fee would be chargeable for 
those services. Where Pen-Life was managing  the investments the maximum charge would 
be 1.5% pa. The ongoing charge would be deducted  from the investments. 
Pen-Life provided financial reports and recommendations in December 2016 and January 
2017. The December  report said: 
Fund Based Fees (Ongoing)
These fees are payable  to Pen-Life for the ongoing  management of the portfolios, at a rate 
of 1% per annum of the total fund value.  Based  on the value transferred this would equate to
£8,681 a year. You can cancel this charge in the future but it is a flat rate applicable to all
clients across  all platforms and is to defray the costs of our ongoing portfolio management,
administration, day to day service,  regular reviews, and functions  of the investment
committee.
The January  2017 report repeated that and added:
Regular Reviews
We believe that the importance of regular reviews cannot be underestimated where your
pension planning  is concerned. As such,  we will conduct a review of your plan on a regular
basis, inviting you to sit down with an adviser to discuss your goals and the performance of 
your pensions and investments. 
Theres an implied term that such reviews and other  ongoing service would be of a 
reasonable standard. If I thought the service wasnt of the standard  Mr G was reasonably 
entitled to expect then I could  make  an award for any distress and inconvenience suffered in 
consequence of the poor service hed received. And a refund  of all or some  of the fees might  
be justified. 
Ref: DRN02848934Mr Gs pension funds were large and so in turn was the fee he was paying. I can understand 
why hed been keen to ensure that he got good value in return. Im sorry his expectations 
werent met. But the issue for me is whether the service he got was of an acceptable  
standard. The adjudicator identified some instances  where he thought  Pen-Life  could 
perhaps have handled  things differently or been  clearer. But the fact that there might be 
room for improvement  wont necessarily mean the service that was provided fell short  of 
what Mr G might reasonably be entitled to expect. Or that material distress and 
inconvenience has been caused,  sufficient   to justify an award of compensation.  
Ive considered everything Mr G has said and, in particular, the contemporaneous  email  
correspondence. Its important as it shows how things developed.  Ive made some 
observations below.  
The transfers were  undertaken in late 2016.  I havent seen that there  were  any problems 
initially and not until the review meeting in December 2017. I note Mr Gs comments about  
the adviser apparently having  undertaken limited  preparation for the meeting. But its difficult  
to judge that now. At the meeting a possible  drop in value was identified and that thered 
been a problem with the latest rebalancing exercise. Mr G then received Pen-Lifes email 
about the issues the provider was having which had resulted in some high cash balances  
and incorrect fund values.  
At the beginning  of 2018 Mr G queried  whether rebalancing  was having an adverse effect  on 
his fund value.  The adviser looked  into that and replied on 5 January 2018 with some  graphs 
and saying that rebalancing shouldnt have an impact on performance. The adviser added 
that the provider had done a lot of work  to rectify  the problems with the latest rebalancing 
exercise but hadnt confirmed all portfolios had been corrected. He said hed let Mr G know  
when that had been done. Mr G confirmed hed await that. 
Mr G then had a problem  with logging into this account. It looks like he was used to doing  
that on a daily basis. It seems, from Pen-Lifes  email of 23 January 2018, that other  clients  
had experienced difficulty  logging in which prompted Pen-Life to draw that to the providers 
attention. The provider then provided new log in details  for all clients,  including Mr G. The 
upshot was that he then had difficulties which hed not had previously. 
Mr G would no doubt have preferred  a more selective approach  but it seems  the decision to 
issue new log in details  to all clients was the providers. I dont see Pen-Life  is responsible  
for that or for the resulting difficulties that Mr G encountered. And Pen-Life  was liaising with 
the provider, who said it would provide help for clients experiencing log in problems. 
By the end of January  2018 Mr G was becoming  increasingly concerned and starting to lose 
confidence  his email of 31 January  2018 refers. Hed clearly have appreciated an 
immediate response   and reassurance  by return.  But he had to prompt Pen-Life on 6 
February 2018. Pen-Life did apologise  and said it was still waiting for a response from the 
provider as to when the problems would be fixed.  
Its clear that Mr G was concerned and wanted things to move quicker. There was a limited  
amount Pen-Life  could  do when the problem wasnt of its making and resolving it was 
outside of its control. It could have responded more quickly to Mr Gs emails and requests for 
updates but I dont  think any delays  were unreasonable. I also bear in mind, if it was waiting 
on the provider,  Pen-Life would have  been  unable to provide a meaningful  update to Mr G 
anyway.  
Ref: DRN02848935Pen-Life did make errors in February  2018  when it sent out its email about  the winter  
2017/2018 rebalancing. But when Mr G pointed that out, Pen-Life  replied within  two hours 
and said that a corrected email  would be issued the following day. I cant see that Mr G was 
caused anything  other than minimal  inconvenience  by the errors. 
I note he was still then experiencing  logging in difficulties. But, I dont see that, if the provider 
still hadnt managed to correct those, that was Pen-Lifes fault. It seems to have been in 
regular contact with the provider at the time so Im not sure that Pen-Life could or should  
have been doing more.  
Mr G also said he didnt accept as correct  the fund values shown. He queried  the fees he 
was being charged and if thered be any penalty if he moved  away from the provider  and/or  
Pen-Life. In reply Pen-Life said Mr Gs case had been specifically discussed with a technical 
wrap specialist from the provider whod visited Pen-Lifes offices.  So it appears efforts to sort 
out the problems and specifically Mr Gs account, were on going. 
Pen-Life confirmed  the fees and that there  was no penalty for transferring. Pen-Life  did 
suggest possibly  moving to a different provider (albeit a slightly  more  expensive one). I 
agree here with Mr G that a move  could well have added  to the disruption. He also says an 
alternative wasnt offered  when the initial advice to transfer was given. But the provider  
selected was a major provider. Pen-Life  couldnt  have predicted  the problems that arose a 
year or so after the transfers had gone ahead. 
The subsequent exchange of emails  evidences Mr Gs growing dissatisfaction that there 
were still problems and what  he perceived  as a lack of checking and managing the issues  by 
the provider and Pen-Life. He felt both businesses service had been lacking. 
In reply Pen-Life said thered been a problem with the December rebalance which  hadnt  
been fixed, due to the providers timetable to implement the system upgrade and the work  
required to deal with the problems that had generated. But the provider had promised that 
Mr G wouldnt  be disadvantaged and was still working on the issue.  I can understand Mr Gs 
frustration but I dont think the ongoing  delay was Pen-Lifes fault. I realise that Mr G accepts 
that the root problem was not of Pen-Lifes  making.  His criticism is of how Pen-Life managed 
(or didnt manage)  the situation. But from what Ive seen Pen-Life  did attempt to get things 
sorted out. As Pen-Life commented, if the provider didnt provide meaningful  information  
there was little for Pen-Life to pass  on to its clients. 
Mr G requested an update a week later.  Understandably he wanted  to know  if his fund value 
had been corrected. But I can also see why Pen-Life might have been waiting until it had 
something more concrete  to tell him. The provider was testing the correction process that 
day and sharing the results so that Pen-Life could check  it had been done  to its satisfaction 
before applying it to clients  accounts.  Pen-Life said it expected the process  to be completed  
by the end of the week but that was down to the provider. It seems  Pen-Life preferred to wait 
until it had an outcome for Mr G. I dont  see thats unreasonable.  
Pen-Life also suggested a meeting but Mr G wasnt available  and suggested a call instead.  
That doesnt  seem  to have been  followed up but again I can see (and as Pen-Life  later 
confirmed) that Pen-Life would have wanted to be in a position  when things  had been  
resolved. 
Pen-Life emailed  Mr G a few days later confirming  the fund rebalance  correction was finally  
underway and setting out the process in detail. 
Ref: DRN02848936Mr G queried  if Pen-Life still wanted  to listen  to his concerns. Pen-Life said it did but it had 
wanted to get to the point  where the re-balance  problem had been sorted out first. It was 
now confident  that was the case but was awaiting final confirmation. It added  that it thought  it 
would be better to meet up face to face.  I dont  think that was an unreasonable  approach,  
although I appreciate why Mr G may have thought a discussion  had been  overlooked.  
Mr G then didnt hear further. Pen-Life did apologise. But again it seems  Pen-Life was still 
awaiting information from the provider. Pen-Lifes understanding  was that the surplus  cash  
from the rebalance  in December had been applied  to funds  earlier that month  (March  2018). 
Market falls in February 2018 meant  the cash holding protected the portfolio. 
Further information was to hand a few days later and relayed to Mr G (on 26 March  2018). A 
detailed breakdown was given. The provider had taken  the model portfolio and calculated 
the growth between  18 December  2017  (when it should  have  invested) and the actual date 
of investment. There would be no loss if static growth of cash would have outperformed  the 
model portfolio.  Pen-Life said that was the case for Mr G and his portfolio value would have 
been lower if the cash had been correctly invested.  So he hadnt been disadvantaged and 
no further correction  was due. Mr G did have some queries which  Pen-Life  dealt with. 
Mr G had further queries  in April 2018, having  noted  more adjustments to his portfolio. Again 
I think Pen-Life dealt  with those queries promptly and fully. It seems the problem was in part 
at least due to how the information  was presented by the provider. Mr G seemed satisfied 
with the explanations given. 
But he told Pen-Life  that he was still considering his options and had met with another 
adviser. Mr G said he assumed the proposed  meeting with Pen-Life wasnt  now going ahead 
 although he did acknowledge that Pen-Life had wanted to wait until the portfolio had been  
rectified. Mr G said the other  adviser had looked at what Mr Gs portfolio would have  been  
worth without rebalancing  something approaching £70,000 more  so it appeared 
rebalancing had reduced  returns. 
Looking at the exchange of emails which then took place, it seems that Pen-Life responded 
promptly and fully to the queries Mr G raised.  Pen-Life also suggested some possible dates 
for a meeting.  In response to Mr Gs point that rebalancing hadnt added anything  in terms of 
performance, Pen-Life said that was typical in rising markets but the rebalance did keep  the 
risk profile at the right level as otherwise it tended to drift upwards. 
Some of Mr Gs queries arose  from comparison with the graph  that had been supplied.  That 
did cause some confusion  as it didnt exactly mirror Mr Gs portfolio so actual performance 
could be different to the performance shown  on the graph. I tend to agree with the 
adjudicator that with hindsight it might have been  better to concentrate  on the actual portfolio 
and its performance.  But I think Pen-Life  supplied the graphs in an attempt to be helpful. And 
Pen-Life did explain why the actual performance might not exactly  match  that shown on the 
graph. Pen-Life  also double  checked  with the provider  the fees that had been applied and 
shared those details  with Mr G. 
I can see that Mr G wasnt entirely  satisfied and had some  lingering doubts about whether 
his portfolio was in fact correct. Given all that had gone on, and the detailed level of analysis 
undertaken by Mr G and his desire to reconcile  everything fully, I can understand that hed 
lost confidence.  But Pen-Life investigated  Mr Gs queries  promptly and provided 
explanations which, in the main,  Mr G was satisfied with. Mr G hasnt pointed to anything 
Ref: DRN02848937specific, over and above the queries  he raised with Pen-Life, as to why the correct value 
might be wrong. From what Ive seen Mr G hasnt suffered any financial loss and I dont see 
that Pen-Life could have  done much more.  
By then Mr Gs relationship with Pen-Life had deteriorated further  and he complained.  But I 
find it difficult to say the situation which  had resulted was really Pen-Lifes fault. I think it all 
stemmed from the errors and difficulties  that the provider  had. I know  Mr Gs point  is that 
Pen-Life wasnt proactive  enough and failed to manage the situation with the provider on 
behalf of its mutual  clients. But from what Ive seen Pen-Life was liaising  with the provider.  
Id have thought a major provider would  have been  keen to rectify any problems as quickly  
as possible for its own business  objectives  and reputation. 
I also think Pen-Life updated Mr G as and when it could and when  it had some  news for him. 
It responded to his queries reasonably promptly, even if there  were  occasions when Mr G 
had to prompt. I understand that things didnt proceed at the pace Mr G expected or without 
the visible degree of oversight by Pen-Life  he may have expected. But ultimately the 
problem wasnt of Pen-Lifes making and rectifying  it was outside of Pen-Lifes  control.  It 
made what I consider  were reasonable efforts to ensure the issues  were resolved and that 
Mr G didnt suffer any financial detriment.  
Ive also looked  at how Pen-Life  handled Mr Gs complaint. It appears there were some 
misunderstandings. I can see why Pen-Life treated his email  of 8 May 2018 as a complaint. 
Essentially it met the definition set out in the regulators  handbook: Mr G had expressed  
dissatisfaction about the service  provided by Pen-Life and said that hed had suffered or 
might have suffered  a financial  loss. Mr G intended  the email  as a heads  up that he would 
be making a formal complaint. But what he said was enough  to amount to a complaint  as it 
stood and Pen-Life wasnt wrong  to treat it as such,  notwithstanding Mr G had said hed be 
providing further details.  
In its letter  of 10 May 2018 Pen-Life  set out what it understood the complaint to be. But Mr G 
said Pen-Life hadnt properly understood his complaint.  I can see why Pen-Life didnt take 
any further action  pending hearing further from Mr G. In saying that I note he did ask Pen-
Life to go ahead with the review it had suggested and so he was expecting that to have  been  
progressed. The upshot was that when  Mr G emailed Pen-Life about progress on 23 June 
2018 there hadnt been any. That may have caused Mr G further  frustration and 
disappointment. But I think  there was an element of mixed messages. In my view, it was 
reasonable for Pen-Life to hold off investigating and responding  until Mr G had set out 
exactly what he was complaining about. 
 
Mr G made  a formal complaint on 10 August 2018.  Pen-Lifes own complaint procedure  may 
have specified  a four week period which wasnt met. And Pen-Lifes final response  was a 
few days after the deadline Pen-Life had indicated and a couple of weeks  outside the eight 
week period allowed for in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules  set out in the regulators 
handbook (and taking  the date of Mr Gs complaint as 10 August 2018). 
But I cant say any of that justifies an award. Were  not the regulator  and we dont fine 
businesses for any breach of the DISP  rules. I cant see those, relatively minorl, delays 
would have caused Mr G any material distress or inconvenience.  And Pen-Life did have to 
liaise with the provider who, it seems, didnt deal with things as quickly as it could have 
done. Mr G did chase  up Pen-Life on 29 October 2018 but by then Pen-Lifes response  had 
been issued, even if Mr G had yet to receive it. 
Ref: DRN02848938Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G. But all in all I agree with the adjudicator that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld.   
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making  any award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0284893