K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  with how Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited has recorded two 
incidents of loss under his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr T has explained  that in 2018 when driving  his vehicle a pigeon  collided with it, causing 
substantial damage  to the front grille  area.  So, Mr T made a claim under his motor insurance 
policy. The claim was accepted, and the loss settled. But, Mr T was concerned with how the 
loss had been recorded by Markerstudy. He noted  this had been logged as a fault claim. 
But, he said that because  he wasnt to blame for the damage  it was a fortuitous incident  
he felt the way this had been recorded was unfair.
Markerstudy said it had recorded  this loss correctly. It said the claim was logged as a fault 
claim not because Mr T was to blame for the damage that occurred, but because  it wasnt 
able to recover any of the loss from a third party. Markerstudy noted that Mr T had the 
benefit of a protected no claims discount. So, this meant his no claims bonus wouldnt be 
affected by what  had happened  on this occasion.  
Mr T has also said that his vehicle was involved in another incident  later that year.  It was 
parked near a friends  house and when he returned  to it he noticed some damage to the 
vehicle. Mr T said he made some enquiries,  and feels that a courier van was responsible  for 
causing the damage. Mr T let Markerstudy know of the incident, but hadnt decided whether 
to make a claim or not. 
Markerstudy told Mr T the second  incident had been logged as notification only, as he 
hadnt made a claim at this stage. But it said this loss this would be noted  as a fault  claim 
should Mr T decide to make a claim for the loss. Mr T felt this was also unfair because he 
wasnt responsible  for causing the damage. So, he referred his complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He said that claims will be 
detailed as fault claims unless the insurer was able to recover  any outlay from a third party.  
But in both of the above incidents, our investigator said this wasnt  possible.  He was satisfied 
Mr H had been treated  the same as other customers would have been  in Mr Hs situation  
and that the approach Markerstudy  had taken was in line with standard industry  practice.
Because Mr T didnt  agree, this complaint  has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below. 
Mr T has explained  hes unhappy with the way in which  the incidents he experienced have 
been recorded by Markerstudy.  He feels the way theyve been  recorded is unreasonable,  
particularly because the damage  to his vehicle wasnt his fault on both occasions. So, Ive 
needed to consider whether the way in which Markerstudy has recorded these losses is fair, 
reasonable and in line with what I would expect to have happened.
Ref: DRN08370332Mr Ts policy explains what will happen in circumstances  where a claim is made, and the 
insurer isnt able to recover  its outlay. Section K  No claims discount says;
If you make a claim or if a claim is made  against you for an event which  you may not 
consider to be your fault and we have to make  a payment this will affect your No Claims 
Discount unless we can recover our outlay in full from the responsible party.
Given the above, Im aware Mr Ts policy does confirm that where a policyholder doesnt 
consider they were  responsible for the cause of a loss, but Markerstudy has to make 
payment this will affect the no claims discount,  unless it can recover its outlay.
Markerstudy has confirmed it recorded  the first incident, where a pigeon  damaged  the 
vehicle, as a bonus disallowed (fault)  claim.  And it has recorded the second incident  as 
notification only. Neither party  has disputed this is how the losses have been recorded.  And 
having looked at the evidence provided,  Im satisfied recording the losses in this way is fair.
I understand Mr T feels strongly  that he wasnt responsible for the damage to his vehicle on 
both occasions.  But its important for me to explain that the recording of a claim as a bonus  
disallowed claim doesnt necessarily mean  the policyholder is responsible,  or to blame,  for 
the incident that occurred.  Usually, an insurer will record  a claim as a bonus disallowed 
claim where its been unable to attach liability for an incident to a specific third party,  or 
because it has been unable to recover any outlay its had on a claim from another  party. 
Given the circumstances of the first loss Mr T suffered, Im satisfied that is the case  here.  
Because of this, I think Markerstudy acted reasonably in the way it recorded  this loss.
Im aware Markerstudy recorded the second  incident as notification  only, Because  Mr T 
only notified it of the loss, and didnt make a claim Im satisfied this was correct  too. 
Markerstudy has said that if Mr T did make  a claim for this incident this would be recorded as 
a bonus disallowed claim.  Based on the information currently received, that its not clear 
what is responsible  for the cause of the damage, and whether Markerstudy would be able to 
recover its outlay for this incident. But, this would need to be considered should Mr T make  a 
claim, based on the evidence gathered as part of that claim. So, I cant  comment  on this any 
further. Should Mr T make a claim,  and he is concerned with how the loss is recorded  then,  
he would  be able to raise his concerns about this. 
Mr T has raised  concerns  about how the incidents  will affect his no claims discount. 
Markerstudy has confirmed that Mr Ts no claims discount is protected.  And he is able to 
have two claims in a five year period  before this is impacted. Ive seen Mr Ts policy  
schedule, which would  have been provided to him when he purchased his insurance policy. 
And I can see it does explain this is the case.  So, I think Markerstudy  has given 
Mr T the correct information in respect of this.
I know Mr T is concerned that both losses are recorded on insurance databases, and they 
may impact his insurance premium in the future, whether he continues to insure his vehicle 
with Markerstudy or he goes elsewhere for cover. It is possible the losses will affect  Mr Ts 
insurance premium in the future. But, as Im satisfied Markerstudy has acted fairly and 
accurately in the way it has recorded  the losses, I dont think it has done  anything wrong in 
this respect. 
Ref: DRN08370333my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0837033