K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy that a claim  she made  under her income protection  policy with Aviva  Life 
& Pensions  UK Limited has been declined.
background
In late 2016 Miss H suffered a serious illness. She took some time away from work to
recover and then returned to her job on a phased return basis. During this period Miss H
continued to receive  her salary from her employer.  But in March 2017, she made a claim on
her income protection policy with Aviva. She said she found returning to work very difficult
and had been struggling to do everything  her job required.
Aviva accepted the claim and paid the benefit  available under the policy  for the period March
to early June 2017.
In June, Miss H completed  a claim continuation  form. She told Aviva she was unable  to
undertake certain  tasks  that had been  required by her previous role, but she did think shed
be able to work part-time  in a less physically demanding, more  administrative type role. As a
result of this information, the benefits  available under the policy  cease. Miss H returned to
work.
Miss H continued to work until December 2017 when again, she felt unable to continue.  She
saw her GP in January  2018 and was signed off as unfit to work from the previous
December. Miss H made a further  claim on her income protection policy.
Aviva declined the claim. In summary, it said there  was insufficient evidence to show  that
Miss Hs condition had deteriorated significantly from June 2017 when she said she was
able to work in a less physical, more administrative type role on a part time basis.
Miss H complained and Aviva arranged for her to be seen by an independent medical
examiner (IME). The IMEs report agreed that Miss H couldnt  fulfil her previous role but said
she was capable of working 16 hours per week in a more  sedentary  role. It referred to
difficulties with exhaustion and a fear of leaving  the house due to her health issues.
But Aviva went on to say that a review of Miss Hs social media  account  showed she had
been active during  the period she said she was unable to work.  The information
Aviva found  included Miss H taking  part in physical contact sport, travelling and undertaking
event promotion  and administration; many of the tasks Miss H and the IME had agreed she
was able to do.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold this complaint. She thought Aviva had acted
reasonably based on the information  it had received. But having been provided  with further
information from Miss H, she thought Aviva should accept the claim and make  proportionate
payment to Miss H on the basis that the IME report concluded Miss H could  only work
part time.
Aviva disagrees. It says it doesnt accept that Miss H is eligible for any benefit.  It had sent 
the social media information  to the IME who amended  his findings. He decided  Miss H had
misrepresented her symptoms and could work  full time in an administrative type
role.
Ref: DRN07621452Miss H disagrees. She says shes struggling with on-going neurological symptoms which
leave her with severe fatigue, memory difficulties and problems  with concentration, anxiety
and confusion. She also says the information from her social media account isnt
representative of the problems shes facing  and says Aviva  is relying on information which
covered the period when  she was working   up until December 2017. She accepted  our
investigators proposal of a proportionate  benefit.
Because the parties disagree, its for me to make  a final determination on this case.
I issued a provisional decision on this case and include my provisional findings here as it 
forms part of my determination. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken account of the terms of
Miss Hs policy  and industry standards.
I have no doubt  Miss H has been through a very difficult  and upsetting  time and I have every
sympathy for her situation. But based  on everything Ive seen I think Aviva has acted
reasonably in declining her claim.
Because I disagree  with the findings made  by our investigator, Im giving both parties an
opportunity to comment on my provisional findings  and provide any further information for
me to consider. I will focus my findings on the information I consider key to this case  rather
than on everything thats been provided.
The policy terms
Miss Hs policy  has a deferred period of one month and covers  Miss H on a suited 
occupation basis. The applicable term in Miss Hs policy  says 
In paid occupation
..we will treat you as being incapacitated if, and for as long as you are unable,  
because of illness or injury to perform the material and substantial duties of your  
own occupation and the material and substantial duties of any occupation  to which  
you are reasonably suited  as a result of your  education, training and experience and 
you are not carrying out any other occupation.
This means  that Miss H would need  to be unable to work in any occupation for which she is
suited and she cannot be carrying out any other occupation in order  to raise a successful
claim.
Aviva consider the information it has shows Miss H could work in a suited occupation and
had been carrying  out activities similar  to those required for a suited  occupation.
For clarity,  the period in question is December  2017 to May 2018  when this complaint was
referred to this service   and I intend  to focus  on the evidence for this period when
reaching my decision.
Ref: DRN07621453Medical evidence
Ive seen several letters from Miss Hs consultant neurologist. The letters cover the period
November 2016  to January 2018 and relate to on-going  neurological reviews  following
Miss Hs discharge from hospital.
The letter I consider of most relevance to the circumstances of this complaint is dated
05 January 2018.  In that letter the consultant  says The seizures  continue  to occur in
clusters but the clusters  are now more widely apart; at least  six weeks  apart if not longer.
She is not having  any seizures when awake  but they tend to occur  now if she goes off to
sleep. It goes on to say I was sorry to hear that the DVLA had declined her application  for
driving licence  despite  the seizures  not impairing consciousness.  The letter  confirms  that its
been decided  to increase  Miss Hs medication in line with information  previously issued to
her. The consultant confirms that the next review  would  be scheduled in 6 months  time.
This letter does  not suggest an exacerbation of Miss Hs symptoms  or the need for more
regular neurological  reviews.
Miss Hs GP notes from this time in January 2018 confirm  that her medication was
increased. The notes  say seizures  settling, I wonder if current symptoms side effect from
increasing [medication], no red flags requiring urgent assessment today
The GP issued a certificate  saying the Miss H wasnt  fit to work. And from the information
Ive received, Miss H continued to be signed off by her GP until late August  2018.
IME report
In April 2018, Aviva arranged for Miss H to see an IME. The initial IME report  included
information Miss H shared  with the doctor.
Miss H told the doctor she was still suffering from on-going problems with her health
including regular seizures. She also said she suffered  with short  term memory problems,
difficulty retaining things  and gets anxious.  The report  also includes reference to day to day
fatigue and being tired all the time.
It goes on to say that [Miss H] is able to walk about  mile and gets worried  about  leaving
the house.
And she told the doctor she would not really be able to do a normal days  housework as this
would tire her considerably
The report  concludes that Miss H could  work  part time in a sedentary  role eg an
administrative role, in the region of 16 hours a week, initially undertaking duties  which did not
cause her significant stress.
Internet search
As part of its review into Miss Hs claim, an internet search was conducted  by Aviva.  
Ref: DRN07621454The information Aviva  found relating to Miss H is an important factor in the decision its taken 
to decline Miss Hs claim. The information  included:
Miss Hs social  media account  which lists her occupation as a landlady of a pub she 
co-owns with a member of her family.
In February 2018 Miss H posted  a comment relating  to an event at the same  pub and 
includes reference to rude not to stay after my shift and enjoy some tunes
which Aviva  say shows Miss H was working  at the same venue or another venue.
Photographs  of Miss H taking  part in a sports match. The photographs  show Miss H,
wearing the team kit, running and tackling  other  players. This was dated February
2018. This posting correlates with the fixtures  list for the team Miss H says shed
previously played  for.
Miss H says the information isnt representative  of her circumstances.
Aviva sent the internet search information to the IME. And in his response, he said Miss  H is
considerably more active than she portrayed to me when  I saw her for clinical
assessment.... He went on to say she could work considerably more  hours  than stated I
am now of the opinion  that she could work full time in an occupation to which she is suited
by way of training, education or experience  having said that he believed she
misrepresented her restrictions/disabilities/limitations.
In summary
Its important to say that my consideration of this complaint is not to decide if Miss H was
well enough to work during the period of her claim.  My consideration is whether Aviva has
acted reasonably given the specific circumstances of this case. Industry standards expect
an insurer to handle  claims promptly and fairly  and not to unreasonably  decline  a claim. In
the circumstances of this complaint, based  on everything Ive seen, I think Aviva  has acted
reasonably.
I understand the concerns  raised  by Miss H about the internet review conducted by Aviva,
and in particular  her concerns about postings and activities  that took place outside of the
period of the claim. I accept that information posted  on social media  doesnt  necessarily
represent a full picture of someones  situation  but as this information is in the public domain,
I cant reasonably expect Aviva to ignore  information its found which it believes is valid in
the assessment  of a claim. Its position is that up until December 2017, Miss H was involved
in activities which align  to the activities of a suited occupation  and Miss H confirms  she
was working at this time. It also believes postings after December 2017  show that Miss H
continue to undertake  similar activities and was more active  than shed reported.
From December 2017, the medical  evidence, although confirming Miss H is still suffering
from symptoms  of a neurological condition, is limited  in terms of the impact on Miss H and
her ability to meet the terms of the policy. And although Miss Hs GP decided she was unfit
to work for several months, and has continued  to support her with this claim, an
important consideration is that the GPs decision is based on what Miss H herself  has
reported. And given  the IMEs comments,  questions  have  been raised about the credibility
of Miss Hs testimony. Without evidence to show that Miss Hs condition  deteriorated
towards the end of 2017 and meant she was unable to work in a suited occupation, I cannot
say shes met the terms of the policy.
I invited both parties to provide any further information they wanted me to consider.
Ref: DRN07621455Further representations
Miss H made further representations and in summary, asked me to consider the following:
She thinks Aviva hasnt considered the letter from January 2018  in full and has 
focussed on the aspects that support its decision to reject her claim.
Shes said she cant prove the seizures  she experiences  unless she calls an 
ambulance each time which  she chooses not to do.
Aviva  has rejected its own IMEs report which says she is limited  in the number of 
hours she can work
She doesnt think its reasonable for Aviva to rely on the social  media information and 
as such, she should  be entitled  to proportionate benefit.  
She says she only played  in the sports match, for a very short time, because it was a 
memorial event   and had to stop playing when she suffered a seizure. Miss H says 
taking part in the match doesnt  mean she can hold down a full-time job.
She confirms she completed a voluntary  shift at the pub to see if she could work 
behind a bar as an alternative occupation  but was unwell the next day.
She believes Avivas interpretation of the policy terms  is incorrect.
Miss H also provided a letter from a neurological  nurse  specialist whos seen Miss H 
since her illness. This letter confirms we would expect her to experiencefatigue, 
headaches and memory issues which could last as long as two to three  years .  It 
goes on to explain that it wouldnt be possible to prove Miss Hs seizure activity as 
patients  do not always get warnings and confirms that some  patient could go 
weeks without a seizure and then have  several within  one week.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I did prior to issuing my provisional decision,  Ive thought  very carefully  about  the 
information and evidence provided by both parties, including the most recent comments  
made by Miss H. And based on what Ive seen, Miss Hs further representations dont 
change my mind about the outcome of this complaint.
In these circumstances, the burden is placed  on the policy holder to show they have a valid 
claim which meets the terms of the policy. And given the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied 
Avivas position - that Miss Hs hasnt proved she has a valid claim - is reasonable. But I 
know Miss H will be very disappointed by that. 
Its important for me to say that when considering the letter  from January  2018, there is 
nothing in the letter which specifically refers to Miss Hs ability or inability to work. The letter  
does refer to her being in the middle of a cluster of seizures but refers to the seizures as 
tending to occur if she goes off to sleep  with the clusters being about  6 weeks  apart .  
Because of that I can understand why Aviva  doesnt think  this letter  supports Miss Hs 
position that shes unable to work, despite the letter showing she was suffering on-going 
neurological symptoms.
And in terms of the IME report, while the original report  suggested  Miss Hs ability to work 
was limited to 16 hours a week, the IME changed  his mind and subsequently told Aviva he 
thought Miss H could  work full time. Based on that I dont think  Aviva has been unreasonable  
in saying the IMEs revised  report doesnt  support Miss Hs claim.
Ref: DRN07621456Proportionate benefit
Miss H has said she thinks she should  be entitled  to a proportionate benefit   as the original 
IME report said she could only work 16 hours  per week. But that isnt how the proportionate 
benefit works. The policy terms say  
Proportionate benefit
If you are unable  to return to the paid occupation in which you were engaged prior 
to the incapacity but return to another  occupation and are on a lower gross income, 
we will consider paying you a proportionate  benefit.  The  payment of this is 
conditional on you remaining unable, as a result of the incapacity, to carry out the 
material and substantial duties  of your former occupation.
Miss H has said she stopped working  in December 2017  and has provided GP certificates 
in support of that. But as she hasnt been working, the proportionate benefit isnt available  to 
her. I appreciate its a benefit within the policy, but I dont consider it reasonable to tell Aviva 
to make a payment  just because a different term in the policy carries a financial  benefit, 
when the terms  of that benefit have not been met.
I know Miss H will be upset and disappointed  by this decision and I recognise  and appreciate 
the very difficult circumstances shes faced.  In my provisional decision I explained that its 
not for me to decide if Miss H is unable to work; Im not a medical practitioner. My role is to 
decide if Aviva has acted reasonably in its decision to decline the claim based on the 
information its seen.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont  be asking Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited do anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0762145