K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs G are complaining about  Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds emergency 
repair to their boiler under their home emergency  insurance.
Background
On 18 December 2018 Mr and Mrs Gs boiler broke down. Mr and Mrs G could be described 
as vulnerable customers because of their age and Mrs Gs state of health. They contacted 
Admiral to arrange for an engineer to visit.
On 19 December an engineer visited, diagnosed a failed pump, and switched off the boiler. 
Mr G called Admiral  to say the engineer had told them not to use the boiler. Admiral 
explained that alternative accommodation and a heating allowance  which theyd  not 
referred to during Mr Gs first call  were available, but Mr G said they could manage  for the 
night although  it was very cold.
On 20 December a different  engineer  visited with a new pump,  but he didnt  have all the 
parts he needed  to replace it. He said the pressure release valve  also needed replacing. The 
boiler was firing up at that time. On 22 December he visited  again. He ran the boiler,  drained  
it and replaced the pump and pressure release valve. However, when he came to turn on the 
boiler after the repair it wouldnt fire up.
Mr G emailed Admiral  to say the boiler now wasnt working at all, but they didnt reply. 
Mr and Mrs G called their own engineer who attended but was unable to do anything  until 
after the Christmas period. On 24 December Mr and Mrs G called out another emergency  
engineer who was also unable to fix the boiler. This cost them  £180.
On 26 December Mr G called Admirals  agents and spoke to an adviser  who said theyd look 
into things. He didnt  receive a call back so he emailed Admiral  to say that unless he was 
contacted by 10am the following day hed take action  himself. On 27 December his email 
was acknowledged  but he wasnt given any more information  about when thered be another  
visit from an engineer. Mr and Mrs G arranged for their own engineer  to visit again. He said 
the boiler needed a new control panel which would take several days to source.
On 28 December Mr and Mrs G arranged for a new boiler to be installed at a cost of £800.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to Admiral. They said that during the visit on 22 December 
Admirals engineer hadnt drained the boiler properly, which  led to water  splashing onto the 
control panel and onto the floor. They said the water  damage to the control panel is what led 
to the boiler not switching on after the pump  had been replaced, when it had been working 
beforehand. They provided a report from their own engineer  which said that the control panel 
had been damaged by water ingress.
Admiral looked into Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. After  hearing from their engineer they said 
that the boiler had been drained properly and thered  been  no leakage  of water onto the 
floor. They said that the boiler was leaking internally and the control  panel  could have  been  
damaged by that. They offered Mr and Mrs G £90 for poor service,  £50 to reflect  that they 
didnt offer a heating  allowance  when they should  have, and a further  £40 for delays and 
failed call backs. I understand this has now been paid to Mr and Mrs G.
Ref: DRN04815332Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Admirals response and brought the complaint to us. They 
said they had no choice but to replace the boiler after being without heating and hot water.  
And they thought Admiral should  meet the cost of the new boiler.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  He felt it was likely  that Admirals  
engineer had damaged the control  panel when  replacing the failed pump  and this had led to 
Mr and Mrs G being  without heating  and hot water  over the Christmas period. But he didnt 
think Admiral should  meet the cost of the new boiler, as it looked  like it was still possible for 
the boiler to be repaired  at the time Mr and Mrs G chose to replace it.
He asked Admiral to pay £300 in compensation, which could be put towards  the new boiler,  
to refund the £180 call out charge for the emergency  engineer  on 24 December, and to 
refund £29.50 which theyd asked Mr and Mrs G to pay when the policy  limit of £500  was 
exceeded due to the number of visits the engineer had made.
Admiral and Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the investigators findings.  
Admiral said that the home emergency  policy didnt  cover a new boiler, so they didnt think 
they should contribute to the cost. 
Mr and Mrs G said,  in summary:
Admiral believed the engineer over them and so are accusing them  of acting 
fraudulently;
The investigator didnt  say what action they should have taken as an alternative to 
replacing the boiler; and
Admiral should take responsibility for the mistakes of agents instructed  by them.
The complaints now been passed  to me for review and a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the outcome the investigators already proposed  is fair. I appreciate  
that both parties  will be disappointed by this, so Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN04815333Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs G and Admiral have said and provided 
about how the control panel was damaged. I understand why Mr and Mrs G are frustrated 
that Admiral didnt accept  their engineer  caused the damage to the control panel. But I dont  
think they meant to imply that Mr and Mrs G were acting fraudulently by saying that they 
thought he did. And I agree that Admiral are responsible  for the actions of the engineer they 
instructed.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the control  panel  was damaged by water.  Mr G says this 
was due to the engineer draining the boiler  in a way which  leaked  water over the electrics in 
the boiler and onto the floor. But the engineer says he didnt leak any water  onto the control 
panel, and the water damage was caused by an internal leak in the boiler.
But it does  seem that the boiler could be switched  on directly before the pump was replaced 
but couldnt be afterwards. There doesnt appear  to have been anything wrong with the 
control panel before the engineers visit on 22 December, because  the boiler was able to run 
up until then. I think if there was a problem  with the control panel before the attempted  repair 
it would  have been noticed  because  the boiler wouldnt have fired up.
I dont think I can say for certain how the water  damage to the control panel happened.  But I 
think the circumstances and evidence suggest  its more likely than not that it occurred  during  
the engineers  visit on 22 December. So, I think its something that Admiral  should have 
been responsible for putting  right.
There was a delay  of five days between Mr G telling Admiral the boiler now wasnt running at 
all and their acknowledgement of his email, which didnt say when an engineer would be 
able to attend. So its not unreasonable  that he took matters into his own hands by calling 
out his own engineer in the meantime.
At the time Mr and Mrs G chose to replace the boiler theyd been without heating and hot 
water for around ten days over the Christmas period. Theyd chosen not to take advantage 
of the offer of alternative accommodation or heating allowance offered on 19 December, but 
at that time it looked like the boiler would be fixed much sooner than it was. So, I fully 
appreciate why Mr and Mrs G decided to replace the boiler  when they did. But at the time, 
their own engineer thought it could still be repaired. It looks  like replacing  the boiler was, 
however, quicker  than waiting for the replacement parts.  
Turning to Mr and Mrs Gs point about  what they should have done, its not for us to say 
whether Mr and Mrs G should have replaced  the boiler or waited for the parts, but to make 
sure that fair compensation is provided  for what did happen. Ultimately  Mr and Mrs G chose 
to replace the boiler rather than wait for the replacement parts to arrive. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to do this in the circumstances  - but that doesnt mean it would be fair 
to ask Admiral to meet the full cost of the replacement boiler. This is because it looks like a 
repair would still have  been possible once the parts had been sourced. 
Putting things  right
I think it would be fair for Admiral to pay compensation which reflects  the additional trouble 
and upset caused to Mr and Mrs G which led to their decision to replace the boiler. I say this 
because if the control  panel hadnt  been  damaged during the engineers visit of 22 
December then it seems likely  replacing  the pump  and pressure valve would have solved the 
problem earlier. And Admiral didnt contact  Mr and Mrs G over the Christmas  period to 
indicate when  this would be resolved. So, Mr and Mrs G spent longer without heating and 
Ref: DRN04815334hot water  than they should have, which led to them  deciding they couldnt wait any longer for 
a replacement control panel.
As Admiral have pointed  out, the policy doesnt cover a replacement boiler. But the 
investigator didnt  conclude that Admiral  should pay for the boiler under the terms of the 
policy. Hes explained that the award  of £300  is compensation which could be put towards 
the cost of the boiler. And I think £300  is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances.
The investigators also recommended that Admiral reimburse £29.50  it charged  Mr and 
Mrs G for exceeding the call out limit, and £180 they paid to an emergency engineer on 
24 December. I think this is fair, because if Admirals  engineer had identified all the parts that 
needed replacing during the first visit its likely  the repair would have been attempted in the 
second visit rather than a third visit being  required which led to the £500 limit being 
exceeded. And the cost of the emergency engineer on 24 December  wouldnt  have  been  
incurred if the damage  to the control  panel hadnt happened.
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should make the following 
payments to Mr and Mrs G:
Refund £29.50 with simple interest  at 8% per annum  from the date Mr and Mrs G 
paid this until the date of settlement;
Refund £180 engineers call out fee with simple interest at 8% per annum from the 
date Mr and Mrs G paid this until the date of settlement; and
Pay Mr and Mrs G £300 to compensate them for the trouble and upset theyve 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2020.
Helen Sutcliffe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0481533