K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C say Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold them a regular premium payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Yorkshire Building Society was trading as Chelsea Building Society  (CBS) at the time. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to CBS as the lender in my decision. 
background 
Mr and Mrs C made  a complaint to CBS that they were mis-sold PPI alongside their 
mortgage. CBS didnt agree so Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold.  Mr and 
Mrs C didnt agree so the complaint was passed  to me. I wrote a provisional decision in 
which I explained I didnt  think  the policy had been mis-sold. But that Mr and Mrs C were still 
due a refund  of part of the premiums.  My provisional  decision read as follows:
Mr and Mrs C applied for their mortgage  in February  2002.  In the application form, there  was 
a separate section for insurance in which they were  given three options for PPI. They could 
take out the cover, decline it completely or say theyd like to make their own arrangements  to 
take out PPI. Mr and Mrs C selected to make their own arrangements  for the cover. Around 
a month  later,  Mr and Mrs C took out PPI with CBS during  a telephone call. They selected 
the accident and sickness policy to cover  Mr C only.  
CBS no longer has a copy of the call recording, which  isnt surprising since the call 
happened around 16 years ago. But it has given  me a copy  of the call script that was in use 
at the time. Looking  at this, I can see PPI was offered to Mr and Mrs C, but I think it was still 
clear they could decline the policy if they didnt want it. And as they were  previously  given 
the option to take or leave  the PPI, I think  it follows  they would still have been aware of that 
during the telephone call. So, considering everything, I think  CBS made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
CBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
Mr C. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs C got the information they needed to decide  if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Mr C had previously been self-employed, but looking at the mortgage  application he 
stopped being self-employed in June 2001. This is further evidenced by the self-employed 
section of the application form being crossed out.
CBS has given me a copy of the declaration form that was completed by a CBS 
representative during the phone call in which PPI was sold. This shows  Mr Cs pre-existing 
medical condition  was discussed at the time. In the call script, it shows the representative 
was required to let Mr C know  this PEMC  wouldnt be covered under  the terms of the policy. 
So I think its more likely  this discussion happened  during  the phone  call. So I think CBS 
gave Mr C clear  information about  the exclusion relating to his PEMC.
The policy couldve  covered  Mr C if he was too ill to work or had an accident for up to 
12 months per claim. And that wouldve been  in addition to his sick pay. It also looks like the 
Ref: DRN02058542PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information about the PPI would  have put 
Mr and Mrs C off taking out the cover. 
commission offer
CBS has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because CBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, CBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs C nor CBS responded to my provisional decision with any additional 
comments or evidence for me to consider. Because of this, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
what the business needs  to do
CBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. CBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs C any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
CBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. CBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax 
if Mr C doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
I dont agree that the PPI policy was mis-sold.
But Yorkshire Building Society will pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205854