K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a mortgage that 
started in 2000.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Mr O mainly says he was told to sign the forms and take the insurance and he thought he 
had to have it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
Its understandable  that Mr O mightnt be able to remember in detail  everything  that 
happened when  he arranged the PPI. This was a long time ago and so what  he says isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  the complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely  taking  into account  all the information  Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr Os mortgage application  includes a section which gives  brief details about  the benefits  of 
PPI and Mr O has signed  where it says:  Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance.
And, at the same time, he completed and signed a separate application form to have the PPI 
added on to his mortgage account. 
I cant be sure exactly how Halifax explained  PPI to Mr O during the meeting when he 
arranged it. But, looking at the paperwork he signed at the time, I think  he wouldve been  
aware that it was up to him to apply for the PPI if hed wanted  to have it. 
The mortgage was a long term financial  commitment  and Mr Os home couldve been at risk 
if he found himself unexpectedly  unable  to keep up the monthly mortgage repayments. 
I think its more likely that Mr O decided he wanted  to protect his home by taking advantage 
of the benefits  that PPI offered and he chose to buy the policy. 
Halifax says it recommended  the PPI to Mr O. If a financial  business  makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way.
Mr O was eligible for the PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN04268932Ive taken into account what Mr O told us about his work benefits and his financial 
circumstances at the time. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months  per claim if he was unable to work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment.  This was significantly longer than Mr O 
couldve relied on getting sick pay. And PPI wouldve  paid out in addition  to his sick pay from 
work  giving him a useful benefit at whats likely to have been  a difficult  time, especially if 
he had extra costs  as a result of illness  or disability.
Ive taken into account that Mr O had some savings at the time.  But I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim. And the policy  paid 
out for longer than the amount of savings hes mentioned wouldve lasted if hed had to rely 
on these to cover his outgoings when he was unable to work.  
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. This gave Mr O long term protection  for his 
mortgage. Having  PPI meant Mr O could be sure hed be able to meet his mortgage 
commitment. So I think the policy  couldve been  useful to him. And it looks  like that turned 
out to be the case as Mr O told us hed made  a successful  claim on the policy.  
The cost of the policy was set out on the PPI application and it seems  Mr O found this 
acceptable. He chose a benefit  level that covered his mortgage  monthly  repayments.  And 
Mr O also took out some  extra benefit  to cover some other  costs  as well. So I think Halifax  
did make  Mr O aware that hed be paying  for PPI and Ive seen nothing  to suggest the policy 
wasnt affordable for him. 
Its possible  some of the information  Halifax gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Os case. So, I dont think having more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to take it out. I think it unlikely Mr O 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been  provided. On balance 
I think he still wouldve  taken out the policy.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  everything that Mr O has said in response  
to the adjudicators view. But, on balance, I dont find theres enough  information  for me to 
say that Halifax  mis-sold  PPI to Mr O. 
Looked at overall, it doesnt  look as if Mr O has lost out as a result of anything  Halifax 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN04268933my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0426893