K820x#14complaint
Ms P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
I sent Ms P and Bank of Scotland my provisional decision on 15 November 2018 explaining 
why I was intending to uphold Ms Ps complaint and the direction I was intending to make.
I said before  I made my final decision Id consider anything  further  the parties wanted to 
send me so long as I received it before 15 December 2018.
Ive not received any further points from Ms P or Bank of Scotland in response  to my 
provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms Ps case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ps complaint because Bank of Scotland  recommended  the policy  
to Ms P but I dont think it was right for her. I say this because Ms P has said she was 
entitled to sick pay from her employer of full pay for up to 12 months. I dont know if she 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay of quite  this amount. But she had been with her employer 
for over ten years at the time, and I accept its plausible that Ms P wouldve been entitled to 
good sick pay at the time. I can also see that she held savings. And I think, overall, that 
given her circumstances,  she couldve managed  without the MPPI for long enough to not 
really need it.
I dont think Ms P wouldve bought the policy if Bank of Scotland had made  clear  it wasnt  
right for her. So, I think Ms P has lost out because of what Bank of Scotland  did wrong.
Ref: DRN06044722putting things right
Bank of Scotland should put Ms P in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Bank of Scotland should:
Pay Ms P the amount  she paid each  month  for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.*
If Ms P made a successful claim under the MPPI  policy, Bank of Scotland can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.  
Bank of Scotland must give Ms P a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0604472