K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as EGG) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a credit card in 2000.
background
EGG was an internet  based  account.  Mr E applied online for his credit  card with PPI via the 
EGG website.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Hes mainly concerned that it wasnt made clear to him that taking out the PPI was optional 
and he also told us he didnt need  PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. 
I think EGG  made Mr E aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mr E completed he had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No and his application  wouldve continued  without PPI being 
included if hed done that. Mr E had to select one of those options to proceed with his 
application. So I think he wouldve been  aware  that it was up to him to say if he wanted the 
PPI at the time - even  if hes forgotten this now. 
On balance, I find Mr E knew he had a choice about  protecting his repayments  and he 
wanted to do so at the time.  
EGG didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr E so it didnt  have  to check if it was suitable for him.
Ive taken into account what Mr E has told us about his financial circumstances. The policy  
wouldve protected him if hed lost his job as well as paying out if he was disabled or too sick 
to work. It wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay and in full for longer than hes mentioned 
he couldve  depended on getting  full pay from his employer if he was off sick. So I think  the 
PPI couldve given  him a useful  benefit at what mightve been a difficult  time  especially if 
he had extra costs  as a result of being off work sick. 
The PPI wouldve more  than covered  his EGG  card monthly repayments and cleared his 
card balance if hed needed to claim for the full 12 months. So I cant say Mr E couldnt  have 
benefitted from having the policy.  
It doesnt look like Mr E wouldve been caught  by any of the conditions  which  limited  the 
policys cover for some  people.  So, even  if these werent mentioned,  I dont think that 
knowing more about things the policy didnt  cover wouldve made any difference  to Mr Es 
decision to take the policy out. 
Ref: DRN01843422Next to where Mr E was asked to decide about  the PPI on the application he completed, the 
purpose of the cover  is broadly  described, the cost is set out and theres some information 
about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Mr E with the protection  broadly  described 
on the website  which hed indicated he was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing to suggest  
the policy was unaffordable for him when he took it out.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr E still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.
This means  I dont  find that Mr E has lost out as a result of anything that EGG mightve done 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0184342