K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about a boiler he bought using a loan from Clydesdale Financial  Services 
Limited trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance (Barclays). He says the boiler has broken down 
numerous times and been repaired under warranty.  He doesnt think  the boiler supplied was 
fit for purpose and may not have been  new when fitted.  He wants  Barclays  to pay for a 
replacement boiler.
 
background
Mr N had the boiler installed in late 2014 by business A. It came with a 10 year warranty   
provided he had an annual service carried out. 
Mr N says that almost immediately there were problems, and these kept re-occurring. That 
left him and his family without hot water and heating on several  occasions,  mainly in the 
winter months. All of the replacement parts  and work were  covered by Mr Ns warranty.
Mr N complained to A. He wanted  the boiler replaced. An engineer  and supervisor looked at 
the boiler. They said the boiler was working satisfactorily in early 2018,  so it wouldnt replace 
it. Unhappy about  this, and anticipating  that the boiler would break  down again  once winter 
arrived, Mr N approached  Barclays and asked it to pay to replace the boiler,  as he doesnt 
think its fit for purpose. Mr N is able to do that under  s75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Barclays said that as the boiler was working,  it wouldnt replace it. In recognition of the 
trouble and upset  the breakdowns had caused  it sent Mr N £50.
Mr N doesnt think this is fair, so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator said, in summary, that as the boiler was working, she couldnt ask Barclays 
to do more than it had. She explained  that Barclays  had said Mr Ns complaint was upheld  
because it was paying him £50 for his inconvenience, rather  than because  it agreed the 
boiler wasnt fit for purpose.
Mr N says £50 isnt enough given all the trouble the boilers caused.  And he says Barclays 
didnt give him a chance to say that, as it just sent the £50 to his bank  account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A went into administration some  time after Mr N bought the boiler. That can happen when a 
company cant continue for financial reasons.  However, some of As business was sold on to 
another company  B  in 2017. It appears  B is now responsible for Mr Ns warranty,  and its 
undertaken some of the recent repairs. It also appears it uses the same trading name as A 
did  so Mr N may not have noticed the change.
I can see Mr N has had a lot of problems with this boiler,  and I do understand why hes 
concerned he and his family will continue to have problems each winter.
Weve recently been sent a list of the repairs that have been undertaken and the dates.  The 
company operating the warranty says the problems are the manufacturers responsibility and 
Ref: DRN01957592it wont replace the boiler. I cant comment on that because this decision is about what  
Barclays should do  not B. 
This is the list weve received:
21/11/14 - Leak from condensate pipe - installation  fault
10/02/16 - Annual  service
13/11/16 - Leaking pressure valve - warranty fault
19/09/17 - Leaking pressure valve - warranty fault
28/09/17 - Annual  service
28/09/17 - Fit pressure  gauge - warranty fault
22/01/18 - No heating/hot water - warranty  visit
26/01/18 - Fit new PCB - warranty fault
Ive thought carefully about whether a new boiler  should have so many  problems   and if the 
ones Ive seen  listed suggest the boiler  isnt fit for purpose.
I dont think the first problem is anything  to do with the boiler  its marked  as an installation 
fault. Thats not satisfactory, but isnt something  thats likely to cause  future problems now 
its fixed.
The next two repairs seem to be for the same  part. That suggests a possible problem with a 
specific component rather  than the boiler overall.  The fourth repair  was on the same day as 
an annual service, so I cant tell if it was done because  the boiler stopped working  or the 
engineer spotted  that the gauge might be faulty.  But I dont think  that affects my decision.  
Finally a circuit board was replaced  in early 2018.  
I understand that since the last repair the boiler  has operated  satisfactorily. That suggests 
the final repair has resolved things for Mr N. 
Whilst I agree four repairs  in less than two years is a lot, I dont think  it necessarily  means 
the boiler isnt fit for purpose. And I dont think I can ask Barclays  to do much more than it 
has. In circumstances such as these the first option  for Barclays would be to repair the 
boiler. Thats already  been done by B. I appreciate Mr Ns concerns that things might  go 
wrong again, but I cant ask Barclays to compensate Mr N for possible future problems   I 
can only ask it to put right something thats gone wrong. 
I dont think Barclays letter was very helpful  as it did said it was upholding Mr Ns complaint 
 which  was mostly about the boiler breaking  down, as well as the problem of having no 
heating or hot water  on several occasions. So I do understand why that was confusing for 
Mr N. Instead  it appears the reason for saying it was upholding Mr Ns complaint was 
because hed been inconvenienced  by having to have the boiler repaired. Barclays  sent Mr 
N £50 to make up for that.
Taking everything into account,  including the fact that repairs  seem  to have been done  
whenever Mr N reported  a fault, I think this was a fair amount to pay.
I can see Mr N isnt happy that Barclays sent the £50 to his account before he got the letter  
about it. And I do take his point that he wasnt given an option to say whether he thought that 
was a fair amount or not. He doesnt  seem to have contacted Barclays  about  that, so if he 
wishes to complain about this point he is free to do so. For clarity that would be a complaint 
Ref: DRN01957593about the lack of a chance  to say if he agreed with the compensation or not, rather than the 
amount itself. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, as I think Barclays  has treated Mr N fairly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0195759