K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that mortgage advice they was given in September  2005 by 
a representative  of Legal & General Partnership  Services Limited (L&G)  was unsuitable. 
They are asking for financial compensation.
background
In September  2005 Mr and Mrs S were  given mortgage advice by L&G. At the time they had 
a repayment mortgage of about £68,000  which was on an interest rate of 5.25%. Mr and 
Mrs S also had unsecured  debts  of about  £13,260, which were costing them  about  £400 per 
month. This left them with only £83 per month disposable income.
After taking advice  from L&G they took out a mortgage  with a new lender for £85,100, also 
on a repayment  basis. The first two years  of the mortgage were at a fixed rate of 4.490%. 
They paid off their unsecured  debt from the mortgage advance,  increasing their disposable 
income by £312,  to £395 per month.
Mr and Mrs S now say that this advice  wasnt suitable. They didnt  think  it was right to advise 
them to consolidate  their unsecured debt into the mortgage. They are also unhappy about 
what they say is a lack of transparency about  the fees. In particular, they note that on 
completion the lender would be paying the broker a fee of £382.95, a proportion of which 
would be retained  by L&G. Mr and Mrs S want a breakdown of this as they say it is their 
money which has paid this fee.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint so Mr and Mrs S brought it to us, where  an investigator 
looked at it. He was satisfied  that the advice to consolidate the unsecured  debt was suitable,  
given Mr and Mrs Ss lack of disposable income.  He was also satisfied that the fees were set 
out in the documents  provided at the point of sale. The investigator explained to Mr and Mrs 
S that L&G was under  no obligation to disclose how the fee was split between  it and the 
broker.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators  findings in relation to the fee of £382.95.they 
say:  It  was never divulged to us which party received what amount so that isn't exercising 
clarity and fairness.  It implies there  was something  to hide. Considering  this was a client's 
(our) money,  it actually  feels  quite  dubious and dishonest. I don't understand why they 
couldn't state why. Simply  responding that they didn't have to isn't really good  enough  when 
I asked them  for a breakdown of the figures.
As this matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S havent challenged the investigators  findings on the mortgage advice. They 
seem to be concerned  only with a fee paid by the lender (not by Mr and Mrs S) to the broker. 
They are insisting that they are entitled to know how this was split between  the broker and 
L&G.
Ref: DRN04099222But I will address the suitability of the mortgage  advice, for completeness.  I see that two 
years before Mr and Mrs S took out this mortgage theyd already remortgaged,  in 2003. At 
that time they consolidated unsecured debts of just under £30,000  a credit card, two 
secured loans, car finance and an overdraft.  
Two years later, in 2005, Mr and Mrs S were in the position of having taken out additional 
unsecured debt, to the point where they had only £83 per month  disposable income. They  
were on a tracker rate, and between 2003  and 2005 the Bank  of England  Base Rate had 
risen five times. 
I think, given Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, the advice to take out the new mortgage and 
consolidate their unsecured debt was not unsuitable.  Interest rates were rising  and their 
exposure to further  interest rate increases meant  they were likely  to fall into arrears if they 
had not taken steps to reduce their monthly  outgoings  substantially.
In fact, after they took out the mortgage,  the Bank  of England Base Rate  increased a further  
five times over the next two years.  If they had not remortgaged, I think  this would have left 
Mr and Mrs S in serious financial difficulties.
Overall, taking into account Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, Im satisfied that the 
advice was suitable.
As far as the fees Mr and Mrs S were required to pay are concerned, these are set out in the 
documentation. They  were  an integral  part of the transaction, covering the arrangement  fee 
for the mortgage,  a valuation fee, a broker fee and solicitors  fees.
But Mr and Mrs S are concerned that a fee of £382.95 paid by the lender to the broker and 
L&G has not been broken  down. Mr and Mrs S are incorrect in their assumption that this fee 
has been paid out of their  money as it was not deducted as part of the mortgage advance  
and so has not been paid by them, but was paid directly by the lender. 
As this wasnt a fee paid by Mr and Mrs S, theyre  not entitled to any information  about how 
the fee was split between  the broker and L&G. Im satisfied L&G is under no obligation to 
provide a breakdown, as it is commercially sensitive,  relating to the business arrangement 
between lender and broker.
Overall, Im satisfied L&G has done  nothing wrong,  either in the advice given in 2005  to 
remortgage, or in its refusal  to provide a breakdown of the fee paid by the lender to the 
broker and L&G.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04099223
Ref: DRN0409922