K820x#14complaint
Mrs E says Bank of Scotland  plc (BofS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Es credit  card account  when she applied for the card in a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint because:
 I think BofS made Mrs E aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it 
 although I can understand  why she can no longer  remember  this. The application 
Mrs E signed had the box requesting  PPI completed  with a printed x. Thats  the way 
BofS normally recorded a customers agreement to buy PPI when the form was printed 
following a discussion about  the card application and PPI. I cant  see any reason why 
Mrs E would be treated  any differently to other  customers, so I think  its most likely 
what happened.
 BofS recommended the PPI to Mrs E, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, including the fact that she 
lived with her parents.  
 Its possible the information BofS gave  Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But Mrs E chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. She was not affected  by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mrs E 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think she would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mrs Es other comments,  including that she thinks if shes  been 
refunded some commission she paid, because she wasnt told about it at the time, then it 
follows the PPI was mis-sold overall. Im afraid  I dont agree with that. Weve  looked at many  
of these complaints  and we know that BofS  policy in 1998  was to get a customer to agree  
they wanted the PPI. And thats what I think happened here. The bank has agreed  it made  
an error when it didnt tell Mrs E how much commission it was going  to receive, and its given 
her a refund of some of that commission. The refund is in line with what Id expect to see in 
these circumstances,  and its what Id expect BofS to do. So Im not going  to ask it to so 
more than it already  has.
my decision
Ref: DRN04454572For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs E to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  1 December 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0445457