K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 1990  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  say 
they applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy in branch. Due to the time that has passed, 
BoS dont know  how the mortgage  and policy were sold. Given what  Mr and Mrs T have 
said, Ive considered this complaint on the basis that it was a branch sale.
Although the policy was in both Mr and Mrs Ts names, it only provided cover for Mr T. It 
covered him for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. Its unclear  how much  it offered to pay at the time of the sale.  The earliest 
records are from April 1996  and these show that in 1996 it offered to repay £150 a month  
towards Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time of 
the sale, it cost £6 a month. 
At the time,  Mr T was employed in the construction industry. He has told us he was entitled 
to at least six months redundancy pay but hasnt told us about any sick pay entitlement. He 
has told us he didnt  have  any other  means  (such as savings or other insurance policies) to 
meet the repayments should he be unable to work.  Mr T has said he had a medical condition 
at the time of the sale. 
As Mrs T held the mortgage jointly, Ive also thought about her financial circumstances at the 
time of the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in September  2002.  
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ts representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN08694132The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs T and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN08694133The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking   
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs T sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
Ref: DRN08694134suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS no longer  has the documents from the time of the sale.  However,  this is understandable 
given that the sale took place over 30 years  ago. So I cant hold it against  it that it is unable  
to now show how PPI was presented at the time. In the absence of any stronger evidence 
from Mr and Mrs T about how the policy was sold (again understandable), I am unable to 
conclude that it is more likely that the policy wasnt presented as optional.  And I havent  seen 
any evidence which would  lead me to conclude  that Mr and Mrs T were pressured into taking 
PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs T knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it provided  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs T disagree in their PPI 
questionnaire. Given  that Mr and Mrs T say the policy was sold during a branch meeting in 
connection with a mortgage and BoS have stated  that they will treat this an advised sale, I 
have considered this complaint on the basis that BoS provided advice. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs T. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr and Mrs Ts financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. And I can see from the records  BoS has 
provided that it may have tried to establish whether Mr and Mrs T had a need  for the policy  
by asking questions  about their wider  circumstances such as any health issues and 
employment  however,  I dont think it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable.  This is 
because the questions asked were not detailed enough to be able to assess  whether the 
policy would be suitable for Mr and Mrs T.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs T given their circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN08694135-Mr T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs T had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ts ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
T was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy 
benefits they say Mr T would  have been entitled to.
- Although Mr and Mrs T say they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs T. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ts employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr T has told 
us about a medical procedure that he underwent in around 1958. But this doesnt 
appear to be caught by the policy limitations  and exclusions.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr T be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs T be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr T was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs T 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs T Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs T all of the information  
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN08694136In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ts. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs T. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs T suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must  decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs T would have still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs T have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs T would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr and Mrs T say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs T had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
Ref: DRN08694137suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told them the exact  premium  at the point Mr 
and Mrs T applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs T would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with BoS at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs T would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ts 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions present at the start date or 
those that Mr T was treated for or consulted  a doctor  about  in the 12 months before 
the start date. 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr T be unable to 
work at his normal occupation or at any other occupation in any capacity.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
Ref: DRN08694138cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr T has told us about a medical  condition  he 
had some time before the policy  was taken out, I dont  think better information about the 
exclusion relating  to pre-existing medical  conditions  would  have  put him off agreeing  to it. I 
say this because  the condition was treated by way of a medical procedure in around 1958. 
This was over 30 years before the policy was taken out. Given the procedure  undertaken, 
the condition is unlikely to have returned  and I havent seen any evidence  to suggest 
otherwise. So it doesnt  look like he wouldve been  caught by the exclusion relating to pre-
existing medical conditions.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think Mr and Mrs T had some  good reasons to take the policy  
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
T might reasonably have  expected.  But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs T from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs T, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs T had known Mr T could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do 
his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job, it might  have played into their 
thinking about what they would do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for thought  
although given  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, on balance, I still think  they would have  been  
interested in taking out the cover.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs T that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr T is likely to have received full sick pay for and 
his redundancy  entitlement was also likely  to be significantly  less than 12 months  full pay.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs T would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr T be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Mr and Mrs T have  complained that Mr T reached 65 while the policy  was in place - and he 
wouldnt have been able to claim on it at that point. But Mr T was 40 when they took out the 
PPI, so I think its more likely  than not hed have  thought hed still get some  value out of 
having the PPI, as it would have covered him for almost the full period of the mortgage. And 
the policy would end when he turned 65 so he would stop paying for it at this time. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr T were made redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs T would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Ref: DRN08694139Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs T found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr and Mrs T, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1990  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs T and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
Ref: DRN086941310utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0869413