K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mrs H, represented  by her son Mr H, complained because Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited refused to pay a contents  insurance  claim.
background
Mrs H died in October  2017, and her son Mr H was an executor. On 2 May 2018, Mr H 
reported to the police that there had been a burglary at the house. 
Mr H told the police that someone  had gained entry to the property by forcing the bottom 
panel of the back door.  Hed said hed then replaced  it himself before the police came.
Mr H also explained to the police that he was staying at the address periodically while  he 
was packing up his late mothers house. The police report records that Mr H said the theft 
must have  taken place  between  14 March  and 2 May, because hed left the address seven 
weeks earlier, and had returned to find the back door forced open.  
On 5 May,  Mr H contacted Lloyds to put in a claim under his late mothers insurance  policy.  
He claimed for various items including silver,  jewellery, watches,  and other items.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to report  on the claim, and obtained a copy  of the police 
report. After receiving these, Lloyds  refused  to pay Mr Hs claim. It said this was because the 
property had been unoccupied for seven weeks. In its final response, Lloyds quoted the 
relevant part of Mrs Hs policy:
 Changes you must  tell us about
You must tell us...before  it happens  if your home is to become unoccupied for more  than 30 
days in a row...
When youre away
If youre going away for more than 30 days, say on holiday or for a hospital stay, and you or 
your family wont be living in your home, please call us. Well tell you what to do to ensure 
your home remains protected, including:
-Turning off the water, gas and electric
-Arranging for the property to be checked regularly.   
And the policy booklet confirmed that, for both buildings and contents cover, Lloyds wouldnt 
cover loss or damage  from theft when  the home was unoccupied for more than 30 days.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that Lloyds  had been  fair when it had 
refused his claim on the basis of the policy exclusion for an unoccupied property. The police 
report had indicated that Mr H had said he hadnt  been there  for around  seven weeks.  And 
the investigator also pointed out that Lloyds loss adjuster had reported that there  was no 
cooker in the property,  and that Mr H didnt have  a front door key for the property. Mrs H had 
had an equity release mortgage,  so the property was going to the mortgage  company after 
her death.  The policy document set out what would be considered essential for occupation, 
and this included  having cooking appliances as well as sanitary fittings  and beds. So the 
investigator thought  Lloyds  had been fair to refuse the claim.
Ref: DRN04902802Mr H didnt agree. He said Lloyds had initially been going to settle  the claim, until it had 
appointed a loss adjuster. He sent in photos  of four documents which were addressed to him 
or to his late mother at the property address. 
Mr H said he hadnt been away  for more than a month. He also said that he hadnt made a 
police statement, but a police officer had come  round and made  some  notes. Mr H said that 
if there was a discrepancy in the police  report,  it was due to a misunderstanding,  a mistake,  
or his distress at coming back and finding  hed been robbed.  He felt the investigators 
decision was harsh, and that hed been robbed again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the policy booklet  for the insurance on this property. Together with the 
policy schedule, this makes up the contract  for the insurance. 
-Theres a section  on page 7 headed  When youre away. Ive quoted  the wording in 
the last section, about being  away for more than 30 days. This clearly sets out that 
the insured person has to tell Lloyds if the property  is going to be unoccupied for 
more than 30 days. 
-Section 11 of the Contents section of the terms and conditions sets out what  is and 
isnt covered for any claim of theft. This says loss or damage isnt covered when the 
home is unoccupied.       
-In the definitions section on page 45, Unoccupied is defined as Not lived in by you 
or a member of your family  for more than 30 days in a row. Please note, a property 
will only be considered occupied if it is lived in by you or a member  of your family and 
contains essential items  for normal living purposes, for example cooking appliances, 
sanitary fittings and beds.
So the property  was only covered for theft if it hadnt  been  unoccupied for more than 30 
days. And Mr H would also have had to tell Lloyds in advance  if he was going to be away for 
more than 30 days, too. Theres no record that he did this.
I recognise that Mr H has recently said that there must have been a mistake  or 
misunderstanding about the police  report, which recorded that hed told the police hed been  
away for around seven  weeks.  But I think its more  likely that what Mr H told the police in 
May 2018 was likely to be accurate, rather than what he remembered in the second  half of 
2019. So I find that its more likely than not that Mr H had been  away  from the property for 
around seven weeks  before  he reported  the theft to the police. This means the property  had 
been unoccupied under the terms of his policy, so it wasnt insured. So Lloyds was entitled  
to refuse  the claim. 
Ive considered Mr Hs argument that Lloyds had initially been going to settle the claim, until 
it appointed a loss adjuster. Ive seen  no evidence that Lloyds promised to pay the claim and 
then went back on it. And its standard practice  for an insurer  to appoint a loss adjuster, 
especially when large sums are involved,  as in the claim which  Mr H made. Lloyds was 
entitled to appoint a loss adjuster and take into account what  the loss adjuster said,  when it 
decided whether or not to pay the claim.
Ref: DRN04902803Ive also seen the photos which Mr H sent in, showing the documents  which were addressed 
to him or to Mrs H at the property address.  These are dated between April and June  2018.  
But letters addressed to individuals at the property dont prove that the person was living 
there. They only prove that the sender had that name and address on their records.  The 
letters dont  prove that the property wasnt unoccupied for more  than 30 days.
Taking all this into account, I consider that Lloyds  acted  fairly and reasonably  when it 
declined the claim  for theft. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf  of 
the estate of the late Mrs H, to accept or reject  my decision before  24 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0490280