K820x#14Complaint
Mr L and Ms D say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr L and Ms D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992. Mr L and Ms D paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered the Mr L in case 
he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L and Ms D disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr L and Ms Ds case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr L and Ms D, I have not found that this policy was mis-
sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was 27 years  ago, and the accounts  involved  have long since  closed. So I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the documents  from the sale. Indeed,  under data 
protection rules  Halifax were required to dispose  of Mr L and Ms Ds data rather  than hold 
onto it for too long.  I also need to bear in mind  that buying insurance is not often memorable, 
and memories can and do fade over time. Ive thought carefully  about whats most likely to 
have happened  based on the limited information  I have.
There doesnt seem to be any debate that Mr L and Ms D agreed to PPI, but they explained 
they only did so as they were led to believe it would help them get their mortgage. It would 
have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr L and Ms D into thinking the 
PPI was compulsory  or a factor  in getting  approved. But I have no evidence which shows 
thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems with Halifaxs  sales 
process from the time.  And this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably  expect Halifax  to 
be able to produce evidence to defend itself now. So I dont think I have a fair basis  on which  
to conclude that Halifax misled Mr L and Ms D. I think  its more likely that it followed a 
relatively normal sales process, gave them a choice,  and that they chose  PPI at the time  
though I can certainly  understand if they no longer recall doing  so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L and Ms D, so it had to check  it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr L was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected  by any its 
main exclusions  or limitations.
Ref: DRN00358582Mr L did have some existing benefits through work. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
those, it covered him for longer, and it offered him significantly more comprehensive cover  
such as when his work  benefits reduced to just a fraction of his normal pay. Mr L and Ms D 
had only limited savings  and dont seem to have had any other protection.  Its worth bearing 
in mind that the mortgage was a significant,  long-term commitment,  and Mr L was the main 
earner. Ultimately, if Mr L and Ms D fell behind  on their mortgage payments they couldve 
lost their home. So it seems sensible to have insured Mr L. The PPI couldve been useful for 
Mr L and Ms D in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr L and Ms D about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr L wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr L and Ms D in case  
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim, and Ive not seen any indication it was unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mr L and Ms D could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think that better information  was likely to have put them  off taking out the 
cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr L and Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0035858