K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) failed to confirm  his 
claim was covered within a reasonable time frame.
background
Mr W was involved  in a collision whilst  skiing  that injured a third party. He received a letter 
from the third-partys solicitors noting their intent to claim  for damages,  so Mr W contacted  
RSA on 20 April 2018 to make a claim on his travel insurance policy for legal expenses 
cover. 
Mr W submitted  his claim form,  which was received by RSA on 25 April 2018. He got back in 
contact with them on 6 June 2018 to check on the progress of his claim as he hadnt  heard 
anything, at which point he was surprised  to learn  that it was still being  assessed by the 
insurer. Mr W was concerned  to hear this, as he thought it meant  that his claim might  still be 
rejected.
RSA explained  to Mr W that his claim had neither  been accepted nor rejected, but was being 
reviewed by their panel solicitors. Mr W says this caused him further  distress  that his claim 
was going to be rejected and that he would have to defend the claim personally. Mr W says 
he contacted RSA several more times  via email and telephone to find out if his claim  had 
been accepted, but no one was able to provide  him with any information.
Mr W eventually  received  confirmation on 20 June 2018 from RSAs  solicitor that his claim 
was covered, but complains that the delay in being told this was unacceptable.  As a result, 
Mr W withheld the £70 excess requested by RSA and would like this to be waived as a result 
of their poor handling  of his claim. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. He didnt think  that the seven week  
timeframe to confirm claim coverage  was unreasonable given that it had to be referred  to 
solicitors, and he didnt  think RSA had acted unreasonably  as they were not in a position  to 
confirm coverage during  this time. Mr W disagreed, but did not provide any further  evidence  
or arguments to be considered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I appreciate that the uncertainty of not knowing whether his claim had been accepted 
wouldve been distressing for Mr W. But an insurer is entitled  to fully test any claim submitted 
to ensure it ought  to be indemnified and, depending on the issues at stake, this can 
sometimes take longer  if advice needs  to be obtained from third-party professionals.
Mr Ws case concerned  the threat  of legal action, so RSA had to seek legal advice from their 
solicitors. And once the claim  had been referred  to RSAs solicitors,  the matter  of whether it 
was to be covered  or not was largely  out of RSAs hands until theyd  received  the necessary 
advice. 
Ref: DRN00402622In the circumstances  and taking into consideration that claims involving legal action can 
often take longer to assess given that professional  advice is required  I dont think seven 
weeks was an unreasonable amount of time for Mr W to wait to receive confirmation that his 
claim was covered. I appreciate that the uncertainty caused him distress  as he thought  his 
claim was going to be rejected. But I cant see that RSA said anything that suggested this 
was likely going to be the case. And I dont  think RSA acted  unreasonably  by withholding 
comment on claim coverage until they received confirmation from their solicitors, so I will not 
be asking them to refund  Mr Ws excess in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0040262