K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1995.
background
Miss L took out a credit card with NatWest in 1995. She was sold a PPI policy at the same time in 
connection with this credit.
The PPI cost around 75p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It would have paid 10% of 
the outstanding balance  each month  for up to 12 months if Miss L was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Ls complaint should be upheld.  Miss L didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked whether Miss L was eligible under the policy. Based on Miss Ls age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Miss L would have been eligible.
NatWest had to make  it clear to Miss L that PPI was optional  and needed  her consent before it 
could be applied to her account. Miss L says she wasnt  aware that the policy  was optional.
Ive seen a copy  of the completed application  form from the time of the sale. This shows that    
Miss L would  have been presented with two equally clear options to take or refuse  PPI. I can see 
that the option to take PPI has been ticked and Miss L signed this form. 
So while I appreciate what Miss L has told us, based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think its more  
likely that PPI was presented as optional and it was only applied to the account  because Miss L 
chose to take it out.
NatWest say they didnt  recommend PPI to Miss L. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  
otherwise. This means NatWest didnt  have to take steps to check the PPI was suitable  for Miss L. 
But NatWest  did have  to provide Miss L with clear  information so that she could  make  an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Miss Ls attention  
to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
Its possible Natwest didnt give Miss L all of the information as they should have. But this in itself 
doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider whether better information 
would have put Miss L off taking the PPI.
I dont think it would  have.  I say this because:
Ref: DRN06634352-Miss L doesnt appear to have been affected  by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
-Although Miss L has told us she would have been entitled to sick pay and had some 
savings, the PPI would have paid out in addition  to this and for a longer period  of time then 
her sick pay.
-I havent seen  evidence which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable for Miss L.
-Miss L could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer wanted  or needed it.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think NatWest mis-sold Miss L this PPI 
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 10 June 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0663435