K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  him a Plus packaged bank 
account in 2009. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ns complaint and didnt think  HSBC had mis-sold the 
Plus account. Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ns complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  Mr Ns complaint. Id 
like to explain the reasons for my decision in more  detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr N was given a clear choice in taking this account.  At this 
point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened. 
When the parties to a complaint disagree about  what happened (such as here)  and theres a 
lack of evidence  from the time, I have to think about what  I have  been  provided with, what I 
do know and the wider circumstances at the time. In other  words,  what  l have to do, in this 
case, is decide what I think is more likely than not to have  happened  having weighed up 
what both Mr N and HSBC have  been  able to provide me with.  
  
Mr N upgraded to the fee paying  Plus account  from a free one. So I think  Mr N wouldve 
known HSBC did free accounts prior to him upgrading. Ive seen what  Mr N has said about 
being told that free banking was ending and thats why he felt he had no choice but to 
upgrade. While a recording of the call is no longer available  given the sale took place a 
decade ago I dont  find this a surprise  Mr N did manage to have a free account in 2011.  
And I think Mr N would more likely  than not have raised  concerns  at this time, or at the very 
least much  sooner than he did, if hed been misled in the way he suggests  he was. As Mr N 
didnt do this, his actions, lead me to think that its more likely than not that he agreed to 
upgrade to the Plus account  after he was provided with a fair choice on doing  so. 
I think its likely Mr N wouldve been  told about  most, if not all, of the benefits on the account  
in order to make it appear as attractive as possible.  After all HSBC was trying to persuade 
him to take a fee paying account when he most likely knew he didnt have  to. And the best 
way to do this wouldve  been by telling  him about  what hed get for the monthly  fee. 
When Mr N was sold the Plus account  the main benefits it included were preferential  
borrowing rates, travel  insurance and breakdown cover. Mr N had an overdraft which he 
used. So I think the preferential borrowing rates are likely to have  been  of use to him. 
Mr N also used the breakdown service  on more than one occasion  which  suggests that he 
had a need for this cover  and was relying  on it. Mr N also travelled  albeit perhaps  not that 
Ref: DRN07738562often. So I think he couldve found  the travel insurance useful too. Bearing all of this in mind,  
it appears to me that the Plus account was a reasonable  fit for Mr Ns circumstances and as 
a result any recommendation of it wasnt unfair   especially as this was the only way for      
Mr N to have these  benefits with HSBC. 
Overall I think  that Mr N did use some of the benefits included on the Plus account and he 
was eligible for and couldve benefitted  from some  of the others  too. Given all of this and 
while I acknowledge Mr N might not have been  told absolutely everything he needed to 
know, I think he was told enough to know what he was agreeing to. 
Mr N may now believe  he didnt benefit as much  hed initially  hoped  and expected to. And 
given what he mayve  since read and heard about  packaged accounts,  I can understand why 
he may believe his account  was mis-sold. But I think he chose to take the account while 
having a decent understanding of what it included.  So I want to reassure Mr N that having  
looked at everything  provided and thought about what  hes said,  I dont think that HSBC   
mis-sold the Plus account to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0773856