K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that the car provided  to her by FCE Bank  Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 12 March  2019 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained that I had come  to a different view to the 
adjudicator. In particular  that as the problems hadnt become clear until some eighteen 
months after Mrs E acquired  the car, I didnt feel it probable theyd been present at the point 
of sale. On that basis I didnt agree the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality.
Mrs E responded to my provisional decision saying in summary:
The fact the issues werent evident immediately doesnt mean the car was of 
satisfactory quality. The faults had originated from within the mechanical, electronic 
and computerised  systems which hadnt  been  altered after purchase so the faults 
must have been present at the point of sale.
It wasnt clear  what evidence  was required to show the faults had been  present at the 
point of sale or when  the issues needed to have become known to be relevant.
A recent RAC inspection in February  2019 had identified a number of problems that 
needed further investigation  including the alignment  of the drivers door, error codes 
within the computer  system and a full steering check. This was further evidence that 
the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality.
The car had been  marketed on its safety features but it was these features that had 
failed, in particular  the seatbelts and child locks.
The car had been  acquired with a 3 year hire purchase agreement  so it was 
reasonable to expect  it would be of satisfactory  quality  throughout the whole of this 
time.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I continue  to think  that the 
conclusions reached  in my provisional decision are correct.
I sympathise with Mrs E and the problems shes had. Its important to note however that this 
complaint is against  FCE and not the manufacturer or the dealership. Under  the legislation 
FCEs responsibilities are limited to ensuring the car provided to Mrs E was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And although  the hire purchase agreement was for three years,  
the test is whether the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply
Ref: DRN08965102In general that means I can take into account faults that were  present or developing at the 
point of sale but not faults that develop later on. It can be difficult  to know whether a fault 
was developing  at the point of sale but as a general rule this will cover  faults  that occur  
within the first six months after delivery. After that its for the consumer to show the faults  
were present  when  they acquired  the car and inevitably the longer the time between the sale 
and the fault, the more difficult it may be to show this is the case.  In deciding whether a fault 
was present or developing  at the point of sale, Ive taken into account all the available 
information and in particular, the independent inspection report. Where theres no precise  
information or the information available is disputed, then Ive made  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
Ive seen Mrs E says the faults involve the cars original  systems which  suggest  they must 
have been present when  the car was built, even if they didnt  appear  until later. But its fair to 
say that as cars get older,  parts wear out so that faults will appear  and this doesnt mean 
they were present at the point of sale. The question is one of reasonableness.
The history  of the faults in this case were set out in more detail in my provisional decision  but 
in particular I felt it was significant  that the problems didnt  begin until more  than twelve  
months after purchase. And by this time Mrs E had covered more than 20,000 miles. Ive 
also taken into account the independent  report that concluded that given when the problems 
began, it wasnt  likely  the faults had been present at the point of sale.  On what  Ive seen I 
agree with that view. I think it unlikely that the problems, which as Mrs E says were  largely  
mechanical, would have remained dormant for so long if theyd already been  present and for 
that reason,  I think it more  probable  they developed later. 
I dont underestimate  the impact  of these problems on Mrs E and her family.  Clearly its been 
upsetting and inconvenient.  However  for the reasons  given, I cant  agree the car wasnt of 
satisfactory condition at the point of sale and, on that basis,  I wont be asking FCE to take 
this car back  or to do anything more to resolve this complaint.  I realise this isnt the decision 
Mrs E was hoping for but Mrs E doesnt  have to accept my decision and she remains  free to 
pursue the matter by any other  mean that may be available.
Finally I note Mrs E feels the car hasnt lived up to its marketing with regard to its safety and 
quality. I havent  seen any specific evidence of a misrepresentation that induced Mrs E to 
enter into the agreement  with FCE but if Mrs E remains  unhappy then Id advise her to raise  
this with the manufacturer or dealership.
Ref: DRN08965103my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Ref: DRN08965104complaint
Mrs E complains that the car provided to her by FCE Bank Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In September 2016 Mrs E acquired a brand  new car with the benefit of a hire purchase with FCE 
Bank Plc. In September 2017 the car went back for in a manufacturer recall to the airbag.  In 
November 2017 Mrs E noted  a fault with the front passenger  seat belt alarm and over the next few 
months a number of other problems  occurred  including:
blocked windscreen  washers;
the oil warning light coming on from time to time;
a fault with the rear seat belt alarm;
the cars dual horn broke during use;
the front driver door dropped on its hinge;
the child lock on the rear doors malfunctioned.
Mrs E says she wouldnt  expect a new car to have had so many problems unless  there was a 
fundamental fault in its build. Shes also unhappy at the time its taken  to try to carry  out the repairs. 
She says in total its been in the garage for weeks.  In particular, after the car developed a fault with 
the child lock alarm in April 2018, the dealership wasnt  able to source  the replacement part for 
months and although the garage provided  her with a courtesy car during this time, it wasnt the same 
make and model so it wasnt as convenient. And it couldnt be used abroad, which restricted  their 
holiday plans.
Mrs E doesnt  feel the car was of satisfactory quality  when  she acquired it in 2016  and shed  now like 
to reject it or to have it replaced.
FCE said the problems hadnt occurred  until eighteen months  after the agreement was set up, and 
there was nothing to show theyd been present at the point of sale,  so it didnt agree the car hadnt 
been of satisfactory quality.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the car had first gone in for a recall some twelve 
months after purchase and in the nine months after that it had had a number  of problems and had 
spent more  than 15 weeks in the garage. The last problem involved the child lock alarm with the result 
the garage hadnt been  able to guarantee  it was safe to use for Mrs Es children until it was repaired.  
But it had then proved  difficult to source the replacement  part and so Mrs E had been without her car 
for months.
Some of the problems  were  more minor than others but overall he felt the car had had more problems 
that would reasonably be expected  of a new vehicle. He didnt think it was usual for parts  such  as the 
horn, the seatbelt and child locks to fail within eighteen months, or for the door to have come out 
alignment within the first two years of use. 
Hed seen the FCE didnt agree it was probable  the problems had been present at the point of sale or 
that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality, but he didnt agree. And he said many of the problems  
involved faults  with the safety  features  of the vehicle,  which would  have added  to Mrs Es concerns. 
He recommended Mrs E be allowed to reject the car. In addition, he recommended  FCE should also:-
arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mrs E, 
pay back  her £10,000  deposit together with interest at 8%
pay £150  for the inconvenience caused.  
Ref: DRN08965105As Mrs E had had use of the car during  the contract period,  he didnt recommend a general refund of 
the payments but said FCE should refund two monthly payments  to take into account  the time the car 
had been in the garage.
FCE disagreed  and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. It accepted the door 
hinges and locks  had failed within the first eighteen months, and that thered been other problems, but 
said these hadnt happened  until the car was more than eighteen months old and there was nothing to 
show theyd been there at the point of sale.
Mrs E accepted the recommendation. She said the garage had returned the car saying the faults had 
been fixed, but she didnt  agree. The door hinge on the drivers side was still faulty, and she was 
having to make her own arrangements to have this fixed. In addition the sun roof was having 
problems intermittently. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where theres no clear  information  on any particular point then Ive 
gone on to consider whats  more likely than not to have  happened.
FCE provided Mrs E with the car under a hire purchase agreement. Under the relevant  regulations, 
FCE is responsible  for ensuring  that the car supplied  was of satisfactory quality. That is what  a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory, taking into account  all the circumstances, which  
in the case of a car includes  its age and mileage. 
If I find the car wasnt satisfactory  then I can ask FCE to take steps to put matters right. But theres  a 
limit to FCEs responsibility, and that is that the faults need to have been present  or developing at the 
point of sale.  In order to uphold this complaint,  therefore,  I need to be satisfied that the problems 
experienced by Mrs E were  caused by an inherent defect that was present when she acquired the car 
in 2016.
In this case there was a manufacturers recall  in September 2017 but it doesnt seem there was any 
specific problem with the car before then. In January 2018  however Mrs E reported a new fault with 
the rear seat belt alarm and in the next few months after that she had a number of other problems, in 
particular the seat belt alarms, the car horn, the rear door child lock and the drivers door hinge.
Its clear Mrs E feels very strongly that the number and range of problems shes had show the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.  And as this was a new car I think Mrs E was entitled to expect  it to be 
fault-free for a reasonable period of time. So I can understand why she feels  so disappointed  with 
whats happened.
But the problems with this car didnt occur  until it was more than twelve months old. And for the 
majority of the faults it was several months after that. So the question I have to consider  is whether its 
probable that these problems were there at the point of sale.
Its clear Mrs E and FCE have a very different  view on this so I requested an independent report. This 
noted that Mrs E still had issues with the sun roof not closing at times, the low oil warning  light 
appearing intermittently and the misalignment of the O/S/F. The report  concluded as follows:
From examination of the vehicle, the engineer was able to confirm  that the 0/S/F door is misaligned 
within its aperture with the top corner adjacent to the B pillar  fouling the rear door on opening and 
closing This will require  investigation and adjustment / realignment The engineer does not recognise 
this as a manufacturing defect
No defects  could be identified with the sunroof  operation or with the low oil level message  being  
displayed at the time of test. Further investigation will be required in respect of the drifting to the left 
whilst driving A full steering  geometry check is recommended.
Ref: DRN08965106An on-board analysis of the vehicles ECUs  (Electronic  Control Units)  revealed a number of recorded  
fault codes stored in the computerised memory  of the vehicle. These will require further investigation 
to ascertain their cause Please see separate report for details.
Given the nature  of the concerns and that the client has not reported any issue until six months after 
purchase, the engineer  can only conclude the concerns have developed post-purchase of the car.
This is an independent report and for that reason  I have  given its conclusions considerable weight. 
Ive also taken  into account that the mechanical problems with the horn, the door hinge and the 
washers are very different  to the electrical problems with the seat belt alarms or the door child lock, so 
that doesnt suggest theres  an underlying problem  linking these. And while Id agree  its unusual  for 
the door hinge  to come out of alignment, it does not appear this is a manufacturing  defect but simply  a 
fault that developed later on in the cars use.
I can see thereve  been a number of issues within a short space of time and in the circumstances, its 
not surprising Mrs E feels the car must  have some underlying problem.  Its clear the problems  have 
had a considerable  impact  on Mrs E which  was made  worse by the time it took to complete  the 
repairs. However on the information available  I think it improbable these issues were present  at the 
point of sale.  If they had been then Id expect them to have become  apparent sooner than they did in 
this case.  And the fact that Mrs E drove more than 20,000 miles  in the car in the first twelve months 
without incident doesnt suggest this car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when she acquired it. 
In the circumstances I cant agree the car supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality  and for that reason, I 
wont be upholding  Mrs Es complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Es complaint  and I wont be asking FCE Bank Plc 
to do anything  more.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0896510