K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited, trading as Very, informed him 
his account was in arrears  despite him continuing to make his payments.  
background
Mr B says he received  an email in December 2018 advising him that hed missed his 
minimum payment so his account was in arrears.  This was despite the fact that Mr B had 
made a payment in excess of the minimum amount by the given deadline. He made another 
payment following this email but his account was still showing as being in arrears and this 
was reported to his credit file. 
Mr B made a complaint to Very.  He wanted  his arrears cleared, compensation and any 
adverse markers  removed  from his credit file. He says he had paid in excess  of the minimum 
payment so Very is wrong to say he has missed  any payments. Mr B says Very has made a 
mistake and he feels he has been  unnecessarily chased with arrears reminders.
Very responded  to Mr Bs complaint explaining that the minimum payment had been in 
relation to his direct  purchases on his flexible  account. But Mr B, who paid online, had 
allocated his payments  to his Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) items instead. So the minimum 
payment for his direct  purchases had remained outstanding. Very says that their website is 
clear that if a payment is allocated to BNPL items then the minimum payment on direct 
purchases is still due. So it didnt think itd done  anything wrong and the credit  reporting was 
accurate. But it agreed to remove  that reporting  as a gesture  of good will.
 
Very confirmed that Mr Bs account was now up-to-date. And although it didnt think anything  
had gone wrong  in relation to the minimum payment,  it accepted that Mr B had received poor 
customer service.  In particular, Mr B was cut off during a call and the agent didnt return to 
the line. And there was also another instance  when  an agent didnt make it clear what  an 
outstanding payment was for. So it offered Mr B £50 compensation for this.  
The investigator didnt  think that Very had to do anything else. Mr B disagreed  so his 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and Ill 
explain why.
I can see from Mr Bs history of flexible account  statements that at the time of the minimum 
payment demand  he had both direct purchases and BNPL items (statement number  39). His 
next statement  clearly  showed that the payments hed made the previous month had been 
allocated to his BNPL items (statement  40). So I accept that hed allocated  his payments to 
his BNPL items as opposed to the minimum amount due on his direct purchases.  
I can also see that Mr B made  two payments and the total was significantly more than the 
minimum payment due. This is in-line with him saying that he believed hed made his 
minimum payment and, to be on the safe side following  the arrears reminder, made a 
second payment  too. 
Ref: DRN06891582Mr Bs statements  show  that his spending  pattern was to make his purchases using the 
BNPL option and repay the balances in full before the interest free period ended. And he has 
never missed a payment in the past.  So I think that he was clearly accustomed  to repaying 
BNPL items as opposed to minimum payments  due on direct purchases.
Based on all of this, I dont think that Mr Bs actions and his account history are consistent  
with someone who deliberately missed a minimum payment.  So I accept that hed intended  
to make the minimum payment and was genuine  in his belief that hed actually done this. But 
the matter doesnt  end there. I also need  to consider whether, despite his honest belief he 
had paid, Mr B should have realised his minimum payment was still outstanding.
Very has referred to its website outlining Ways to Pay. But I think  its more  helpful to focus 
on how clear the payment  options  were in Mr Bs own account.  Ive seen screen shots  of 
what a customers online account  and payment journey looks  like for both a mobile 
application and website log in. Whilst I have not seen details of Mr Bs customer journey, I 
have no reason to doubt it would have looked the same.
I can see that both log in versions give the option to make a payment and pay buy now pay 
later. The make a payment screen  shows the minimum  payment due on the account. The 
pay buy now pay later screen doesnt  refer to a minimum payment.  Instead it outlines the 
remaining interest free period on each BNPL item and the option to either  repay an item in 
full or in part. This screen also has the following warning at the very top:
Buy Now Pay Later payments do not count towards  your minimum monthly account 
payment. To avoid  incurring any charges, please ensure you also make your minimum 
payment.
So I think that both log in versions  clearly  differentiate between  the minimum payment due 
on the overall account, which would include direct purchases, and the BNPL items. And the 
warning about  the minimum payment still being due regardless of payments  towards  the 
BNPL items is both clearly displayed and clearly worded. 
For all of these reasons, I think its reasonable that Mr B should  have realised  that his 
minimum payment was still outstanding and that hed allocated  his repayments to the wrong 
items. No matter how genuine this mistake was it wouldnt  be fair for me to say that Very has 
done anything  wrong. 
Because the payment  was not met Very had a duty to notify Mr B of this. And it also had an 
obligation to report  the missed payment  accurately to Mr Bs credit file. So I dont think  
anything has gone wrong here either.  That being said, Im glad to see that Very has agreed 
to remove this adverse  reporting on this occasion given that this was a genuine mistaken 
allocation of repayments. 
Finally, Ive thought  about whether the £50 compensation for the poor customer service  is 
fair and reasonable. I think that the majority of Mr Bs distress  and inconvenience was as a 
result of the incorrect payment allocations, which Very isnt responsible  for. So I think  that 
£50 for the poor customer service is proportionate  to the additional,  but in comparison more 
minimal, impact this would  have  had on Mr B. 
For all of these reasons I dont think Very has to do anything differently. It has treated Mr B 
fairly in agreeing to remove the adverse credit  reporting, when it didnt have to. And in 
recognising the poor customer service he received.
Ref: DRN06891583my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, it is my final decision that the offer made by 
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited is fair and reasonable. I understand that 
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited has already  paid the £50 to Mr B, but if that isnt the 
case then it should  now do that. It should  also remove  the missed  payment from Mr Bs 
credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0689158