K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of a club, of which she is the treasurer, that it is being  charged for 
paying in money  to a local post office, by the Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS). Ill refer to 
the club as H.
background
H has had an account with RBS for a number of years. The business account it has charges 
for paying money in and taking money out over the counter either in branch, the Post Office  
or in deposit  machines. The charge is £0.70 for every £100.  
The local branch of RBS has recently closed. And so now H pays money into the local Post 
Office. But its unhappy that it is still being  charged. RBS considered the complaint but didnt 
uphold it. So Mrs S referred the matter to us. 
Our investigator concluded the charge was provided  for in the terms and conditions to the 
account  it didnt matter where the money was paid in, and would  have been  charged even 
had it of been in a bank  branch.
Mrs S has asked  for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary she says:
RBS is charging for a service it doesnt  provide.  Its the Post Office that handles  the 
money the paid in. 
The only action RBS is undertaking is the processing of the credit.
As there  are no local branches it doesnt  see why it should be charged  for paying into 
the Post Office.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I explain 
why below.
When H opened a business account with RBS it agreed to the terms and conditions  of the 
account. Those terms and conditions  set out that a cash handling fee of £0.70 per £100  is 
charged for cash paid in to or out of the account by bank branch counter, Post Office counter 
or cash and deposit  machines. The charges made  by RBS have been made in line with 
those terms and conditions. 
Although H pays money in over the Post Office  branch that doesnt mean RBS doesnt  
provide any service in relation to the deposit. The charge  is made for the ability to make 
cash payments in to or out of the account   a service it provides. Such  charges  are standard  
and common in business bank accounts. And although it might be the Post Office that 
handles the cash  payments  initially,  there will be an administrative process to credit funds 
the correct account.  
I understand Mrs S is unhappy about the charges but they have been applied  in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account H agreed to. I therefore  dont  uphold  the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN09000182my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S, on behalf  of 
H, to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0900018