K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC wont refund him transactions  made on his account 
that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. 
In the early hours  of 25 August 2018  there were a number  of transactions made on Mr Os 
account, these  totalled around  £7,000. At around  1030 hours Mr O contacted Lloyds to 
report his debit card lost or stolen. 
Lloyds told him about the recent  transactions,  many of which he disputed. They also said 
around £16,000 had been transferred via online banking from his savings accounts  to his 
current account, prior to the disputed transactions being made. Mr O says he didnt make  
these transfers. Lloyds investigated,  but ultimately  declined to return the funds. They  didnt 
think the evidence  and Mr Os account  of what had happened supported him being  a victim 
of fraud. Being  unhappy with this, Mr O complained. Lloyds maintained  their position and the 
matter was referred to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was more  
likely than not that Mr O had authorised the transactions in question. Mr O doesnt  accept 
this and has asked  for an ombudsman  to review his complaint. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr O liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence  suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Os genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr O consented  to the transactions 
being made. 
Ive reviewed the reasons our investigator  gave for reaching his conclusion  and I agree with 
what he said. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude  that 
Mr O authorised the transactions. I dont intend  to repeat all the reasons our investigator 
gave, but overall,  the evidence I find most persuasive is:
The disputed transactions were made  using Mr Os genuine card and PIN, but theres 
no convincing explanation for how a third party could have known Mr Os PIN. 
At 0555 hours  there  was a balance enquiry conducted at an ATM using  Mr Os card, 
but no cash was withdrawn.  There was a credit balance at this point and I think  its 
unlikely a fraudster  would have seen this and not made or attempted a cash  
withdrawal. 
Ref: DRN00483702Prior to the transfers taking place between  Mr Os accounts, his online  banking 
password was reset. This involved an automated call to Mr O as part of the 
verification process. Although Mr O says his sim card had been stolen, Lloyds 
systems can detect a change of device or a sim swap. No device change or sim 
swap was detected and Mr Os registered  device  was used  to enable verification. 
The first attempt at a disputed transaction was for £2,500 and was stopped by 
Lloyds systems. A text message was sent to Mr O and a positive reply was received 
to indicate that it was a genuine transaction. 
When Mr O initially  called Lloyds, he told them both his debit card and phone  had 
been stolen. In later calls he said only his sim had been stolen and that he had mis-
phrased when  he said the phone was stolen. Ive listened to the calls and I dont 
think the discrepancy is likely to be as a result of different phrasing. There is a 
significant difference between a whole phone being taken and just a sim card.
During a call with Lloyds, Mr O said he was unable to log into his online banking that 
morning. But their systems recorded a successful log in, on Mr Os registered  device, 
around 20 minutes before his call to report his debit card lost. 
There are several discrepancies between Mr Os account of events and what has been 
recorded by Lloyds systems. These  lead me to conclude that Mr Os testimony  isnt reliable 
evidence. I find the technical data recorded at the time more  persuasive. 
Ive considered what Mr O has said about  two food delivery orders  that he made around the 
same time as the disputed transactions. Hes provided evidence of these as well as some  
location data from his phone to support that he wasnt in the vicinity of the disputed  
transactions at the relevant time.  I accept  it would make no sense for Mr O to order  food 
deliveries to his home address if he wasnt there to receive them. But placing the orders 
isnt, in itself, proof of his location at the time. And even if I were to unquestioningly accept 
the location data from his phone as conclusive proof  of his location, this doesnt mean he 
couldnt have  still authorised another  person  to make the transactions he now disputes.
I appreciate Mr O feels Lloyds should have stopped the transactions as they were unusual 
spending in relation to his account. But Lloyds  systems did stop the first large  transaction,  
and the subsequent ones  only went through once a text had been received confirming the 
transactions to be genuine, which as above  came  from Mr Os device. So I dont think Lloyds 
ought to have done more  to try to stop the transactions. 
On balance, looking at everything as a whole, I think its more likely than not that Mr O made 
or otherwise authorised the transactions he disputes. It follows that I think  it is fair for Lloyds 
to hold him liable  for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0048370