K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Lending Stream provided to Mr S between 
September 2012 and December 2012. Mr Ss lending history is as follows:
Loan 1: £115 taken  out 7 September  2012  and to repaid in five monthly  instalments with the 
highest being £63.25.  Mr S repaid this loan late in June 2014.
Loan 2: £390 taken  out 21 November 2012 and to be repaid in six monthly instalments with 
the highest being £195. Mr S repaid this loan late in June 2014.
Loan 3: £105 taken  out 12 December 2012 and to be repaid in five monthly  instalments  with 
the highest being £57.75. Mr S repaid  this loan late in June 2014.
Lending Stream said it had upheld Mr Ss complaint about loan three and offered redress for 
it. But Mr S was unhappy with this. Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and 
thought loan three shouldnt have been given.  Lending Stream  didnt reply and the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN08126582There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S told Lending Stream  that he earned £1,200  a month. For loans one and two, he said 
his monthly expenditure was between £300 and £400. Lending Stream said it carried  out a 
credit check.  But I cant see what this found. 
Lending Stream could  only make  its decision based  on the information it had available  at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr S, I dont think  it had 
reached the stage  where there  was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mr S. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Lending  Stream needed to take further  steps to verify 
the information provided. 
I think the disposable income Mr S declared was sufficient to sustainably  repay his loans. So 
I cant say that Lending  Stream was wrong to provide  loans one and two. 
But I dont think the checks Lending Stream made for loan three were proportionate. Mr S 
had then declared his monthly outgoings as £1,200,  the same as his income.  So I think  this 
should have prompted Lending Stream  to make further checks of Mr Ss finances to ensure  
he could afford the loan repayments without undue hardship. As our adjudicator explained,  a 
proportionate check for loan three  would most likely have  shown  that Mr S wouldnt have any 
disposable income to repay his loan. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan three and Lending Stream  should put things right.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan three from Mr Ss credit  file;
Ref: DRN08126583 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) should pay Mr S compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0812658