K820x#14Complaint
Mr Vs complaint is that Black Horse Limited declined his application for finance.
Background
Mr V had a car under a finance agreement that needed major repairs. Because of 
this he applied to Black Horse for finance but it declined his application.
Mr V said that his credit score  hadnt  changed since  his original application and he 
had maintained the payments under his existing  agreement. He said this should have 
been taken into account. He said that he then had to take out a new finance 
agreement with another company  to acquire  a car. He challenged why Black Horse  
rejected his application when another company accepted it.
Black  Horse said that when Mr V applied for the original finance agreement his credit 
scoring was sufficient for his application  to be accepted. In April 2019,  when  he 
applied for finance it said his credit  score was much lower and so his application 
wasnt accepted.  
Mr V didnt  agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr V doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for the following reasons:
Before agreeing to provide finance, Black Horse is required to carry out checks to 
ensure that the lending is affordable. Different  lenders will look at different 
information when  carrying out their checks and lenders will have their own internal 
lending policies that they are required to follow. In this case Black  Horse carried out 
credit checks and Mr Vs score wasnt sufficient for his application to be approved. 
This is a commercial decision which Black Horse  is allowed to make.  
From  the information provided, Black Horse  assessed Mr Vs application against its 
standard lending requirements and so I cannot  say he was treated unfairly.
Mr V said that his credit score  hadnt  changed from when his initial application was 
approved to when  the April 2019 application was declined.  Black Horse has said that 
his credit score had decreased. It is reasonable that Black  Horse relies on the 
information it receives from the credit reference  agencies. If Mr V is concerned about 
his credit score he should check this with the credit reference agencies  to ensure the 
information held is accurate.  
Mr V has explained that he is struggling  to maintain the payments on his existing 
finance agreement. I can see that the option  of voluntary termination has been noted. 
In this situation I would expect Black  Horse to explain all the options available  to Mr V 
should he wish to exit his agreement. Given the circumstances of this case and Black 
Horses knowledge  of Mr Vs financial difficulties I would expect it to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in regard to any outstanding balance.
Ref: DRN04227472While I have sympathy for the situation Mr V is in, I do not find that Black Horse has treated 
him unfairly  by not accepting his finance application. For the reasons set out above, I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Black  Horse Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0422747