K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the sale and administration of his Teachers Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (TAVC) plan by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
background
Prudential sold Mr G a TAVC plan in 2000.  Mr G made contributions to the plan until 2011, 
when the plan was paid up and the proceeds were used to buy an annuity.
Mr G made  a complaint  to the Pensions Ombudsman in 2012 about being  mis-sold his 
TAVC as it wasnt suitable for him. The pensions ombudsman considered the paperwork 
available from the time the TAVC  was sold but didnt uphold his complaint. Since  then, Mr G 
raised a number of other concerns to Prudential that he believes the pensions ombudsman  
did not consider.
Mr G believes  Prudential acted fraudulently in its handling of his TAVC  application,  the 
administration of his TAVC and subsequent  communication. His arguments focus on the 
following:
a missing other benefits form and failure to tell the Teachers Pension Scheme 
(TPS) about his TAVC, which meant  his TAVC  wasnt amalgamated with his 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC)  plan;
Prudential couldnt prove it sent him annual  statements;  
the delay in starting contributions to his TAVC;
cheques for overpayments were not sent to him, bonuses applied incorrectly and 
charges applied to his TAVC;  and
Prudentials failure to send him key information
Prudential responded, explaining  why it didnt uphold Mr Gs complaints.  Unhappy with 
Prudentials response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service.  One of our investigators 
reviewed Mr Gs complaint, but didnt  uphold it. She explained that we could not consider 
issues the pensions  ombudsman had already looked at.
Our investigator didnt  conclude there  was a financial loss caused as a result of Mr G not 
completing the other benefits form or a failure to inform the TPS about his TAVC.  She 
explained it would not be for Prudential to arrange for Mr Gs TAVC to be amalgamated with 
his FSAVC.
Our investigator explained why Prudential couldnt  prove Mr G was sent annual statements. 
Our investigator noted the letters sent to Mr G about the overpayments,  and explained she 
wouldnt expect Prudential to provide  evidence  to show the cheques werent cashed. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaints about  charges and bonuses  applied to Mr Gs 
TAVC and supplied him with Prudentials brochure, which explained its agreement about  
charges and bonuses. 
Ref: DRN08381532Our investigator looked at Mr Gs concerns about his communication with Prudential.  She 
didnt conclude that Prudential had acted  fraudulently. Mr G was directed to the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) if he had concerns that Prudential withheld his 
personal information.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators opinion, reiterating his previous complaints about  
Prudential. So this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has gone to great lengths  to detail the background to his complaint  and each individual  
failing on Prudentials part, which he believes paint a picture  of fraudulent  activity.  I have 
considered all of Mr Gs submissions. But because of the informal  nature of our service, Ive 
focused on what I consider to be the crux of his complaints. And where  the pensions  
ombudsman has already considered events and similar arguments to those Mr G has raised 
as part of this complaint,  Ive not reviewed  these again.
a missing other benefits form
Mr Gs TAVC application says it was a requirement to complete an other benefits  form  if 
the applicant had an FSAVC. It said a failure  to provide the form will result  in the application 
being rejected.
Mr G says he didnt provide an other benefits form,  which  shows  Prudential acted 
fraudulently in his TAVC application.  He goes on to say that because the form wasnt  
provided, the TPS wasnt notified of his TAVC  and it wasnt amalgamated with his FSAVC.
 
Prudential say the form wasnt essential  to set up the TAVC, and it was aware  of Mr Gs 
FSAVC. Prudential also say its standard process is to notify TPS of a members TAVC plan. 
Its possible Mr G didnt complete the other benefits  form.  But Prudential would have known 
the TPS would need to be notified of an additional plan. And in the absence of any evidence 
Prudential didnt notify the TPS, I think its likely Prudential followed the established practice  
of notifying the TPS. Ive not been made aware  that Prudential should  have notified the TPS 
of Mr Gs FSAVC,  as that was likely to be the responsibility of the FSAVC provider when it 
was taken out. 
Whilst Mr G says he lost out on an opportunity to amalgamate his TAVC  with his FSAVC,  
Prudential couldnt  have advised him to do this or arranged this for him as it could only 
advise on products provided  by Prudential. Mr G was aware he had a TAVC as well as an 
FSAVC, held with another provider, so the Prudential couldnt  have provided advice on this. 
However, theres no evidence to suggest Mr G sought advice about his FSAVC  and it wasnt  
Prudentials role to give advice that wasnt requested.  
Ref: DRN08381533Ive not seen evidence that any failure  to tell the TPS about Mr Gs TAVC caused a loss 
either. It doesnt appear he was contributing more than the maximum allowed to his 
pensions, TAVC and FSAVC. I note Prudentials letter of 27 June  2016  referred  to a letter  
from the Teachers  Pension Scheme  which expressly states  that there are no implications 
for Teachers  Pensions (TP) not having been informed of your AVC. So even if I were  to 
conclude Prudential made an error, it doesnt  appear that theres any loss I could ask 
Prudential to compensate Mr G for.
Mr G has made reference to other paperwork he thinks was missing from the sale,  including 
a missing ready reckoner. Amongst other perceived failures,  he says Prudential  failed to 
make him aware of the option to buy past added years. Mr G says these paint a picture of 
systemic failures and fraud in the sale of his TAVC. 
The sales  process  was considered in some detail by the pensions  ombudsman in 
December 2012.  The pensions ombudsman noted there were  disputes about the paperwork 
completed at the time of the application.  The ombudsman said:
You also say that you were sold the product  by default having received what you 
consider to be false information and inflated promises that did not exist in reality.
The pensions ombudsman has already considered Mr Gs concerns about  the suitability of 
the TAVC  against  the background of his existing concerns about the paperwork and 
application process. It would not be appropriate  for me to review the sales process  further. 
annual statements 
Mr G says he didnt receive annual statements. As he didnt receive the statements, he didnt 
have the opportunity to see how his AVC performed and stop his contributions.
The decision  reached by the pensions ombudsman in December 2012 explained the 
following to Mr G:
I appreciate  that you are disappointed with the eventual value of your AVC fund and 
the annuity it has purchased for you. However,  I am satisfied that any shortfall 
against your expectations is as the result of investment performance and not 
maladministration. I also note that you contributed  to the TAVC for more  than ten 
years, during which time you would have  received  annual statements providing you 
with an indication of the performance  of your fund.  If you were dissatisfied with the 
investment you had the option to switch  at any time.
The Pensions Ombudsman has already commented on the performance of Mr Gs fund, and 
the possibility  that he might  have switched funds, so I wont  consider the issue further. I can 
consider only the new issue  of whether  Mr G would have stopped contributing  to his fund 
had he received his statements.
Mr G bought his annuity  in 2011,  which is when Prudential say his last statement  should 
have been sent. I would have expected  Mr G to ask Prudential about any missing 
statements sooner  than he did. Prudential no longer has copies  of Mr Gs statements, and 
our investigator has explained the processes Prudential says it would have followed at the 
time. I dont find it surprising or concerning  that Prudential no longer have historic 
statements, given more  than six years have passed  since his TAVC was paid up. On 
Ref: DRN08381534balance, I dont think theres enough  evidence  to show the statements werent sent. It follows 
that Ive dont uphold this aspect of Mr Gs complaint.
delay in making contributions  to the TAVC
The letter sent to Mr G by the pensions ombudsman in September  2012 says he signed the 
TAVC application form on 22 May 2000.  But Mr Gs first contribution into his TAVC wasnt 
paid until 7 September 2000. Mr G thinks his contributions should have started  sooner.
Its likely  Mr Gs payslip  from his employer would have shown whether contributions  to the 
TAVC were being taken  and if Mr G thought  his TAVC should  have  been  set up sooner, I 
would have expected him to raise this with Prudential or his employer at the time. Its going 
to be difficult to tell, some  18 years later, whether the employer would  have been  able to 
start the contributions any sooner. 
In addition, I should clarify this isnt money  Mr G missed out on  Mr G had the use of the 
money that was not deducted  from his salary to pay a contribution into his TAVC. Its 
possible he could have  missed out on a small amount  of tax relief and growth if he had made 
a contribution in, say, June 2000. But he would likely have been taxed on most of the 
proceeds of the TAVC when he received it as a pension  and I note hes complained  
separately that the performance of the TAVC was poor in any event. But I dont  think  this is a 
significant loss we could quantify even if I were to conclude there was an error. 
missing funds
charges
In 2000, Prudential applied a charge of 1% to Mr Gs contributions,  which meant  99% of his 
contributions were invested in his TAVC. Prudential say Mr G would  have been  provided 
with a copy of the TAVC guide at the point of sale. Page 3 of the booklet lists the charge is 
1% of the contribution. But Mr G says he wasnt made aware of the charges that would be 
applied to his TAVC  in 2000.
Ive considered the letter sent to Mr G by the pensions ombudsman  in September  2012. The 
letter says the application form was signed by Mr G on 22 May 2000.  The application 
included a declaration which included the following statement:
I have received  "Your Personal  Quotation" and the Members  brochure "An easy  
way to top up your pension paying particular attention to the section entitled Key 
Features on pages 2 and 3
The brochure, which Prudential  have  provided a copy  of, does indeed list the proportion  of 
contributions that will be invested into the TAVC.  The pensions ombudsman  found that Mr G 
signed a declaration confirming hed been  provided  with this booklet.  
In Mr Gs submissions  to our service, he has said it has come to light that Prudential are 
taking nearly 10% in charges. There are likely  to be ongoing costs  to run the TAVC in 
addition to the one-off amount taken from each contribution set out above. Prudential  
deducts ongoing charges  from the bonuses applied  to Mr Gs fund and Ive not been 
provided with details of any specific charges Mr G thinks were applied  incorrectly.
Ref: DRN08381535bonuses
Mr G says the bonuses  applied to his TAVC dropped dramatically from 2001. Prudential  say 
all bonuses  were applied  correctly in line with its bonus declarations. Having reviewed 
Mr Gs contributions,  the bonuses applied increased year on year from April 2001  and Mr G 
hasnt provided  evidence to show the bonuses were calculated incorrectly. However, our 
investigator has explained to Mr G that any remaining concerns about the performance of his 
fund should be directed  to the Financial  Conduct Authority which  (under its predecessor,  the 
FSA) supervised Prudentials management  of its with-profits fund at the time.
missing cheques
Prudential says it sent Mr G two cheques to return overpayments  to the TAVC  the first was 
sent in June 2010 and the second was in October  2010. Mr G doesnt  seem to dispute  the 
dates of the letters Prudential provided to show the cheques were  sent,  and the cheques 
appear to have been sent to his correct address. Mr G still says Prudential should prove the 
cheques werent  cashed   but I dont think the responsibility here should lie with Prudential.  
If Mr G believes  he didnt receive the cheques, Id expect him to provide some evidence  to 
support his claim. I dont think its reasonable to ask Prudential to check its records, 
particularly as its unlikely  it would have records going back over seven years.
communication
Mr G thinks Prudential withheld key information from him and acted fraudulently throughout. 
Mr G has been directed to the ICO for any concerns  that Prudential withheld  his personal 
information.
Having reviewed the history of this complaint, its clear Mr G feels  very strongly that he 
should not have been sold his TAVC. 
Mr G bought his TAVC 18 years  ago. He paid up his TAVC and bought  an annuity in 2011. 
Throughout the years, Mr G has continued to bring new complaints about his TAVC to 
Prudential. Because  were  dealing with events so long ago, it was inevitable  that some 
information would no longer be held,  or easily retrievable, by Prudential. I think  Prudential  
has made efforts to respond  to these long after it was obliged  to, given the time thats 
passed since Mr G paid up his TAVC.
I know my decision is likely to disappoint  Mr G. I can see that dealing with Prudential has 
caused Mr G a lot of frustration, particularly against the background of his personal  
circumstances. Having  considered Mr Gs complaints made over the many years  about his 
TAVC as thoroughly  as possible, I would  hope Mr G feels able to draw  a line under his past 
dealings with Prudential.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0838153