K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card application form completed at the 
time. I think its likely  the selection of PPI on the form was computerised  but I think its more 
likely than not that this was added following a discussion. Mr S has signed the form which  
indicates he wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Mr S was taking out further  credit, if he 
didnt want the PPI, I would have expected him to raise this before he signed the application.  
So having  taken everything into account,  I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr S didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover. 
Mr S has told us he had some sick pay but the policy  could have paid out for up to 12 
months in the event  of a successful claim if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. And it 
would have paid out over and above any employee  benefits he may have  received.  So I 
think Mr S would have found  the policy useful in what  could have been a financially difficult  
time. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said including that he wanted to keep  his costs down, 
but because of what Ive said, these points  dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the reasons and set out above, 
I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of Scotland plc doesnt need  to refund 
everything Mr S paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr S back some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr S, if it hasnt already done so, now 
Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN07071222my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0707122