K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H, represented by their neighbour, Ms B, have  complained about their secured 
loan with Nemo Personal  Finance Limited.  They say that, when they took out the loan in 
2007, they were  never made aware  of the total cost of the borrowing. Mr and Mrs H are also 
unhappy about the way they were  treated  when  they fell into financial difficulty. They  claim 
Nemo harassed them daily from 8am to 8pm. They also say that Nemo wanted  to charge 
them £50 for changing  the date of a direct  debit. 
To settle  the complaint, Mr and Mrs H want Nemo  to write off the balance  of the loan and 
pay compensation for the upset caused  to them.
background
After taking advice  from a broker, Mr and Mrs H took out a loan with Nemo  in December 
2007. The loan is secured  on their property and is regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. They  borrowed £21,000 over a term of 25 years.
In a letter dated 11 June 2019 the investigator set out the history of whats happened  since 
then, so I wont repeat the details here; all parties in the case have a copy of that letter. But 
to summarise, unfortunately  Mr and Mrs H fell into financial  difficulty  after Mr H was made  
redundant in 2011, and the account  fell into arrears.
Payment arrangements were set up, which were kept to at times, and not at other times. 
After receiving help from a debt advisory service, StepChange, a payment plan was made to 
clear the arrears and by January 2017 they were paid off.
In 2019 Ms B, on behalf  of Mr and Mrs H, raised  a complaint about the way theyd been  
treated. Mr and Mrs H also said theyd been  unaware that the total cost of the loan, including 
interest, was just over £59,000. Theyd thought  it was only about £38,000. They  feel the loan 
was mis-sold and, given  the amount theyve already repaid, Nemo  should write off the 
balance.
Nemo didnt uphold  the complaint. In its final response Nemo explained how the loan 
worked, with the majority of the early payments going towards  interest. Nemo also explained 
that the arrears  on the account  had also affected the outstanding balance. 
Nemo also looked  at the complaint about  the £50 fee for changing a direct  debit  date. Nemo  
looked at the account  history and noted that there was one occasion in 2014  when Mr H 
asked about amending the direct debit  date. Nemo told him that there would be an interest 
adjustment as a result, and Mr H said not to go ahead with the change.
Nemo said that, although it had the option of putting in place interest waivers or reducing  
payments over a short term,  it hadnt  done so in this case. Thats  because  Mr H had 
confirmed he was expecting a redundancy payment which would allow him to maintain the 
repayments. 
Nemo also disputed that it had harassed Mr and Mrs H daily from 8am to 8pm. It said it had 
only contacted  Mr and Mrs H when  the payment arrangements  had been  broken. Nemo also 
disputed its agents  had been rude and had bullied Mr and Mrs H. But because Mr and Mrs H 
couldnt specify the dates when they said this had happened,  Nemo  wasnt  able to comment 
further on this.
Ref: DRN08377162Unhappy with Nemos  response,  the complaint was brought to us. An investigator looked at 
the complaint,  but didnt think Nemo had done  anything wrong. Ms B asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint and provided Mr and Mrs Hs further comments. They  
have reiterated  their contention  that they were made  to believe the total figure  they would 
have to repay is £38,730, not the £59,730 theyve now learned  was the full amount. They 
say they would never have taken out the loan if theyd not been  misled about this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I must explain that, although  Ms B has brought the complaint, she does  so as a 
representative, in the same  way that other consumers might instruct  a solicitor,  financial  
adviser or accountant  to bring  a complaint on their behalf. Ms Bs role is limited to putting  
forward Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. So although  Ive noted Ms Bs comments  about  Nemo, as 
a representative  shes not entitled  to air her own grievances about  what she perceives to be 
Nemos shortcomings. Ive therefore limited my consideration  of this complaint to what Mr 
and Mrs H have said.
Mr and Mrs H say that they were unaware  of the total amount of the loan.  The loan 
agreement shows the amount  borrowed  as £21,000 and the amount of interest payable as 
£38,730. This adds  up to £59,730. 
The monthly repayments were £199.10,  over a period  of 300 months.  £199.10 times by 300 
adds up to £59,730. Given this, its difficult to see how Mr and Mrs H were  confused  about  
the amount theyd  have to repay.
But in any event, they took out the loan through a broker. If they consider the terms of the 
loan were misrepresented to them  at the point  of sale, then thats something theyd need  to 
take up with the broker.  Having  looked at the credit agreement, Im satisfied that the total 
amount of interest  payable is clearly shown.
Im sorry  to see that Mr and Mrs H have had some  financial  difficulties. I can appreciate how 
stressful this has been for them. Because of missed payments on the account, the amount 
left to repay  over the remaining term has increased.  The explanation Nemo has given for this 
in its final response letter  is correct. Ive reviewed the account statements and these 
accurately reflect the payment history and the effect of missed  payments on the remaining 
balance.
Its understandable  that when borrowers are unable to meet their repayments, they can 
become very stressed about this, particularly where a loan is secured  on their home. Contact 
from a creditor can appear  to the borrower  to be harassment, particularly  if there isnt a 
payment arrangement in place, or if an arrangement is broken. From the creditors  
perspective, where it seems from the payment  history that there might be financial problems, 
they will try to contact the borrower to discuss this.
Ive reviewed the account history and listened  to all the call recordings. But I cant see that 
Nemo has bullied or harassed  Mr and Mrs H as they say  although I fully acknowledge that 
this is how Mr and Mrs H perceive it. I think Nemos attempts to speak to Mr and Mrs H were 
Ref: DRN08377163reasonable and proportionate to the situation,  and happened when  payment  arrangements  
had failed.
Ive also been  unable to identify a specific incident where Nemo said it would  charge  Mr and 
Mrs H £50 to change  the date of their direct debit. The fee for this in Nemos tariff of charges 
(available online) is £25. But I cant see that the date was changed or that a fee was charged  
for this.
In all the circumstances, taking into account everything Mr and Mrs H and Nemo have said,  
Im unable to uphold this complaint. I think Nemo has worked within  its regulatory obligations 
to try to help Mr and Mrs H. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H and Ms B dont see it that way, but as 
an objective reviewer of this complaint, Im unable to find that Nemo has done anything 
wrong.
my final decision
I know Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed,  but my decision is that I am not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0837716