K820x#14complaint
Mr P1 and P2 have told us that Close Motor Finance Limited (CMF) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  They were sold the PPI in 2009 when Mr P1 took 
out a hire purchase (HP) agreement to buy a car. The HP agreement was in joint names  with 
Mr P2. The policy was set up to cover  Mr P1 only.  
background
In November 2008 Mr P1 and Mr P2 jointly took out a hire purchase  (HP) agreement to buy 
a car. 
On 6 January  2009 they were sold a PPI policy during a telephone  call between Mr P1 and 
CMF. The policy covered  Mr P1 only. The policy could have paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 
12 months if Mr P1 could  not work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.             
The monthly premium for the policy was £17.12.
In February 2010  Mr P1 made a successful unemployment claim on the policy and received 
£287.53 from the insurer. 
The HP agreement  was settled early  in April 2011.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 later complained to CMF about  the sale of the PPI. CMF replied to say the 
policy was not mis-sold  but it offered to make a payment of £168.88 for undisclosed 
commission it had received for the sale.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 remained  unhappy with CMFs response and asked us to step in. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  this complaint and thought the policy had been mis-sold. They 
thought CMF should refund all the PPI premiums  that Mr P1 and Mr P2 paid. CMF disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was been passed to me to consider.
In October  2019 I issued  my provisional  findings  on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to find that the policy  was mis-sold, my 
main reasons were:
I thought the finance was already in place before the policy was sold during a 
telephone call to Mr P1. So its likely Mr P1 was aware he didnt have to take the 
policy to get the finance.
Ive seen a script that CMF says was in use at the time of the sale and I can see the 
CMF adviser would be expected to ask Mr P1s permission to go ahead and add the 
policy.
CMF showed us records of its internal systems  which noted that Mr P1 asked the 
CMF adviser to call him back after he had spoken to his parents  about the PPI.
All of which made me think the policy  was presented as optional.
Ref: DRN03703102Looking at Mr P1s circumstances  at the time I thought he had a need  for the cover  
and the policy was right for him.
I couldnt tell if CMF  gave Mr P1 all the information it should  have during the 
telephone call. But even if it had done so, I still felt Mr P1 would have agreed to buy 
the policy.
So I didnt think the policy  was mis-sold  to Mr P1 and Mr P2.
Which meant CMF  didnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P1 and Mr 
P2.
But CMF will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P1 and Mr P2 because:  
CMF got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P1 and Mr P2 about  that. Because  CMF  didnt 
tell Mr P1 and Mr P2, that was unfair.  
To put that right, CMF  has basically  offered  to pay back the amount  of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I thought  that offer 
was fair in this case.
Mr P1 and Mr P2s representatives have  told us they have nothing  further  to add.
CMF has not responded to my provisional  findings.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Neither CMF nor Mr P1 or Mr P2 has replied with any new evidence or points  for me to 
consider. Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my provisional 
decision in October 2019.
what the business needs  to do
CMF has to pay back to Mr P1 and Mr P2 any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. CMF  should  also pay back to Mr P1 and Mr P2 any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
CMF should pay back to Mr P1 and Mr P2 the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. CMF should also 
pay Mr P1 and Mr P2 8%* simple  interest  on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P1 and P2 can claim back the 
tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN03703103my final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Close Motor Finance Limited 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P1 and P2.
But, if it has not already  done so, Close Motor Finance  Limited does have to pay back to    
Mr P1 and P2 any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P1 and P2 to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr P1 and P2 have told us that Close Motor Finance Limited (CMF) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  They were sold the PPI in 2009 when Mr P1 took 
Ref: DRN03703104out a hire purchase (HP) agreement to buy a car. The HP agreement was in joint names  with 
Mr P2. The policy was set up to cover  Mr P1 only.  
background
In November 2008 Mr P1 and Mr P2 jointly took out a hire purchase  (HP) agreement to buy 
a car. 
On 6 January  2009 they were sold a PPI policy during a telephone  call between Mr P1 and 
CMF. The policy covered  Mr P1 only. The policy could have paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 
12 months if Mr P1 could  not work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.             
The monthly premium for the policy was £17.12.
In February 2010  Mr P1 made a successful unemployment claim on the policy and received 
£287.53 from the insurer. 
The HP agreement  was settled early  in April 2011.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 later complained to CMF about  the sale of the PPI. CMF replied to say the 
policy was not mis-sold  but it offered to make a payment of £168.88 for undisclosed 
commission it had received for the sale.
Mr P1 and Mr P2 remained  unhappy with CMFs response and asked us to step in. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  this complaint and thought the policy had been mis-sold. They 
thought CMF should refund all the PPI premiums  that Mr P1 and Mr P2 paid. CMF disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I dont intend to find the policy was mis-sold  and Ill explain the reasons  for this. 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 told us the PPI had been  added without their knowledge and it wasnt 
made clear the policy was optional.
Ive thought about this but it seems  clear from the account records that the HP finance was 
in place before Mr P1 received a telephone call about PPI. So I dont think  it is likely that     
Mr P1 would  think he needed to take out a PPI policy to obtain  the finance.
CMF has also shown us a copy of the script that it says was in use by its advisers at the time 
of the sale. I dont know how closely the adviser  followed the script but I do think  its likely to 
give an indication of the structure  of the call. And I can see from the script that the adviser 
would need to have asked  Mr P1 if he was happy  to go ahead.
CMF has also shown us records of the telephone call from its system and it notes that Mr P1 
requested a call back  so he could discuss the insurance with his parents. The notes indicate 
that Mr P1 then agreed to the cover when CMF called him back.
Ref: DRN03703105Ive also seen a letter addressed to Mr P1 from CMF confirming the cover had been  put in 
place and setting  out some  details of the PPI. I think if Mr P1 had not agreed  to the cover he 
would have questioned the contents of the letter. 
Taking all this into account I think Mr P1 was made  aware of the PPI policy  and that it was 
optional and chose  to take it, although after ten years or more its understandable if he cant  
recall this.
Looking at the script and the welcome letter sent to Mr P1, I think  it is clear  that CMF 
advised him to take out the PPI. So it had a duty to make sure it was right for him. And I 
think it was right for him for the following reasons:
The policy covered Mr P1 only. He was working  and was eligible for the cover provide by the 
policy. So he was able to claim on the policy if he needed to. And I can see Mr P1 did make 
a successful claim on the policy.
The policy contained  some exclusions,  but from what Ive seen Mr P1 was not affected by 
any of these. For example  he had no existing medical conditions  that would not have been 
covered.
Mr P1 would  have received some sick pay from his employer but this particular PPI policy  
could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim. And this is longer than      
Mr P1s full sick pay would  last. So I think he would have found  it useful if he became too 
unwell to work. Particularly if he was unable to work for a prolonged period of time. 
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Mr P1 became unemployed.
Mr P1 has told us hed be able to rely on family for help. But this type of help isnt always  
available when its most needed.  And in any event the PPI would have meant  Mr P1 didnt 
have to ask family for help to meet  his HP repayments.
So taking into account Mr P1s circumstances I think the policy recommended by CMF  was 
right for him.
 
Its possible that CMF didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr P1 would have 
changed his mind about buying the policy if he had been given better or clearer  information.         
I cant say he would  have  done. 
I say this because  the policy was right for him, it looks like he had a need for the cover,       
he chose to buy it so he was interested in this type of cover,  and he wasnt caught  by any of 
the policys main limitations  or exclusions.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that CMF made  the cost of the PPI clear to Mr P1. But I can see 
from the sales script that it directed the representative of CMF to explain the monthly and 
total costs of the premium to Mr P1 during the phone call and I think  it most likely did so.  
All of which means  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold to Mr P1 and Mr P2.
Which means CMF  wont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P1 and Mr P2.
Ref: DRN03703106But CMF  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P1 and Mr P2 because:  
CMF got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P1 and Mr P2 about  that. Because  CMF  didnt tell 
Mr P1 and Mr P2, that was unfair. 
To put that right, CMF  has basically  offered  to pay back the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
CMF has to pay back to Mr P1 and Mr P2 any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. CMF  should  also pay back to Mr P1 and Mr P2 any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
CMF should pay back to Mr P1 and Mr P2 the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. CMF should also 
pay Mr P1 and Mr P2 8%* simple  interest  on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P1 and P2 can claim back the 
tax if they dont pay tax.
my provisional decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so I intend to find that Close  Motor  Finance Limited  does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P1 and P2.
But, if it has not already  done so, Close Motor Finance  Limited does have to pay back to    
Mr P1 and P2 any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
I now invite both parties  to send me any further  evidence or information theyd like me to 
consider. 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0370310