K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that the vehicle she acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by Mi Vehicle Finance  Limited (MIVF) wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. She 
wants the business to refund the cost of repairs.
background
Mrs K is represented in this complaint by Mr S. But for ease of reading Ill mostly refer just to 
Mrs K.
Mrs K tells us that in December 2016 she acquired  a vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as 
CD. She says the vehicle was supplied with a three year or 100,000 miles warranty. Mrs K 
states that she wasnt supplied with any maintenance or servicing instructions. And she 
informs us that the vehicle broke  down  in January 2019. Mrs K says she tried to have the 
repairs completed under the vehicle warranty. But she advises that the manufacturer,  a 
company Ill refer to as F, declared the warranty invalid as shed not had the oil and fuel 
filter changed at the recommended mileage of 37,500. She says she had to get the vehicle 
repaired at her own cost as it was essential  for her work. And that she wants  to be 
compensated for both the repair costs  and loss of earnings.
MIVF told us that it had issued a final response  letter in January 2019.  In this it said it had 
explained the vehicle wouldve been supplied  with an owners pack  including vehicle manual 
and service book. And that as the vehicle had been  serviced at least  twice  since supply it felt 
it would  be the responsibility of the servicing garage  to advise on specific issues.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 March 2020. I said that I didnt intend  
to uphold the complaint. And that I didnt consider it fair and reasonable to expect a business 
to explain all aspects of a vehicles servicing requirements. And that it was reasonable to 
expect the consumer to make themselves  familiar with such details.
Since issuing my provisional  decision the only response from MIVF was an automated  email  
acknowledging receipt of the provisional  decision.  Mr S replied on behalf of Mrs K, saying 
that there  was common fault with the gearbox  on these vehicles which  had now come to 
light.
I thank Mr S for his response on behalf of Mrs K. But as no new information  has been 
supplied Im not minded to alter my provisional decision which  is largely repeated in my final 
decision set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs K had the misfortune to have the vehicle breakdown  and that she incurred 
considerable expense in getting it repaired.  I accept  this wouldve been particularly 
disappointing given  that she thought shed done all that was required  to maintain the vehicle.
Broadly speaking, the thrust of Mrs Ks complaint is that she wasnt  provided with specific  
servicing details at the time the vehicle was supplied. Its her view that this has contributed to 
the breakdown  of the vehicle. And that it led to the warranty being invalidated.
Ref: DRN09698792This seems to raise  three main  issues:
1.Was the vehicle  warranty unfairly declared invalid?
2.Was there a misrepresentation of the vehicle and/or vehicle warranty  by CD in terms
            of the servicing requirements?
3.Was the vehicle  of satisfactory  quality and/ or fit for purpose when supplied?
Ill deal with these  matters separately although  there is some  overlap between the issues.
Mrs Ks hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. MIVF  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA).
Additionally, the effect of section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  means that if 
thered been a misrepresentation  by the credit  broker  (CD)  regarding  the agreement  or the 
goods, MIVF would potentially be liable for any losses Mrs K incurred as the result of the 
misrepresentation.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I have to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities.
Ill deal firstly with the issue  of whether  it was unfair  for the warranty  to be declared invalid. 
From the information Ive been given it seems  the warranty is provided by the vehicle 
manufacturer F. So whether Fs decision to invalidate  the warranty was fair or not isnt a 
matter I can deal with in this complaint as F isnt a party  to it. And nothing  in section 56 CCA 
makes MIVF  liable for the actions of F in relation to the warranty.
Ive also considered the issue of whether there  was a misrepresentation relating to the 
servicing requirements. Normally a misrepresentation  occurs  where theres  been a false  
statement of fact which has induced  a consumer to enter an agreement and suffer a loss 
due to the misrepresentation. But its possible - in some limited circumstances - for there to 
be a misrepresentation  by omission. As an example this might occur  in the case  of a half 
truth. So that a statement which is true as far as it goes, nonetheless can amount to a 
misrepresentation if it fails to disclose the whole truth.
Here the complaint centres on the alleged failure to supply  general  maintenance and 
servicing requirements. And the specific failure  to advise Mrs K about the precise  warranty  
terms. I accept  Mrs K doesnt recall being  provided with the vehicles general servicing 
requirements. Although  as this was a new vehicle  it seems more probable than not that it 
wouldve come  with an owners manual and/or service book. But even if this wasnt  so it 
wouldnt change my decision.
Ref: DRN09698793Its reasonable to expect  a consumer to accept  some responsibility for obtaining information  
if they think they may require it. Id expect any motorist to be aware that vehicles need  
servicing at intervals  and - if they werent given specific information  - Id have expected  that 
fact to be raised at the time of supply. Mrs K clearly  was aware of the need to keep the 
vehicle serviced as she arranged for two periodic services to be completed. Its also the case  
that a misrepresentation has to induce a consumer into entering the agreement. It seems 
improbable that servicing requirements were a key consideration in Mrs Ks decision to 
acquire this vehicle.  Otherwise Id expect her to have made specific enquiries at the time.
It would be unreasonable to impose upon a car dealer/ credit broker  an obligation that every 
single term of a vehicles maintenance schedule and/ or warranty requirements had to be 
specifically brought  to a customers attention. For reasons Ive explained  above,  I cant deal 
directly with the issue of the warranty requirements for this vehicle. But Id expect a customer 
- if they felt the issue was important to them - to make enquiries if information wasnt 
provided regarding  the exact terms on which the validity of the warranty depended.  So CD 
not mentioning  the specific servicing  requirement  relating to the transmission fluid does not, 
in my opinion, amount  to a misrepresentation by omission.
Turning finally to the issue of satisfactory quality. This was a new vehicle when supplied  to 
Mrs K. So amongst other  considerations - in order to be of satisfactory quality - it needed to 
be free from even minor  defects and durable. The breakdown occurred more  than two years 
after supply when  the vehicle had covered around 38,000 miles. In the absence  of any 
plausible information  to show that the vehicle didnt conform to contract  at the time of supply 
(such as manufacturing faults), MIVF wouldnt be liable when the vehicle broke down  after 
this amount of use.
 
I understand from Mrs K that prior to the breakdown  shed had the vehicle serviced  at two 
local garages. And that additionally  shed taken the vehicle  into one of these businesses,  a 
garage Ill refer to as AF, in 2017  and December 2018 complaining  about  a rattling noise. 
She says that nothing  was diagnosed. A few weeks after the latter report  the vehicle broke  
down with gearbox failure. Ive not been  supplied with sufficient information  to be able to say 
if these events are connected or if the rattling  noise was symptomatic  of the subsequent 
breakdown. But even if there was some failing on AFs part - and Im not saying there  was - 
its not something for which  MIVF would be liable. And as AF isnt a party  to this complaint I 
cant make  any formal  findings in relation to it.
In summary,  theres insufficient information to show the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
or fit for purpose when supplied. And theres  nothing  to show  that any misrepresentation 
took place with regard to the vehicle or its servicing requirements.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs K Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN09698794my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0969879