K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs representative, a claims management  company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice, by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited.  
The CMC says:
Mr B had no need for the savings policies  he was sold.  
No evidence that other options  were discussed or that Mr B had other  savings plans. 
Mr B requested a reduction in the monthly contribution  which suggests that it was too 
expensive for him. 
Although Mr B was 29 years  of age and married, he was in a volatile job, and 
shouldnt have  been recommended such an inflexible contract. 
background
In February 1993,  Mr B was sold a 25-year term capital builder policy with £50 a month 
contribution. In June  1993, Mr B was sold another  policy on identical terms. 
In 2001, Mr B surrendered the policies.  The February policy  paid out £4,509.76 and the June 
policy paid out £3,118.93.  
Sun Life partially upheld  the complaint. In short, it said:
The recommendation was suitable, other  than the length  of term which was 
unsuitable.
Mr B was married and had a mortgage of £121,000.  The only evidence of life cover 
was an endowment policy for £60,000. 
The policies included life cover  as part of the qualifying element of the cover. And as 
he was a higher  rate tax payer  earning just over £45,000 a year, it wouldve been 
beneficial to him at maturity. 
The CMC disagreed with the business  and suggests  Mr B wouldve been  better  in a deposit-
based account. In short  it says:
Mr B had no savings. 
His employment wasnt in investments. 
Sun Lifes argument about  the duration  is incorrect. Mr B struggled with the policies 
from fairly early on and eventually surrendered both policies after eight years. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
Sun Lifes advice to invest was unsuitable.
Mr Bs investment was in four funds equally split as follows: deposit,  equity, 
American, and Oriental. 
But there was no suggestion that alternatives were discussed and no evidence his 
attitude to risk was considered. 
Ref: DRN06814012Mr B had a disposable income  of around £700  of which  he invested £600 a year per 
policy. There was nothing to suggest  he couldnt afford to pay into the policies. 
Although Mr Bs circumstances did change  after taking out the policies, this only 
became apparent, with hindsight. 
Mr B wasnt specifically looking  for life cover, and the cover he was getting he didnt 
need. 
Although theres some  dispute between Mr Bs circumstances. She thinks it was only 
suitable to expose  Mr Bs funds  to a small amount of risk only. 
Sun Life should therefore  pay Mr B redress based on the 50/50 benchmark.   
Sun Life disagreed  with the investigators conclusions  and has asked for an ombudsmans  
review. In summary it said:
Even though  Mr B didnt hold other assets  that doesnt mean he didnt  understand 
the risks.
Mr B invested in four funds, none of which were default funds,  suggests  some 
conversation was had about the different types  of funds and the risks involved.  
In 1993, there was no requirement to record such discussions even if they took 
place. 
The level of life cover  was set at the minimum amount, set for 25 years, to retain its 
qualifying status. 
It still believes Mr B shouldve  been  recommended a 10-year extendable  term as this 
wouldve provided him with a greater return on the monthly premiums. 
Based  on Mr B being married, a higher rate tax payer, and a minimum amount of life 
insurance for qualifying purposes the recommendation was suitable. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change her 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance,  Im not persuaded that the 
recommendations were  suitable. 
Whats at the heart of this complaint is the redress, and the basis  upon  which  it should be 
calculated. I note the business  says the issue is only in relation to the length of term. 
Despite what the business says Im unable to safely say that the Mr B wouldve opted for the 
savings policy with a 10-year term in the alternative. 
The parties have  provided detailed submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read 
and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont  take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
Ref: DRN06814013role is to consider  the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what  I 
think is an independent,  fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
I not Mr B was in his late 20s,  married and had a mortgage. Whilst I agree that he wanted to 
save (probably longer  term), with some  flexibility, Im not satisfied that the 25-year  savings 
policy with a life cover element wouldve been  suitable for him. Particularly given his age and 
circumstances. 
I note the business says that a 10-year  extendable  option was available  that doesnt appear  
to have been discussed. But given  that the business wasnt obliged  to keep a record  of these 
discussions at the time,  and didnt, Im unable to safely conclude  whether (or not) it was 
discussed and rejected  by Mr B or just wasnt discussed at all. 
In the circumstances, Im unable to safely say the 10-year policy was the alternative option 
he wouldve gone  for if he didnt invest in the 25-year term. Im mindful  Mr B surrendered 
both investments after eight years, having reduced  the monthly contributions  he was making. 
Its possible that affordability mightve  become  an issue but not at the time the policies were  
sold. 
I appreciate that life cover had some  benefits,  albeit limited. It was also likely to have had an 
impact on the investment  / growth  capacity  of the policies. But Im unable to say that that life 
cover was something Mr B had a specific need for or wanted, notwithstanding  the potential  
tax benefits. It seems to me he just wanted  to save.   
Furthermore, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr B was anything  other than in good 
health. Or that there was anything  about  his work or circumstances that might make  him 
prone to illness or likely  to need more cover. 
Im also not persuaded that Mr B was likely to have had an attitude to risk assessment. 
Despite what the business says, Im unable to say that Mr B chose to invest  in the selected 
funds  25% in the deposit  fund,  25% in the equity fund, 25% in the American  fund and 25% 
in the oriental fund. Im unable to say he wouldve done this without being advised  to do so.
I note the business says that Mr B was a currency trader  which  the CMC denies  and that 
it wasnt unreasonable for it to assume  he was aware of risk versus reward.  Putting aside 
what he did, Im not sure that wouldve been  reasonable to assume he knew  about the risks 
involved without asking  the relevant questions.  
In the circumstances, like the investigator Im unable to agree that the funds were suitable  
for Mr B, or that he specifically chose  them, happy with and aware of the risks involved.    
I appreciate its likely that documentation would  have  been supplied to Mr B that made 
reasonably clear the broad nature of the policies. However, given  Mr Bs inexperience, on 
balance overall,  I think  he wouldve  placed  greater emphasis  on what  he was told by the 
adviser.  
Ref: DRN06814014I also appreciate Mr B signed all the relevant forms, accepting  the recommendations, but its 
likely he did so on the advice and guidance  of Sun Life. And this didnt stop Sun Life finding 
this policy  wasnt suitable considering his needs.  
In terms of redress, Sun Life should  award  the following redress  in relation to both of the 
polices:
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Bs circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  you do? 
To compensate Mr B fairly  you should:
Compare the performance of Mr Bs investment with that of the Bank of England plus 
1 benchmark from the inception  of the policies until 31 January 1996 and pay the 
difference between  the fair value  and the actual  value of the investment. If the actual 
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Compare the performance of Mr Bs investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
You should also pay interest  as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. 
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Capital  
Builder 
surrenderedfor half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income  Total
Return  Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN06814015actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  you should  use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published  
by the Bank of England.  The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Apply those  rates to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted  household interest  rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking  
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted  household  interest rates / Deposit rates  - Fixed 
rate bonds  / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting  the source data.
Some examples of how the calculation should be carried out are available  on our website 
Ref: DRN06814016under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical  Resource'  / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'...
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited should pay the redress  as set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0681401