K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about a decision  taken  by BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) 
to hold him liable  for a £40,042.25 debt.
background
In April 2017 Mr A took delivery of a used  car costing £44,175.  Mr A paid a deposit of £5,000 
and financed the balance of £39,175  by way of a hire purchase  (HP) agreement with 
BMWFS. Under the HP agreement Mr A was required to make  47 monthly payments of 
£576.53 followed by one monthly payment of £22,786.35  total repayable  £49,883.26.
In early October 2018 Mr A agreed  to sell the car to a third party. Mr A agreed for the third 
party to pay for the car by settling his HP agreement with BMWFS directly and by paying  him 
£4,000 in cash.
 
3 October 2018 
A party calling themselves  Mr A called BMWFS to settle Mr As HP agreement  of 
£34,419.78. This party made two payments by card.
It was BMWFS intention to take one card payment  of £20,000 and one card payment of 
£14,419.78 from the party. But instead  it took one card payment of £2,000 and one card 
payment of £14,419.78.
BMWFS notified Mr A of the above and asked that he contact it.
A party calling themselves  Mr A called BMWFS to pay it £18,000 (£20,000  less £2,000).  This 
party made one payment  by card.
BMWFS sent Mr A a letter stating:
Please accept this letter as confirmation  that we have received payment (not yet in cleared 
funds) for full settlement  of your agreement in relation to the following vehicle
We will still own the vehicle until the payment  has cleared. This is normally six working  days  
after the payment  has been received.
4 October 2018 
A party calling themselves  Mr A called BMWFS to request  the removal  of the HP marker on 
the car. The party was advised  this wasnt possible until the October 2018 monthly payment 
of £576.53 had cleared the account.
A party calling themselves  Mr A called BMWFS to pay £576.53. This was to allow  the HP 
marker to be removed immediately. This party made  one payment by card (which was 
processed at £576.73).  BMWFS removed  the HP marker from the car and confirmed  to the 
party that a refund of £576.53 (or £576.73) would be made in due course.
Ref: DRN0392461215 October 2018
BMWFS sent Mr A a letter stating:
Thank you for your payment for the agreement shown above. We can confirm that you no 
longer have any obligations  under this agreement.
29 October to 26 November 2018
It comes  to BMWFS attention that the four card payments made to Mr As HP agreement  on 
3 and 4 October  2018 werent  made by Mr A but by somebody  else and made from a card or 
cards of one or more  third parties without those third parties knowledge or authority.
27 November 2018
Mr As HP agreement is debited with £18,000, with the same sum being refunded  back  to 
the card used on 3 October 2018 to make this payment.
12 December 2018
Mr As HP agreement is debited with £576.73, with the same sum being refunded  back  to 
the card used on 4 October 2018 to make this payment.
8 January 2019
Mr As HP agreement is debited with £2,000,  with the same sum being  refunded  back  to the 
card used on 3 October 2018 to make  this payment..
8 January 2019
Mr As HP agreement is debited with £14,419.78, with the same sum being  refunded  back  to 
the card used on 3 October 2018 to make this payment.
12 March 2019
Solicitors appointed  by BMWFS write  to Mr A seeking the sum of £40,042.25 from him, this 
being what BMWFS believes is the sum due and owing to it from Mr A under his HP 
agreement following the above sequence  of events.
 (£47,000.61 - £6,918.36  [12 x £576.53] - £40)
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld  in part. In summary  she said had BMWFS followed, correctly  and strictly, 
its own internal policies and procedures of not accepting card payments over £20,000 its 
unlikely, on the balance of probabilities, that it and Mr A would have been defrauded in the 
manner that they both appear to have  been. But equally, Mr A wouldnt have received, and 
had the benefit of, the £4,000 he received in cash.
Ref: DRN03924613She then went on to outline what  BMWFS  should  do to fairly  compensate  Mr A. This was to:
Reduce Mr As liability  to £4,000.
Treat Mr A fairly  and sympathetically when coming to an arrangement with him for 
the repayment of the above  reduced  liability of £4,000.
Treat Mr As HP agreement  as having  been  settled  (in full) on 15 October 2018.
Ensure the above  is what is recorded  with third party credit reference  agencies. In 
other words no adverse  information is recorded.
Mr A responded to say that he disagreed  with the investigators view. He said that:
He shouldnt have  to repay  BMWFS  the £4,000 he had received in respect  of the 
sale. 
As a result  of information recorded by BMWFS  in respect of his HP agreement he 
had suffered a loss of £15,000 on the sale of a second car, a car he had to sell for 
£120,000 rather  than trade in for £135,000.
BMWFS responded to say that it disagreed with the investigators view. It said that:
Under the terms of the HP agreement Mr A had no right to sell the car (to a third 
party) until he had settled the HP agreement with it in full. 
Mr A had facilitated what had happened  in this case by divulging  sufficient 
information to a third party for that third party to be able to clear its security questions  
and make the payments that it did.
The third party in this case  was acting as an agent for Mr A (not it) and so Mr A is 
responsible for what that third party did or didnt do.
And because of the above its entitled  to hold Mr A liable for the sum of £40,042.25 its 
seeking from him.
The investigator considered both parties responses to her view but wasnt  persuaded to 
change her mind. Therefore the complaint was passed to me for review  and decision.
Whilst the complaint  was with me for consideration Mr A contacted  the investigator to 
reiterate and expand  on his view that he had been  caused substantial distress  and 
inconvenience and substantial consequential losses as a result  of BMWFS  actions.
Mr A said that as well as suffering a loss of £15,000 on the sale of a second  car he has been 
unable to set up a new business, run his existing business in the way that he would like, 
obtain business finance, remortgage his home and purchase a second car.
Ref: DRN03924614I issued a provisional decision on this case in August  2020.  In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both have provided 
detailed submissions in support  of their respective views which  I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that the parties will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central  issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
It isnt in dispute that Mr A and BMWFS have both been subject to a fairly sophisticated 
fraud here. But taking  everything the parties  have said and submitted I think  the fairest 
remedy to this complaint  is along  the lines proposed by the investigator in her view.
Mr A says that he shouldnt have  to pay BMWFS the £4,000 cash he received. And that as 
well as treating his HP agreement as having been  settled on 15 October 2018, BMWFS 
should actually  compensate him for other  losses he has suffered and for the distress  and 
inconvenience he has been caused.
Had BMWFS  not processed the payments that it did, thus leading Mr A to believe  his HP 
agreement had been settled, its my view that he wouldnt  have received the £4,000 that he 
did, or that he would  have  been required to return it. So I dont think it would be appropriate 
for Mr A to keep this sum because to do so would result in him unfairly and unreasonably 
benefiting from the fraudulent trade/sale that took place here.
Mr A says that as a result of what happened he has suffered other losses.  However, and not 
withstanding Im not persuaded  that Mr A has been  able to sufficiently demonstrate  his 
additional losses, or that they have flowed directly from what  BMWFS  did or didnt do, I think 
that Mr A has to take some responsibility  for what happened here given that he, amongst 
other things,  attempted to sell the car whilst there  was still finance on it in direct breach of 
the HP agreement terms and conditions.
So Im not persuaded that it would  be appropriate for me to make any award  for what Mr A 
submits are additional losses.
Mr A also says that the whole matter has caused him distress  and inconvenience. Now I 
dont dispute what Mr A says on this point. But again  given that its my view Mr A should take 
some responsibility for what  happened  here Im not persuaded that it would  be appropriate 
that he should receive any compensation in this respect either.
BMWFS says that Mr A had no right under  the terms of his HP agreement to sell the car (to 
a third party) until he had settled the HP agreement  with it in full. But I cant see that doing so 
has caused the loss subject to this complaint. I say this because  had Mr A waited until 
BMWFS had confirmed the HP agreement  had been settled in full (on 15 October 2018) 
before selling the car  and thus avoiding being  in breach  and he then did so (and he did 
so before 29 October 2018)  the loss subject  to this complaint would  have still accrued.
Ref: DRN03924615I appreciate that Mr A facilitated  what happened in this case  by divulging certain information 
(about himself) to a third party and because of this it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to award 
him the further  sums  he is seeking  by way of compensation. But Im not persuaded that he 
divulged what he did with gross negligence.  So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable to allow  BMWFS to seek the sum of £40,042.25 from Mr A that its looking to do.
BMWFS says it should be able to seek recovery of the sum of £40,042.25 from Mr A 
because this sum accrued as a result  of what a third party  did in its capacity as Mr As agent. 
And its view in this respect  is supported by the law of agency.
I appreciate the point  BMWFS is making  here. But even if I agreed that the third party  was 
acting as Mr As agent, and for the avoidance of doubt I make no finding  on this particular 
point, Im not persuaded that the relationship between Mr A and the third party  (whatever 
that might  have been ) has any material bearing on my findings.
As pointed  out by the investigator  a business  covered  by anti-money laundering regulations 
is required to have  anti-money laundering procedures and an overall policy in place to satisfy  
its legislative  and regulatory obligations and to prevent  financial crime and money 
laundering.
Now BMWFS has confirmed that as part of its procedures  and policies it doesnt  process  
payments of over £20,000 by card. Instead  it requires  such  payments to be made by cheque  
or bank  transfer.
Now in this case payment of £34,419.78 (plus  one further monthly payment of £576.53) was 
required to settle  Mr As HP agreement.  But instead  of insisting the party  posing as Mr A pay 
this sum by cheque or bank transfer, BMWFS instead decided to take a number of smaller 
payments by card over the phone.
Now I can understand that BMWFS might have  done this to be helpful and to provide what  it 
viewed as good customer service. But by doing  what it did BMWFS  circumvented its own 
procedures and policies,  procedures and policies that were in place to try and prevent 
precisely what happened in this case.
Now I appreciate that its possible that had BMWFS refused payment by card and instead  
insisted payment by cheque  or bank transfer  the position that both it and Mr A now find 
themselves in may be no different.  In other  words,  had BMWFS insisted on payment by 
cheque or bank transfer the party calling themselves Mr A might  have still been successful in 
settling the HP agreement.
But Im not persuaded, on the balance  of probabilities, this would have happened.  I say this 
because although  it would  appear  that the party posing as Mr A was in possession of one or 
more third party cards, or the details of the same,  I think its unlikely they would have been in 
possession of any cheque  books or sufficient  details to make a bank  transfer. 
So in my view had BMWFS applied its own policies  and procedures  correctly and strictly, 
and refused to allow payment by card, settlement of Mr As HP agreement  wouldnt have 
happened. Therefore I dont think its either fair or reasonable that BMWFS  should  be able to 
seek recovery from Mr A now the sum its trying  to do.
Ref: DRN03924616Mr A responded to say that he was unhappy with my provisional decision but felt he had no 
choice but to accept it.
BMWFS responded to say that it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr A accepted  my provisional  decision, albeit reluctantly, and that BMWFS  says it 
has nothing further  to add, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings  and I now 
confirm them  as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited must:
Reduce Mr As liability  to £4,000.
Treat Mr A fairly  and sympathetically when coming to an arrangement with him for 
the repayment of this reduced liability of £4,000.
Ensure the above  sum of £4,000 is what is recorded with credit  reference agencies 
as being the outstanding sum due and owing in respect  of Mr As HP agreement.
Ensure that any adverse  information  recorded with credit reference  agencies, up to 
the date this final decision is accepted by Mr A (if that is what  Mr A ultimately decides 
to do), is removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0392461