K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc wont attempt a chargeback under his 
cards chargeback scheme.
background
On 16 March 2015 Mr J entered  into a timeshare agreement with a company Ill call E and 
paid the £2,500 deposit using his NatWest  debit card. He then paid the remaining  £10,250  
balance on 7 May 2015 by bank transfer.  In June 2018, Mr J said that he hadnt received the 
service he was expecting  so he asked NatWest to attempt a chargeback  but it wouldnt do 
so. 
NatWest said that Mr J asked it to attempt a chargeback too late. It explained it had 120 
days under  the cards  scheme rules  to raise a chargeback  against  a retailer for goods or 
services not received. And that if the service  was ongoing, this could be extended  to 540 
days from when the card payment was made - but as Mr J had requested the chargeback in 
June 2018 it was too late for it to attempt  this. It also explained that Mr J wouldnt be able to 
claim under section 75 of the consumer credit act 1974 as this was for credit card payments 
only  so they couldnt do anything further to help.  
Mr J didnt agree so he asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong.  She said she couldnt look at 
whether the timeshare had been mis-sold to Mr J - only if NatWest  had followed the relevant 
chargeback scheme  guidelines. She explained  NatWest had strict rules to adhere  to and that 
Mr J had brought his complaint outside  of the maximum 540 days.  So she didnt recommend 
the complaint  be upheld.  
Mr J didnt agree as he thought he should be entitled to a full refund as hed been the victim 
of a scam.  So he asked  for an ombudsman to look into his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reason  as the investigator.  
Under the relevant card scheme rules Mr J is entitled to ask NatWest to try and recover  all or 
part of the money  he paid,  provided there is evidence of a breach of contract.  But there  is a 
strict time limit which is set by the card scheme (not NatWest) of 120 calendar days  for a 
bank to raise a chargeback against a transaction paid for by a debit card. Or 540 calendar 
days, if they payment is for a contract to provide services  at a future date (in this case  a 
holiday). This commences  from the date of processing or the date the cardholder expected 
to receive the goods or service. And in this case Mr J had requested the chargeback over 
1150 days later so NatWest wasnt able to raise this for him  which I dont  think was 
unreasonable.
I do recognise that Mr J has lost a significant  amount of money, and that my decision will be 
very disappointing for him as its not the outcome  he was hoping for. However whilst I 
acknowledge Mr Js comments about  being  a victim of fraud, his complaint is in relation to 
how NatWest have  treated him under the chargeback  scheme rules - which is what I have to 
Ref: DRN08081722look at. And based  on these rules I dont think NatWest has treated Mr J unfairly by saying  
hes out of time to make a claim. So I wont be asking  it to do anything  more.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0808172