K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC added a deceased  marker  to his current  account 
incorrectly. He says the error caused  him embarrassment and upset.
background
In September  2018, Mr T says he went into a shop  and as he tried to pay for his shopping 
his card payment  was declined. 
Mr T told his wife, who then contacted Lloyds and was told there was a deceased marker on 
Mr Ts accounts  and so his cards  had been blocked. Lloyds investigated the issue  and 
explained that it had incorrectly attached the death  certificate of another customer  to Mr Ts 
account.
Lloyds rectified the error and on 4 October 2018, Lloyds removed the deceased marker from 
Mr Ts. Lloyds offered Mr T £500 for the trouble and upset caused. Lloyds also ensured that 
Mr T wasnt charged late fees or interest  on his missed  payment on his Lloyds credit  card 
during the time his account  was blocked.
When Mr T referred  his complaint to this service,  it was looked at by one of our investigators 
who thought that Lloyds  had acted reasonably in the way it put things right and so she didnt 
recommend that Lloyds  should do anything further.
Mr T disagreed saying the offer doesnt  reflect the degree of trouble and upset he was 
caused by Lloyds error.
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me  an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Lloyds made an error  by adding a deceased  marker  to Mr Ts account  
using the death certificate  of another customer. When Lloyds did this, it closed Mr Ts 
account which meant that the direct debits  hed set up on his account didnt go through when 
they should have. It also meant that Mr T was unable to make  payments with his cards as 
theyd been blocked. All parties  accept  that this was a mistake,  so whats left for me to 
consider is whats fair and reasonable way to put things right. 
To decide that, Ive considered the impact  of the mistake on Mr T, including what  steps  he 
had to take to get things put right and any trouble and upset caused.  Im mindful that within  a 
few days Lloyds removed  the deceased marker  and took steps to rectify the error. Lloyds 
restored Mr Ts account, issued new cards and set up a new direct debit for Mr Ts credit 
card payment. Lloyds  also offered to support  Mr T in restoring his direct  debit with another  
business. This is what Id expect Lloyds to do in order to rectify its mistake  and I think  it did 
this within  a reasonable time. 
Ref: DRN06916502Mr T has provided  very detailed  comments on the impact this mistake  had on him. In 
particular, he said he lives in a small village  and is well known to help others financially and 
so this error  had impacted his reputation. He says this because many  people who knew  him 
witnessed his card being declined in the shop  and the news travelled around the village 
quickly. 
Im sorry  that Mr T had to go through this, and I can understand why he says this caused him 
to feel that his reputation had been  affected in the community.  So as well as making sure 
Mr Ts accounts  were up and running  again, Lloyds needed to do something  to acknowledge 
the upset and embarrassment caused to Mr T. 
I think Lloyds acted  within a reasonable time and took steps to rectify its error. Within  a few 
days the deceased marker had been  removed and Mr Ts access to his account and 
automated payments had been restored.  Ive also taken into account the impact the error 
had on Mr T, in particular having  his card declined in a local shop and the nature of the error  
and I think that the offer of £500 by Lloyds fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr T and any reputational damage. So, I dont  think Lloyds needs to do any more to put 
things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. As I think  Lloyds Bank PLCs 
offer of £500 is fair and reasonable, I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
If Mr T now wishes to accept Lloyds offer, he should contact it directly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0691650