K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mrs W says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold her the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
Im satisfied from the paperwork completed at the time and the evidence overall that 
Lloyds made Mrs W aware that she had a choice about  buying the MPPI, and that she 
chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended  the MPPI  to Mrs W, and it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time.  Mrs W has said she was in a very 
stable role. But the policy was designed  to provide protection against the unexpected. 
And whilst Ive carefully considered what Mrs W has said about  her redundancy and sick 
pay entitlement, if Mrs W was unable to work or lost her job, the policy  couldve paid out 
for up to 12 months per claim  potentially for longer and in addition to any redundancy or 
sick pay Mrs W mightve received, at what couldve been quite a difficult time.  I appreciate  
Mrs W is dissatisfied because when she did lose her job due to redundancy, the policy 
didnt pay out  but I understand  this was because Mrs W received payment in lieu of 
notice until she found new employment.  MPPI typically doesnt pay out in these  
circumstances. But just because it didnt cover this particular instance of unemployment, 
it doesnt mean  it wouldnt have covered Mrs W in other  circumstances  for example, if 
her unemployment  extended  beyond the period in which  she received payment in lieu of 
notice, or if she was unable to work  due to accident or sickness. So I still think  the MPPI 
was a sensible  precaution. And I dont think I can say it was wrong  for Lloyds  to 
recommend it.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Mrs W about the MPPI  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs W chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the MPPI would have  
put Mrs W off taking  out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments. But for the reasons  explained  above,  these  
points dont change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN01694462my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0169446