K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about issues with a balance transfer  on his Sainsburys Bank Plc credit card. 
background
In early December 2018 Mr B applied for a Sainsburys  credit card. As part of the online 
application he requested a balance  transfer  from another credit card.
The credit card account was opened  near the end of December, after Mr B had returned  
some completed forms to Sainsburys. In February 2019  Mr B called Sainsburys to activate 
his card.  During  this call the initial balance transfer  was completed.  Mr B also requested  a 
second balance  transfer from another card. But Sainsburys asked to see a credit card 
statement to check that card was in Mr Bs name   which the bank wouldnt accept via email. 
Mr B made a complaint. He was unhappy  about how long the call took, and about having to 
send additional  information. He says the online application process didnt mention this, and it 
wasnt required for the first balance  transfer.  Mr B says if hed known about  this requirement 
he wouldnt  have applied for the card. 
Sainsburys felt the appropriate processes had been followed. But offered £10 to cover  the 
cost and inconvenience of Mr B having to post the documents to it. Mr B was unhappy with 
this so contacted  us. 
Our adjudicator thought that Sainsburys response  to the complaint was fair and reasonable. 
So, she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with this, so the complaint  has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys has provided evidence of the processes it has in place regarding  balance 
transfers. This involves  an electronic check, which seeks to verify that the card the balance  
transfer is being sent to is in the name  of the customer applying for the balance transfer. 
Where this cant be verified electronically,  Sainsburys requests a credit card statement be 
posted to them so they can verify this manually. 
Its up to Sainsburys to set its own processes in order to comply  with the rules and 
regulations it must follow. I understand the additional checks are intended  to prevent money 
laundering. I dont  think  the processes Sainsburys followed are unreasonable, although I 
appreciate it was inconvenient and frustrating for Mr B. 
Looking at the information provided during the online application process,  it confirms  that for 
balance transfers  the other card must be in the customers own name.  That all balance  
transfers are subject to Sainsburys  approval.  And that additional information may be 
required. It doesnt specify what that information  might be or that it would need to be posted.  
I dont think its unreasonable that Sainsburys didnt specify exactly  what  may be required 
during the online application process.  In most  cases no further information would be 
required, because  the electronic verification process  would be successful. I think Sainsburys 
Ref: DRN04781322requests of Mr B were fair and reasonable. I understand  it was inconvenient and frustrating 
for Mr B to post the documents  in. But I think Sainsburys  has done enough to acknowledge 
this and cover the costs  involved.
I understand that Mr B was recovering from a back operation  at the time.  So, this made  it 
more difficult for him to comply with Sainsburys requests.  But Mr B acknowledges that 
Sainsburys wasnt aware of this. Had Mr B told Sainsburys about his health issues,  it 
wouldve been able to consider whether  it could do anything  more to help, or to make things 
easier for him. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, including his suggestion that Sainsburys did 
something wrong and this reduced  the amount of time he could enjoy 0% interest on his 
balance transfer.  But I dont think Sainsburys has done anything wrong. I think  the 
procedures it followed were reasonable in the circumstances. And its offered  £10 to put 
things right, which I think is fair. So, I dont think it should do anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0478132