K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains about how esure Insurance Limited recorded a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy and the impact  this had on his insurance premium.
Background
Mr D made  a claim on his motor insurance policy after his car was hit while  unattended  in a 
car park. esure dealt  with Mr Ds claim, repaired the damage and recovered  its costs from 
the insurer of the car who hit Mr Ds.
Mr D found out that this claim  had been recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) when he looked to take out another policy with a different insurer  and was told hed 
not told it the truth about his and his wifes claims history. It said hed declared  a claim for 
himself, but not for his wife, but that CUE  showed  something different. Mr D was unhappy 
the named driver on the policy - his wife, Mrs D - was recorded as being the driver on CUE.  
He said this is untrue,  as the car was parked and had been for a number of hours.
Mr D complained to esure about  this. He said he wasnt told esure would record any of his or 
Mrs Ds data on CUE, nor did he give it permission to do so. And he said the data its 
recording is inaccurate.
esure said it was recording data on CUE correctly, as confirmed by the Motor Insurance  
Bureau (MIB). It said it was doing nothing wrong by recording Mrs D as the driver of the car, 
as she was the last person to use it.
Mr D remained  unhappy and after making  further  complaints  to other  organisations, esure 
changed the name of the driver associated with this incident on CUE  to Mr D.
Mr D complained about this. He said while he was happy Mrs D wasnt  recorded as the 
driver any more, he was unhappy  he was recorded as the driver. He said hed not given 
esure permission to change the record on CUE,  and felt it was a breach of GDPR that esure  
made this change.
Mr D was also unhappy with the effect this claim had on his insurance premium.  And he 
doesnt think its fair hes penalised for being  hit while  his car was parked.
Our investigator looked in to Mr Ds complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  He 
thought esure made it clear in the policy that it would  share  Mr and Mrs Ds data with 
relevant parties.  And he thought esure  had acted fairly by recording Mrs D as the driver  
initially, and then changing it to Mr D. He looked  at how the policy was priced, and thought  
esure had explained the increase,  and rated  Mr Ds renewal in line with its underwriting 
criteria.
Mr D remained  unhappy and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes said the data 
being recorded is factually incorrect and doesnt think  its fair this is used to price  his policy.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN09439532Its worth  noting here that its not my role to decide  whether or not esure  has breached  
GDPR. My role is to look at how esure  has treated Mr D and whether I think  its treated  him 
fairly or not in the circumstances of this complaint. In determining  this, Ive taken into 
account the relevant laws and regulations, but Im not bound by them.
Mr Ds policy  says esure will share his data with the operators of claims related databases  
and Im satisfied the Motor Insurance Bureau  (MIB)  who operate  the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) - is covered by this. The policy  doesnt specifically name 
either CUE or MIB, but most motor insurers in the UK record  details about claims such as 
the cost theyve paid and who the diver of the car was on CUE. Im not persuaded Mr D 
would have taken  any different action had either CUE or MIB been named in the policy.  It 
follows that Im satisfied esure can report data about any claims on Mr Ds policy on CUE.
Ive considered whether its fair for esure to record that first Mrs D, then Mr D was the driver 
associated with this claim.  I understand Mr D feels very strongly  about  this, and Im in 
complete agreement with him that neither he nor Mrs D were  driving  the car at the time of 
the incident. But I dont think esure are acting unfairly by recording either of them as the 
driver on CUE. The entry on CUE clearly explains the car was parked at the time of the 
incident so any insurer wanting to take that into consideration, has the option to do so. 
CUE is used to record data about a claim. It includes  what  was paid by the insurer, whether 
the bonus is allowed, and details about the claim, including  who was the driver at the time.  I 
understand Mr D thinks this should be left blank, as no one was the driver.  But this is 
essentially recording who is associated with the claim.
I think it was reasonable  of esure  to record this as Mrs D, as she was the last person to drive 
the car. Ive seen  an email from MIB confirming esure were acting in line with its guidance 
when doing this. And Ive also seen this guidance confirming if the car was unattended  this 
field should be filled with the last person in charge of the car. This field of entry doesnt allow 
free text, so esure couldnt enter  no driver. There are a number of options to choose from 
depending who is on the policy, one of which is driver not known. But the guidance is this 
should be used  in those circumstances when  the driver of the car isnt known, not when the 
vehicle was unattended.  I understand  Mr D isnt happy with this guidance, but that doesnt 
mean esure were acting  unfairly by following  it.
Ive considered whether esure  should have changed  the name of the last person to use the 
car on CUE  from Mrs D to Mr D. Mr D has said it did this without him asking them to, and 
that he only found out it had done so from his new insurer. But Ive listened to a call between 
Mr D and esure. During the call esure say they can change  the name on the claim to Mr D to 
try help him resolve any issues with his new insurer and Mr D seems to agree to this.
Strictly speaking, Im not sure this is something esure should have done. Its not for esure to 
control or name the fields of entry  CUE requires it to fill in. But it is responsible for filling  them 
in correctly, in line with the rest of the industry.  By changing the name of who drove the car, 
its not strictly followed the guidance from CUE.  That said,  esure said it checked it could do 
this with CUE before doing  so. And Im satisfied esure made  this change in an attempt to 
help its customers,  Mr D and his wife.
esure has said it can change the name on CUE  back  to Mrs D. But after speaking  with Mr D 
hes said hed rather keep  it recorded  with him being  the driver.  Ive considered whether to 
recommend esure change  the name on the claim back  to Mrs D anyway, but Im not going to 
Ref: DRN09439533here. As mentioned above  the change was an attempt to help Mr D and his wife. His new 
policy with another  insurer  is already set up and running, so changing the driver on the claim 
in question back to Mrs D would likely  cause  more issues than it would resolve.
Mr D is unhappy that as a result  of this claim his insurance premium has increased.  And I 
can understand why. His car was parked, so I can see why he feels hes being penalised by 
making a claim.
Insurers can choose what information to consider when setting the price of a policy.  This 
price, or premium,  is based on the risk an insurer wants  to take. The factors considered, and 
the weight placed on these factors is the insurers choice. Its not my role, nor is it the role of 
this service, to say what factors an insurer needs to take into consideration. Nor is it for us to 
question the weight it places on these factors. All this is commercially  sensitive information 
and allows  competition  in the market.
But I do need to make sure esure have treated Mr D fairly, in line with its underwriting 
criteria. So I need  to be sure esure have treated him the same as it would have  done  any 
other customer with the same circumstances. And Im satisfied it has. Ive seen the 
information esure used  in the form of its underwriting criteria, and Ive seen some  of the 
statistics behind that criteria.
Ive looked too at the difference between Mr Ds renewal quote and the price he paid for the 
previous year. And Im satisfied esure rated  his policy  based  on the factors it considers, 
including his claims history,  and rated  him correctly in line with its underwriting criteria.
Im aware Mr D didnt renew with esure,  as his new insurer  offered him a much  more 
favourable premium. But this further  highlights the competition in the market. It doesnt  mean  
esures renewal premium was unfair. I cant be sure what information or factors  Mr Ds new 
insurers took into account. But Im satisfied esure has treated  him fairly by recording the 
claim as it has on CUE and then pricing his policy based on this and other factors, in line 
with its underwriting  criteria.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0943953