K821x#15complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with Barclays  Bank UK PLC because it failed to carry out her instruction to 
close her account.
background
Mrs H had a cash ISA and an investor account with Barclays. In June 2016  she asked to 
close both accounts,  but only one was closed in line her instructions. The investor account 
remained open. 
Mrs H said she only found out about  this because  she continued to receive statements and 
marketing literature. She raised this with Barclays again and was told the account  would be 
closed immanently, only she continued  to receive  correspondence about the account as it 
was still not closed correctly. Mrs H wants Barclays to close  her account  and pay her 
compensation. 
Barclays accepts it did this. And by way of apology offered her £50 compensation. But Mrs H 
did not accept  this because it was not the first time this had happened.  However  Barclays  
reassured her there was no data breach because it sent letters to her home  address.
Our investigator said Barclays should  increase  its offer to £200 as this fairly reflected the 
level of trouble and upset  caused. But Mrs H did not agree.  
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the £200 
compensation awarded by our investigator is fair. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that Barclays has made  a mistake here. It was asked  to close  Mrs Hs 
account back in June 2016  and did not actually do this until November 2018. Barclays  said it 
takes around 90 days for the account to fully close, allowing  plenty of time for any final 
interest or dividends due to be paid to Mrs H. But even after this period her account 
remained open. Because the account was not closed Mrs H continued to receive  statements 
and other  promotional literature.
Mrs H mentioned this had happened once  before  and that Barclays sent statements to her 
previous address. Whilst Im not considering  that occasion, I can see perhaps  why this would 
cause Mrs H some anxiety this time around.  But I should make clear I can only consider 
whats actually happened in the circumstances  of this complaint,  rather  than what happened  
previously, or what could  have potentially happened.
 
On this occasion, Barclays failed to act on her instruction to close her investor account. 
Whilst the account remained open,  I accept  it continued to send correspondence  to Mrs H, 
however, I note this was to her home address and not anywhere else. And so although  I 
agree this has caused her trouble and upset attempting to sort the issue. Ive not seen any 
evidence of Barclays sharing her personal information with anyone else. Its because  of this I 
believe the £200 compensation suggested by our investigator is fair as its in line with other  
awards made for similar  types of complaint. 
Ref: DRN05587622I should also highlight  that its not for this service to punish a business for making a mistake. 
Rather, where a mistake has been made, Id expect to see it put right  which in this case, it 
has. Ive considered the time it took to do this and the impact  its had on Mrs H and feel that 
compensation suggested by our investigators  is fair.  
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mrs H £200  for the level of trouble and upset caused by 
not closing her account after she had asked it to. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0558762