K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that he was mis-sold  a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  by 
Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays). 
background
Mr M bought  the PPI policy  in September 1998 when he took out a loan. Barclays said that 
the sale took place during a meeting and it advised  Mr M to take the policy. Mr M raised 
several complaint  points,  but in summary he said he was told hed have a better  chance  of 
getting the loan if he took the PPI, so he felt pressured, but the policy wasnt suitable  and he 
wasnt given enough  information about  it.
 
This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost (£55.03) was added  to the loan and was 
repayable, with interest, over the life of the loan. The policy  provided life, critical illness, 
accident and sickness and unemployment  cover  for Mr M. If hed made a successful claim, 
the policy wouldve  covered the loan repayments  for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough evidence  to say that Barclays mis-sold the 
policy. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Barclays couldnt give us a copy of Mr Ms loan agreement, which  is not surprising given that 
the loan was repaid over 19 years ago. But it was able to provide sample copies of an 
application form and a loan agreement that it said wouldve been used at the time. It also 
sent in computer records with details of Mr Ms loan account. 
Im satisfied that its reasonable to take these sample documents as representative of what  
wouldve been used  for Mr Ms loan.  On the application form there  are two tick boxes for the 
applicant to say whether  or not they wanted PPI. And on the loan agreement  there  are 
spaces for the cost of the PPI to be included, broken down into the premium, interest 
chargeable, total cost and monthly  payment. 
I accept that, as the sale took place in a meeting, I cant know how the adviser explained  the 
PPI. I also accept that Mr M didnt have  to sign separately for the PPI. But overall,  I think Mr 
M couldve  chosen  which  box to tick on the application form. And from what  I can see, the 
cost of the PPI wouldve  been shown separately  on the loan agreement, so I think  Mr M 
wouldve understood what he was agreeing to take out. So on balance I think its most likely 
that Mr M was given a choice about the PPI, and that he decided  to take it. 
Ive thought about what Mr M said about feeling pressured  to take the PPI. But I also note 
that Barclays advised him to take the policy. So its possible  that what  Mr M remembers as 
the suggestion that he must take the policy so as to get the loan might  have been the 
recommendation that he should have it. From  the limited evidence  I have theres  simply not 
Ref: DRN04236182enough for me to conclude its more likely than not that pressure was exerted on Mr M to 
take the PPI. 
Because Barclays recommended the PPI for Mr M, the adviser shouldve made sure that the 
policy was suitable  for him. On balance, I think it was.
Mr M said he was employed and in good  health at the time of the sale, and I cant see that 
he wouldve been  affected by any of the main exclusions  in the policy.  Mr M also said that he 
was entitled to sick pay from his employer of six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay. He also said he had some savings and couldve  relied  on his partner to help out. But 
their circumstances couldve  changed, so I dont think their help couldve been guaranteed.  I 
think Mr M couldve found it difficult  to make the loan repayments once his sick pay reduced 
or if he lost his job. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit.
Ive also looked  at the cost of the policy, and Im satisfied that the potential  benefit 
reasonably exceeded the cost. I dont think Mr M wouldve  received a proportionate refund of 
the premium if hed repaid the loan early, but I have no evidence  to suggest that he planned 
to do this at the time of the sale. 
Ive also looked  at what information  Mr M might have been given about the policy. I have a 
copy of the policy summary, although I cant know when in the sales  process  Mr M might 
have received this. But as Ive said, I dont think he wouldve been affected  by any of the 
things not covered. And I think its most likely that the cost was adequately  explained.
Overall, I dont  have enough evidence to say that Barclays mis-sold the policy to Mr M. 
Although I cant say whether Barclays fully explained the policy terms, Im not satisfied that 
Mr M wouldve acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. The policy  couldve  
provided useful  cover  if Mr M couldnt work.  This means Mr M is not worse  off as a result of 
what Barclays may have done  wrong, so theres nothing  it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0423618