K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the decline of a claim  made  under his travel  insurance policy  with 
Jade Stanley Ltd (Jade Stanley). 
background
While abroad, Mr D was unable to get his connecting flight to the departure airport  for his 
final journey back  to the UK. This was due to severe weather conditions. He used a 
helicopter to get to the departure airport in time for his return flight to the UK. Upon his return 
he made a claim under  his policy for the cost of the helicopter. This claim was declined by 
Jade Stanley as it considered the claim to be excluded from cover.  Mr D was unhappy with 
this so brought his complaint to this service  for consideration. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and thought  that the Jade Stanley should 
cover the cost. They agreed that the helicopter cost would not be covered under  the policy, 
but applied a fair and reasonable approach. They believed the actions taken by Mr D 
ultimately prevented  him from missing his flight to the UK, therefore preventing a claim under 
his policy  for this cost.  Jade Stanley  did not agree. The matter has therefore been passed to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding  the case and will explain why. 
Mr D claimed  for the cost he incurred for the helicopter he used in order to make his return  
flight to the UK. I accept  this is something which  is not covered under the policy,  as the use 
of a helicopter would  only be covered if it was for medical purposes,  which  in this case  it 
wasnt.
However, had Mr D not taken the helicopter, he would have missed his flight back  to the UK. 
This would have been covered under the policy as the terms and conditions state:
Section I - Missed Departure
What is covered
If You are unable to reach the point  of departure of Your pre-booked travel itinerary on the
initial outward  or final return journey as a consequence of:
1. the failure of other  Public Transport or
4. strike, industrial action  or adverse weather conditions or
Mr D would have been unable to reach his departure point due to failed public transport (the 
policy includes publicly licensed aircraft as public  transport, and the flight was possibly  
covered under that), as well as weather conditions. So under one or both of these Mr D 
would have had a valid claim for missed departure. As taking the helicopter  mitigated this 
loss and avoided  what looks  like a more costly claim to Jade Stanley I think  the underlying 
ombudsman principle of fair and reasonable should apply. 
Obviously if the helicopter cost exceeded the prospective cost of the missed  departure I 
would limit the recovery to the smaller amount.  But that doesnt seem to be the case  here. 
Ref: DRN04162212Nor have  I seen put forward evidence that the departure  flight wouldnt have been missed  by 
any means other than the helicopter. 
The cost for the missed  connecting flight is not something the policy provides cover for, nor 
is Mr D claiming  for this.
Looking at redress, I think it would  be reasonable for Jade Stanley to pay Mr D up to the cost 
he incurred for the helicopter. It should deduct any refunds Mr D may have received for the 
cancelled connecting  flight, as this is a cost Mr D would have incurred in any case.  It should  
also deduct any applicable excess. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Jade Stanley Ltd should pay Mr D up to the cost Mr D incurred for the helicopter. Deducting 
any applicable  excess and refund  Mr D may have received for the cancelled  connecting 
flight. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0416221