K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999 by post.  Mr M says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to Make Mr M aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding 
the policy to his card. Barclays has provided a copy of Mr Ms credit  card application form. 
The option  to take PPI has been selected  and the form has been  signed by Mr M in 
agreement with the selections that have been  made.  With this in mind I think  Barclays made 
it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why he may not remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had to 
make his repayments which included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer. It would also have protected Mr Ms savings so 
they could be used towards  any other  expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN04661702
Ref: DRN0466170