K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complained that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
background
Mrs C bought the policy in June 1995 when she took out a Marks & Spencer  chargecard. 
Allianz said that Mrs C filled in an application form for the card and PPI and that she wasnt 
advised to take the cover.  Mrs C said she didnt  ask for the PPI and in any case  thought she 
wouldnt have been able to claim on it.
The policy cost 64p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs C had successfully claimed  on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 15% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work  until, if necessary, the balance was cleared.  It also 
provided life cover.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs C wasnt eligible for the PPI so wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim. So she upheld the complaint. Allianz didnt agree and asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Allianz sent us a copy of Mrs Cs chargecard application form. This shows  that a box was 
ticked on the form to say that she wanted PPI, although she didnt have  to sign separately  
for it. Mrs Cs name and date of birth were also filled in, to confirm she was the person to be 
insured.
However, Mrs C told us that that at the time of the sale she was working part time  and less 
than 16 hours per week. This means that she wouldnt have been eligible for the cover, and 
wouldnt have been able to make a claim.  The employment details Mrs C gave us match 
those on the chargecard application  form  and I can also see that, on the form, theres a 
box ticked to show that Mrs Cs gross  annual income was less than £5,000 . 
Allianz argued that the PPI section  of the application  form clearly stated the requirement  to 
be working more than 16 hours a week to be eligible for the cover. And Mrs Cs salary  level 
wasnt necessarily indicative of her working fewer  than 16 hours  per week  given the time 
period and the nature of her employment.  
Ive given careful consideration to what Allianz  said. However, the relevant wording  is in 
quite small print, and isnt especially  prominent. Ive also taken into account  that Mrs C said 
that, to the best of her knowledge, the sale took place during a meeting  so most likely  in-
store. I can see that theres a store name and code on the form, so I think  thats right. I think 
Mrs C could quite possibly have  overlooked  some  of the small print  on the form while  it was 
being filled in in the store.
Ref: DRN06754582Ive also thought about Mrs Cs salary  level.  I accept that the nature of Mrs Cs employment 
at the time meant she was unlikely to be highly paid. Nonetheless, the salary level is 
consistent with part time work, and Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs C has told us. 
Taking all this into account I consider it more likely that not that Mrs C was working for fewer 
than 16 hours per week at the time of the PPI sale. So I dont think she was eligible for the 
cover and therefore would not have been  able to benefit from the PPI policy. This means  
Mrs C has lost out so Allianz  needs  to put things right.
fair compensation
Allianz should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Allianz should find out how much  Mrs C would  have owed when she closed her charge 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Allianz should then refund  the difference between what Mrs C owed when  she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Allianz can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, Allianz can take off any refund Mrs 
C has already received  for the commission part of the PPI premiums, so that she does 
not get refunded for the same costs  twice.
B.Allianz should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Allianz works  out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Allianz should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs C wouldve owed Allianz  something on her charge card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Allianz should tell Mrs C what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Allianz to take off tax from this interest. Allianz  must  give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN06754583my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Allianz Insurance 
plc should pay her the compensation Ive described.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0675458