K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) continued to pursue her for 
a debt, and defaulted her account, after shed declared bankruptcy.
background 
Miss K banked with Halifax  and had an account with an overdraft facility. She was declared 
bankrupt in June 2018, and the bankruptcy order included her overdraft debt with Halifax.
However, Halifax said it was unaware  of the bankruptcy until the following year.
Miss K said she expected  that the Accountant in Bankruptcy (AIB) of Scotlands Insolvency
Service had informed all of the relevant creditors of her bankruptcy, including  Halifax. The
AIB confirmed it wrote to all of Miss Ks creditors on 4 June 2018. However, the AIB said it 
had recorded  another  business as acting on behalf of Halifax,  so it sent the bankruptcy 
documents there. Halifax said it didnt receive the notice of bankruptcy,  and said the other 
business wasnt acting  on its behalf.
Halifax followed its usual process in regard to Miss Ks outstanding account. It sent letters  
requesting payment of the overdraft  balance and issued warnings that the account could 
default. The account was defaulted in January 2019, and the debt was passed on to a third 
party who began contacting Miss K for payment.
When Miss K contacted  Halifax  about the requests for payment, it said it hadnt  received any 
bankruptcy documents, and asked  Miss K to contact its specialist team.
Halifax said it didnt receive  the bankruptcy order until April 2019, when it was sent by
Miss Ks Financial  Advisor.  After  receiving the bankruptcy documents, Halifax  wrote off the 
debt and Miss K was no longer  pursued for payments.
Miss K complained to Halifax about the default issued  against her in January 2019. She said 
she was declared  bankrupt seven months prior to this, and the bankruptcy  included  the 
same debt. She was also unhappy that Halifax, and later a debt collection agency,  had 
continued to pursue her for the debt. Halifax said it didnt have a record  of receiving the 
bankruptcy documents at the time, so hadnt made an error.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said: 
Its clear to me from the evidence provided that Halifax wasnt  sent the bankruptcy  
documents until April 2019.  Although Miss K informed Halifax  of the bankruptcy earlier  by 
phone, this wasnt enough for Halifax to take action. Halifax needed  to see the bankruptcy  
order so it could check that the overdraft  debt was included  this is something which its 
entitled to do.
Halifax issued a default against  Miss K in January  2019, and passed her details to a third 
party debt collection agency.  As Halifax didnt receive the bankruptcy order until April 2019,  
I dont think its unreasonable that it pursued Miss K for payment of the overdraft, and 
defaulted her account after the order had been  issued.
Ref: DRN02799642I know that Miss K was unhappy  to receive  contact about repaying the debt,  but I cant see 
that Halifax has done anything wrong here,  as it hadnt received  the bankruptcy  documents  
at the time.
However, I agree with Miss K thats its unfair for her to have a default showing on her credit 
file in January  2019, for a debt covered in the bankruptcy declared seven months earlier. It 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask Halifax to remove the credit file entry  completely, as the 
account was defaulted and this should be reflected. But, the date of the default should be 
corrected so that it doesnt remain  on Miss Ks credit  file for longer than necessary.
To put things right, Halifax  should amend the date of the default entry it recorded against
Miss Ks credit file to 4 June 2018   the date the bankruptcy order  was issued.
response to my provisional  decision 
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision  and had nothing further to add. Miss K accepted 
the decision and said she wanted her credit  file updated straight  away.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt anything more  for me to consider as neither party  has provided any new 
information or comments. My final decision therefore remains  as outlined in my provisional  
decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  to make the 
relevant updates to Miss Ks credit file to reflect that the account defaulted on 4 June 2018. 
And it should do this as soon as possible.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0279964