K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr C and Ms C took out secured personal loans with Halifax  in 1998,  2000 and 2003. A PPI 
policy was added to their account  for each loan at the time it was taken out. They paid a 
monthly amount  for the policies which wouldve covered their loan repayments  for up to 12 
months if Mr C lost his job and for up to 60 months  if he couldnt  work  because of sickness 
or an accident.
Mr C and Ms C say they werent aware they had PPI on their loans. Mr C says he signed 
where he was asked to sign and nothing  was explained to him. Mr C and Ms C say they had 
family support and so didnt need  the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr C and Ms Cs complaint didnt uphold it. They disagree 
and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Ms Cs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
I think its likely Halifax made Mr C and Ms C aware each PPI policy was optional and they 
agreed to each knowing they didnt  have to. I say this because  Ive looked at the two 
personal loan application forms Mr C and Ms C signed  in relation to the 1998 and 2003 
loans. I can see Mr C signed separately to say he wanted PPI for each of these loans  and 
the form had an equally clear No option if he and Ms C didnt want the cover.
Ive also looked  at the final loan agreements Mr C and Ms C signed  for all three loans. On 
each agreement there were Yes and No options  next to the question:  Do you want  
Personal Loan Repayments Insurance ?. The Yes  option has been typed with a cross in 
each case. The whole  of each agreement, including the X saying Yes to PPI, has been  
pre-populated. But I think its likely to reflect discussions  Mr C and Ms C had on each 
occasion with Halifax. And I would have  expected  them to read the agreements  which 
included their agreement  to take out the loans  carefully and to query anything that wasnt 
right. Ive seen nothing  to suggest they did this in relation to the PPI policies, which are 
clearly being taken out in addition to the loans.
Ref: DRN06517432Halifax says it recommended the PPI policies to Mr C and Ms C so it had to make sure it 
was right for them. From what they say of their circumstances  at the time and the policy 
details Halifax has given  us, I think it was. I say this because:
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr C wasnt eligible for each PPI policy. 
Nor have I seen anything  to make me think  he wouldve  been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policies didnt cover, for example any unusual  employment terms or 
known medical conditions. So I think its unlikely there was anything to stop him 
claiming on the PPI if hed needed to.
Mr C says he cant remember what  his sick pay was at the time he and Ms C took out 
the PPI but he couldve relied on his family for support.  The PPI wouldve covered  
Mr C and Ms Cs loan repayments  for up to 12 months if Mr C lost his job and for up 
to 60 months if he had an accident  or became too ill to work. And this wouldve been  
in addition to any sick pay he got. So I think the PPI policies  gave Mr C and Ms C 
useful protection. And although Im sure Mr Cs family wouldve helped if it could, this 
isnt the same  as having an insurance policy to fall back on, because  this kind of help 
cant be guaranteed. So this doesnt  change my conclusions on this point.
The cost of the policy was shown on each  of the loan agreements. So I think            
Mr C and Ms C wouldve understood how much  theyd need to pay for it. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think the cover was unaffordable  for them.  
As well as making sure the policies were  right for Mr C and Ms C, Halifax also had to give 
them enough clear  information about each policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy 
them. Its possible some  of the information  Halifax gave Mr C and Ms C wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the reasons Ive given above about why I think  the policies were right 
for them, I dont think clearer information (if it had been needed)  wouldve  stopped                 
Mr C and Ms C buying them. 
I dont think Mr C and Ms C have lost out because of anything  Halifax  may have  done  wrong,  
so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr C and Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0651743