K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the time taken by Al Rayan Bank PLC to process his mortgage  
application. The interest rate on his existing mortgage increased during the application 
process and he asks that Al Rayan Bank pays compensation  for his financial loss.
background
Mr Ms mortgage product  with another provider was due to end in early  July 2018. He 
contacted Al Rayan  Bank in April 2018 about  re-mortgaging. Mr M says he was told by Al 
Rayan Bank  that April was too early to start the process to re-mortgage  in July. He says the 
application process was overly  time-consuming.  Mr M says he didnt receive  a mortgage 
offer until 7 August 2018  and that was for the wrong amount. 
Mr M says by this time his existing mortgage  had gone onto the lenders standard  variable 
rate, which was double  the rate hed been  paying.  He says Al Rayans  Banks credit search 
affected his credit score, reducing  his chances  of getting an offer elsewhere. And after the 
Bank of England  increased interest  rates in early August 2018 the deals available  werent as 
good. 
Mr M said after receiving  the offer letter and final response from Al Rayan Bank in August 
2018 he decided  not to proceed.  He was too unhappy with the service hed received. He 
took mortgage advice and re-mortgaged  with another provider. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said there wasnt  
an unreasonable delay in starting the application  process and the amount of time Mr M spent 
liaising with Al Rayan  Bank wasnt unreasonable. The investigator  said Al Rayan Bank was 
entitled to ask for information to assess Mr Ms circumstances and whether the amount he 
wanted to borrow  was affordable. Al Rayan  Bank  accepted there  was a delay in issuing the 
offer and offered £50 compensation, which the investigator said was fair.
The investigator said as Mr M had obtained a mortgage elsewhere,  it wasnt  reasonable to 
say Al Rayan Bank was responsible for his additional interest costs.  Mr M didnt agree. He 
said he had losses of £1,000 due to Al Rayan Banks  delays. 
my provisional decision
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations. So I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties,  in which I set out the following provisional findings:
what happened?
Mr M applied  to Al Rayan  Bank for a home purchase  plan (HPP). As this complaint is about 
delays in the application process, Ive set out the key dates.
24-28 April 2018 Mr M discusses HPP at his Al Rayan Bank branch.  He sends ID 
documents and mortgage statements
15 May 2018 Mr M attends an appointment with a mortgage adviser. A fact find and 
HPP application  are completed
Al Rayan  Bank issues agreement in principle for a HPP of £152,000
4 June 2018 Email from Al Rayan  Bank saying the valuation report  has been 
received. It says the application assessment can take 5 working  days
Ref: DRN0465650213 June 2018 Mr M makes a complaint  about the delays
3 July 2018 Mr Ms mortgage product  came to an end. His monthly payments 
increased from about £465 to about  £645
6 August 2018 Al Rayan  Bank issues HPP offer letter,  key facts and other documents. 
The offer is for £142,218
16 August 2018 Al Rayan  Bank sends  final response  to Mr Ms complaint. It 
acknowledges the delay and offers £50 compensation
1 October 2018 Mr Ms re-mortgage with another provider completes
did Al Rayan  Bank make  errors?
Mr M applied  to Al Rayan  Bank for an HPP. Al Rayan Bank was entitled to ask Mr M for 
information and documents  to help it assess Mr Ms application  including after its 
underwriters had reviewed the application. It was entitled to ask Mr M to attend  
appointments to discuss the application.  And it had to assess  whether the application  met its 
lending criteria and whether the amount Mr M wanted to borrow  was affordable. 
However, Al Rayan Bank accepts it caused  a delay. It had Mr Ms application and the 
valuation on 4 June  2018. Al Rayan Banks final response letter says that due to an 
operational delay, Mr Ms application wasnt reviewed  until 5 July 2018. Al Rayan Bank 
issued a mortgage offer on 6 August 2018.  If there  hadnt been a delay, I think  its likely 
Al Rayan  Bank would have issued a mortgage offer before the middle of July 2018. 
Al Rayan  Bank says it couldnt offer the amount  Mr M first requested as it didnt think  this 
was affordable. It said this was due to existing unsecured credit commitments.  Al Rayan 
Bank had to assess whether the loan was affordable. I dont think it made  an error when it 
said it couldnt lend the amount Mr M wanted. I think it was reasonable for Al Rayan Bank to 
do a credit search when  considering Mr Ms application. 
what should happen now?
Al Rayan  Bank offered  compensation of £50 for the inconvenience caused  by the delay. 
After the complaint came to us, Al Rayan Bank said it would  refund the difference between 
the rate Mr M was paying  to his current provider and the rate hed have  paid if hed 
transferred to Al Rayan Bank. If Mr M had taken out the HPP with Al Rayan Bank  I think this 
would have been a reasonable outcome. It would have put Mr M in the position he would 
have been in if hed received (and accepted) the offer of a HPP from Al Rayan Bank within  a 
reasonable timescale.
However, Mr M re-mortgaged  with another provider. So Ive considered whether Al Rayan 
Bank made errors which  caused  a delay  in Mr M re-mortgaging elsewhere. If it did, then it 
might be reasonable  for Al Rayan Bank  to compensate Mr M for any additional interest  costs  
due to the delay. Mr M also says he missed the opportunity  to apply to other providers 
before the Bank of England base rate increased on 2 August 2018. I asked Mr M to provide 
more information  about his application to the other  provider.
Having considered what happened  here, I dont think Mr M suffered a financial loss due to 
errors by Al Rayan  Bank.  Ive explained  why below.
Mr M applied  to Al Rayan  Bank for a mortgage. Al Rayan Bank was entitled to consider the 
application  and to take a reasonable amount of time to do so  and to decide whether and 
Ref: DRN04656503how much  it was prepared to lend. For the reasons Ive given, I think Al Rayan Bank  would 
have issued an offer by the middle  of July 2018  if it hadnt made any errors. 
So Mr M should have  known by mid July 2018 that Al Rayan Bank couldnt offer the amount 
he wanted to borrow and hed need  to apply elsewhere. However, Mr M says he made an 
application to another  lender in mid July 2018. So I dont think Al Rayan Banks error 
delayed him applying elsewhere.  It follows  that I dont think Al Rayan Banks error is 
responsible for the additional  interest Mr M paid before  his mortgage with a different lender 
completed or as a result of less favourable  mortgage products being available.  
Mr M found the mortgage application process overly time consuming. But I cant reasonably 
require Al Rayan Bank to pay compensation to Mr M for attending appointments and 
providing information as part of its normal application process. Al Rayan Bank offered £50 
for the delay  in sending out its mortgage  offer. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require  it to pay further compensation.
Mr M responded with more information  about  the application process and why he believes Al 
Rayan Bank  should  pay compensation. Al Rayan Bank didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said. Having done so, Im not persuaded to change  the 
outcome from my provisional decision.  Ive explained why below.
Al Rayan  Bank offered  less than Mr M applied for because  of a credit  card debt. Mr M says it 
would have offered  the full amount if hed repaid the debt. But he told Al Rayan Bank he 
wasnt prepared to do so as he was unhappy about  Al Rayan Banks  poor handling of his 
application. I do appreciate Mr M was unhappy  with the service from Al Rayan Bank, but I 
dont think I can reasonably say that Al Rayan  Bank  made an error when it offered the lower  
amount.
Mr M says his financial loss would have been  less if Al Rayan Bank had issued its offer in 
mid July 2018.  But by mid July 2018  Mr M had applied elsewhere.  So I cant see that the 
timing of his application to another provider would have been  different, even if Al Rayan 
Bank had issued its offer without unnecessary delays.
Mr M said Al Rayan Bank shouldnt have offered him a mortgage as hed bought the 
property with the help to buy scheme  and Al Rayan Bank isnt part of the scheme. The 
evidence he provided  was a list of banks  offering help to buy ISAs. I havent  seen  anything  
to suggest Al Rayan  Bank wasnt able to offer a help to buy HPP to Mr M.
Mr M also says there shouldnt be any significant  difference between  Al Rayan Banks  
application time scales and eligibility criteria and those of his current  provider as theyre  both 
subject to the same regulator. However,  banks  are entitled to make commercial  decisions 
about their lending criteria  and processes. I dont think  its reasonable  to say that Al Rayan 
Ref: DRN04656504Bank must have made an error simply because its processes and criteria are different from 
another provider.
Mr M says Al Rayan Bank  didnt respond  to his complaint within  the timescale required  by 
the regulator. However, complaint handling  isnt a regulated activity. So while  I sympathise 
with Mr Ms frustration, I cant look into this further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0465650