K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that equipment he acquired  using his Santander UK Plc credit card was 
faulty. He says that Santander has refused to accept his claim made under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75)
background
Mr B bought equipment from a shop on 5 February 2018 which he paid for using his 
Santander credit card.  He says the equipment worked at first but then stopped working 
properly. He went back to the shop but it had closed down and he discovered the retailer  
had stopped trading. He contacted Santander  raising a s.75 claim but it told him to contact 
the manufacturer for a repair.  
Mr B doesnt  want to contact the manufacturer. He wants the money  he paid for the 
equipment refunded.
Santander says that Mr B contacted it in July 2018  about the issues he had with his 
equipment and saying he wanted to raise a claim under s.75. It contacted the manufacturer 
and says the manufacturer asked for Mr B to contact it directly to discuss  a possible repair or 
replacement. It says that it told Mr B that if the manufacturer was unable to resolve the 
issues then it would  review its decision.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that in order  to say a breach of 
contract had occurred it needed  to be established that there  was a fault present at the point 
of supply. She said that Santander had contacted the manufacturer  to see if the equipment 
could be looked  at under  warranty and the manufacturer had asked  for Mr B to contact it 
directly to discuss the issue. She said that Santander had said that if the manufacturer was 
unable to assist  Mr B and resolve the issue with the equipment then he should contact it 
again. Our investigator thought this was reasonable
Mr B did not accept our investigators view. He said that the issue could be due to a number 
of faults including the wiring which he couldnt get access to at this point. He said the 
equipment was faulty and that Santander was liable. He said his claim was not with the 
manufacturer and given  his experience with their product he had no confidence in it. 
Mr B said he bought the equipment from a store rather than online so that if there were 
issues he could return it. He said our investigators view wasnt  reasonable and that given 
the amount of time taken  to deal with his complaint  the warranty  on the equipment  had run 
out.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its individual merits. I take into account  relevant regulations but my decision is based on 
what I consider fair and reasonable  given the unique  circumstances of the complaint.
Mr B has also mentioned his health issues and the impact  this has on his ability to deal with 
this issue. I appreciate how difficult this makes  things for Mr B and that dealing with this 
issue has caused him distress. However, to require Santander to refund Mr B the money  he 
spent I have to be satisfied that there  has been  a breach of contract  or misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN03442902In this case there is no suggestion of a misrepresentation and the issue is whether there has 
been a breach of contract because the equipment supplied was not of satisfactory quality. 
In order to say that the equipment was not of satisfactory quality it needs to be shown that 
the equipment  is faulty. Mr B has provided  some information about the issue he is 
experiencing with the equipment and has looked  online  to try to establish what  the cause of 
this is. While I do not doubt the issues  Mr B has experienced  I need to be able to safely 
conclude that the equipment is faulty and that the problem is not due to damage  or issues  
that have occurred since the equipment was supplied.
Because of this I find it reasonable  that Santander contacted the manufacturer to see if the 
equipment could be assessed.  The manufacturer asked for Mr B to contact it directly.  I can 
see that our investigator  also offered to make contact with the manufacturer on Mr Bs 
behalf.
I understand that Mr B does not want to contact the manufacturer. However without doing 
this, or providing other independent evidence to show a fault with the equipment,  I do not 
find that there is enough evidence to say that a breach of contract has occurred.
Santander has said that if the manufacturer  is unable to assist  Mr B it will review  his 
complaint. I find this reasonable. Mr B raised  his concerns within  six month of acquiring  the 
equipment and so if a fault is found it would be reasonable  to accept this was present from 
the point of supply unless  evidence was provided to show  this was not the case.
So, while I understand why Mr B is upset that Santander has not refunded  the money he 
spent on the equipment I find that it has tried to assist  Mr B by contacting  the manufacturer. I 
accept it is reasonable  for Santander to ask for information to confirm  the fault and that by 
making contact with manufacturer it has tried to do this. 
In the event the manufacturer does not resolve  the issue for Mr B, Santander has said it will 
review Mr Bs complaint.  Again I find this reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander has acted reasonably by asking Mr B to contact the 
manufacturer in order to establish the issue with the equipment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0344290