K820x#14Complaint
Mr P has complained that ReAssure Limited  mis-sold  an endowment policy  sold to his 
father, which was taken  out for his benefit. 
Background
In 1985, Mr Ps father,  who Ill call Mr H, took out a Flexible Endowment  Savings plan. He 
purchased the plan for the benefit  of Mr P, who would take ownership of the policy when  he 
reached the age of 21. The plan provided  a sum assured £16,152 payable at the end of the 
term when Mr P became  65. The plan provided life cover for Mr P and included a waiver of 
premium benefit.
Mr P surrendered the plan in October 2009  and received  £14,526.95.
In 2018 a claims management company  (CMC) complained on Mr Ps behalf  that the policy  
had been mis-sold. It said Mr P had no need  for any life cover  as he was only a year old at 
the time of sale.
ReAssure didnt uphold  the complaint. It said Mr Ps needs or circumstances at the time of 
the sale werent relevant because the plan was sold to Mr H based on his needs. It felt the 
policy was suitable  as a long-term  savings vehicle.
Unhappy with ReAssures  response, the CMC  referred Mr Ps complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the policy was sold to Mr H; so even 
though it was for Mr Ps benefit, his circumstances at the time of sale were irrelevant. He 
also explained that the inclusion of life cover meant that the policy was a qualifying  contract  
for tax purposes, which benefitted  Mr P.
The CMC didnt agree with the assessment. It maintained that Mr P didnt need life 
insurance and said the policy was too high risk as a savings vehicle. It said at the time of the 
sale the Bank of England base rate was around 12%, so a much  higher return couldve been  
achieved with a lower risk product.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Ive reviewed the paperwork provided  from the time of the sale and I am satisfied that whilst  
Mr H took out the policy, it was intended  for the benefit of his son, Mr P. However, it is 
Mr Hs needs and objectives that are relevant here,  not Mr Ps.
As the policy was sold before the introduction  of the Financial Services  Act (1986), there isnt 
a fact find, suitability  assessment or recommendation  letter.  So, there  isnt a lot of evidence 
from the time of sale about Mr Hs circumstances or what  he wanted to achieve.  That said,  
I think its fair to assume that Mr H was looking for a long-term savings vehicle that would 
benefit his son in the future.
Ref: DRN01944132Overall, I think the plan met with Mr Hs objective of providing some savings for his son in his 
future. The plan was designed to provide Mr P with a lump sum at age 65, but the plan could 
be surrendered  at any time after the first 10 years. Mr P in fact surrendered  the policy in 
2009, receiving  a lump  sum of £14,526.95. So, I think the plan achieved its objective of 
providing Mr P with some savings.
But its clear that the plan provided additional  benefits; life assurance and a waiver  of 
premium benefit. The CMC says that these additional benefits were unnecessary and that 
the product posed too high a risk as a savings vehicle. The CMC has also said that this was 
a very long plan and so the benefit  of it is almost worthless.
With regard to the life protection, I agree that Mr H wasnt dependent on the life of his child 
and that it made more  sense for Mr H to be the life assured  until the policy  transferred to 
Mr P. But this product  was specifically a childs flexible endowment  plan  the life assured 
had to be Mr P from the outset. And if Mr H had taken a plan that provided him with life cover  
instead, this wouldve cost him more leaving less money to be invested in the underlying 
funds. The plan also provided Mr P with relatively cheap life cover and premium protection  
that he could rely on as he got older  it seems to me that Mr H considered  this to be a 
valuable benefit  for Mr P at the time. Furthermore,  for endowment  savings plans the 
inclusion of life protection makes the policy qualifying for tax purposes which benefitted  Mr P 
when the plan was surrendered.
I accept that the term of the plan was very long. But it appears  Mr Hs objective was to 
provide a lump  sum of cash for Mr P at some point in the future.  It doesnt  appear that Mr P 
was relying on taking the money at a specific time,  and he could surrender the plan earlier 
than his 65th birthday if his circumstances changed.  So, I dont think this alone made the plan 
unsuitable.
Im also mindful that Mr H sought  specific advice about a long-term  savings plan. So, while  
the CMC  says Mr H couldve achieved a higher return putting the money in a low risk 
savings account,  it seems to me that Mr H was willing to take more  risk to achieve a higher 
rate of return over a longer period  of time.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr H wanted to take out a savings plan to benefit  Mr P in the future and 
I think this plan met with that objective.  
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0194413