K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Ts credit card agreement had a section  for additional products. There  was a box that 
could be ticked if he wanted  PPI, or which  could be left blank  if he didnt want  it. The box 
for PPI was ticked and Mr T signed the agreement.  Mr T didnt select all the additional 
products, so it looks like he wouldve known they were optional. The staff member 
wouldve had to discuss Mr T details to fill out the other sections of the form, so I think its 
most likely they discussed the PPI too. And Mr T later claimed  on the policy,  so he knew 
hed taken it out. Lastly, Ive not seen  any evidence which shows Halifax  misrepresented  
the policy as being compulsory or put Mr T under any unfair  pressure to take it out. So 
I think its most likely  that Halifax made  it clear  Mr T didnt have to take out PPI and that 
he chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check that the policy  was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover. While Mr T 
had some sick pay, the PPI covered him for far longer and paid out on top. And he 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  cover in case he lost his job. So the PPI couldve 
really been useful for Mr T if he fell on difficult times.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it looks  like he chose to take out the policy, which implies he wanted 
this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI, and it would have  been useful for Mr T if something  
went wrong. And the policy  ran on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr T could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. So overall, I dont think better information about  the PPI was likely 
to have put him off taking out the cover. 
Lastly, while Mr T did successfully claim on the PPI, he mentioned a different incident 
where his claim was turned down. In this complaint, Im only considering  whether the 
policy was mis-sold or not. But if Mr T feels that a claim  was unfairly turned down, he can 
make a separate complaint  to Halifax about  that, and can potentially  then bring it to our 
service as a separate case.  
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Ref: DRN09454972Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have  told Mr T about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0945497