K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, changed the trustee on two of 
his childrens savings  accounts. Hes also unhappy with the customer service  Halifax  
provided regarding  this.
Mr P is represented in this complaint by his wife, Mrs P. Most  of our contact has been with 
Mrs P, so to keep things  simple Ill refer mainly to her in my decision.  
background
Over the years Mr and Mrs P have opened various savings accounts for their children. Mrs P 
says she thought she was trustee for accounts  ending 3867 and 3461. But when she went 
into a Halifax branch in 2018, it told her that Mr P was in fact the trustee for these accounts, 
and not her. 
Mrs P says this is wrong and that Halifax must have incorrectly changed the trustee  to Mr P 
at some point without her approval. Therefore Mrs P was concerned shed been paying 
money into two accounts she didnt have control over,  and she didnt understand how shed 
been able to make withdrawals from these two accounts if she wasnt  the trustee.
Mrs P raised this with Halifax. She says the two Halifax branch  staff who first looked into it 
were rude and unhelpful, that a branch agent called her after shed said she no longer 
wanted to be contacted  by branch agents,  and a branch agent asked to speak to her ten 
year old daughter.
At around this time Mr and Mrs P decided  to visit branch to close all their childrens savings 
accounts. Two of these  accounts couldnt be closed at that visit because of the way theyd  
first been  set up, but were  closed later.
In its final response Halifax said Mrs P had never been the trustee  for the two accounts in 
question, but it accepted it shouldnt have allowed her to make withdrawals from these 
accounts and that it had given her poor customer service.  To put things right it offered to pay 
Mrs P £250  compensation for her distress and inconvenience, to cover  her reasonable costs 
once all the accounts had been closed, and to pay interest on the two accounts that couldnt 
be closed in branch.  
 
Mrs P decided not to accept the compensation Halifax  offered, and got in touch with our 
service. The investigator who looked into Mrs Ps complaint said she was satisfied Mr P had 
always been the trustee for these two accounts. And while  she thought  Halifax hadnt carried 
out sufficient checks  when allowing Mrs P to make withdrawals from these accounts,  she 
said this hadnt  caused any financial loss so compensation  wasnt warranted. The 
investigator went on to explain that she thought the £250 Halifax  had offered Mrs P for poor 
customer service  was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs P disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me. I spoke with Mrs P to let her 
know I thought  that, under  our rules,  her husband  was the eligible complainant  in this case, 
and because of this I couldnt  award any compensation  for any distress  or inconvenience 
she had suffered. I also said I didnt think Mr P had himself suffered distress or 
inconvenience and that I thought the £250  Halifax had offered was fair in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN07428072Mrs P disagreed, as she felt strongly  that she was in fact the trustee of the accounts in 
question and that Halifax had made a serious mistake.  So Ive gone on to issue  a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
what happened 
Ive seen that Mrs P was trustee for two savings accounts set up for her two daughters. Over 
the years  these accounts were closed and new accounts opened with new account 
numbers. This led to the opening of the two accounts in question,  3867 and 3461.  
Unfortunately the account opening  documents for these two accounts  are no longer 
available due to the time thats  passed.
Therefore Ive looked at the other account documents  both Mrs P and Halifax  have provided. 
I know Mrs P feels very strongly  that she was the trustee for these two accounts and that 
Halifax must have incorrectly changed the trustee  to Mr P. But unfortunately we dont know 
what has happened here, or why Mr P was made the trustee. Its possible Halifax did make  a 
mistake, as Mrs P was clearly a trustee  on previous accounts held in her daughters names.  
However, its also possible  that Mr P opened  new accounts for his daughters and rolled the 
old accounts into these.  Ultimately, Mrs P is not the trustee  for the two accounts in question.
who is eligible to bring this complaint
As Ive explained, Im satisfied Mrs P wasnt trustee for the two accounts  in question. This 
means that under the rules our service must  abide  by, called the DISP rules and set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys  Dispute  Resolution Handbook, Mrs P isnt the consumer in 
this particular case and so isnt eligible to bring  this complaint to us on her own behalf. 
Therefore I dont have  the power  to award  compensation to her in her own right or for any 
distress or inconvenience she has suffered herself.
However, Ive seen that Mr P was the trustee  of these  accounts. That means he is the 
consumer in this case and is therefore  eligible to bring this complaint to us. Mrs P has acted 
as his representative in this complaint, but Mr P remains  the only eligible complainant.
I understand that the crux of this complaint is that Mrs P should be the trustee for the two 
accounts in question. But as Ive explained,  I cant say whether Halifax  made a mistake 
about this. And I dont  think  I need to make  a finding  about  this. Thats  because  even if 
Halifax had made  a mistake regarding  the trustee, our approach would be to consider the 
impact that mistake had, in other  words  whether  it caused the consumer any financial loss, 
distress or inconvenience. And in this case, I dont think  there has been any financial loss, or 
inconvenience caused to Mr P, the eligible complainant. Ill explain why.
financial loss
Mrs P says there has been  a financial loss because the money  she paid into the two 
accounts for her children  wasnt in an account  under her control,  as shed thought.  And she 
was concerned about what could have happened to the money in the accounts if it wasnt  in 
her control. I can see the two accounts  in question  were  savings  accounts  operated  for the 
Ref: DRN07428073benefit of the children  and that thankfully nothing did happen to the money in this case. So I 
cant say theres been any financial loss here. 
distress and inconvenience
Mrs P says finding out she wasnt the trustee  was very distressing and she was put to a lot 
of inconvenience  in trying  to get to the bottom  of things,  because she had to make several 
calls and visits to branch. And she says she was given poor customer  service during this 
time, as the agents were rude, unhelpful,  called when shed asked not to speak to them, and 
also called  to speak  to her daughter. 
Mrs P has said that she did almost everything to operate these two accounts and to get to 
the bottom  of who was the trustee. And both Mr P and Mrs P have told us that Mr P hasnt 
suffered any distress as a result of this situation, and that he only had to visit branch once so 
that all the accounts could  be closed.  Therefore, I cant  say that Mr P, or the children  on 
whose behalf  the accounts were operated, have experienced any distress  or inconvenience. 
So it wouldnt be fair of me to award them any compensation.
I dont think Halifax should have allowed Mrs P to operate these accounts if she wasnt a 
trustee. Halifax itself accepts it should have further  checked who was trustee  when Mrs P 
withdrew funds from the accounts. But as Ive explained, Mr P hasnt suffered any distress 
and inconvenience.
Taking all this into account, I dont think the £250  Halifax has offered to Mrs P for her 
distress and inconvenience is unreasonable. Therefore I leave it to her to decide if this is 
something shed  like to accept.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Bank Of Scotland plcs offer is fair and I dont require it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0742807