K822xcomplaint
Miss T is unhappy with Towergate Underwriting Group Limited in relation to the 
Unoccupied Property Legal Expenses  Insurance (LEI) policy that they sold to her.
 
background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary here.
In May 2018  Miss T purchased an unoccupied property  insurance policy  through Towergate. 
As an add-on to the policy she also purchased insurance against  certain  legal expenses  
(LEI). Towergate say that whilst they made a recommendation for the main  policy,  the add-
on was sold on a non-advised  basis and the cost (for the LEI) prior to insurance  premium tax 
was £19.53 for six months cover.
Later in 2018  Miss T wanted to make a claim. The claim was declined  by the insurer  on the 
basis of the policy not covering the legal action she wished to take. 
It came to light that her policy schedule  had shown than the LEI provided cover  for 
consumer infringement.  This was an error that Towergate accept  shouldnt  have happened.  
The insurer  behind the cover had changed the title of that section of cover to property 
infringement and Towergate hadnt updated  the schedule. But Towergate  pointed out that 
the cover  was identical  it was only the heading  that had changed.
Miss T complained. She was unhappy that she was given  incorrect  information. She says 
she wouldnt  have purchased the policy had she known  it didnt cover  her in the way she 
thought. She also says Towergate gave poor customer  service by failing to send  out correct  
policy information on numerous occasions. 
Towergate accepted the policy  schedule was incorrect and apologised.  But they didnt think 
the error  on the schedule impacted on the claim being declined.  Being unhappy  with this 
response, Miss T referred her complaint to our service. 
One our investigators  thought it should be upheld in part. She didnt agree the policy had 
been mis-sold. But she did think Towergate had caused some confusion  and inconvenience 
and that £50 should be paid to compensate for this. Towergate accepted that outcome. 
Miss T didnt accept our investigators view and so has asked for an ombudsman  to review  
her complaint. Before  issuing this decision, I shared some additional reasoning with Miss T 
and gave an opportunity for her to make further comments. Now Ive done that, I can go 
ahead with my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still agree with our 
investigators outcome.  I know this will be disappointing for Miss T, so let me explain  why.
Ref: DRN05948302Im satisfied that the legal  expenses insurance  add-on that Towergate sold to Miss T, was 
sold on a non-advised basis. This means it was Miss Ts responsibility to make  sure the 
insurance was suitable  for her needs.  But Towergate still needed to provide information in a 
clear, fair and not-misleading way to enable Miss T to make  an informed decision. 
Ive listened to the call during which Miss T bought  the insurance.  The call handler  provided 
an overview of the LEI cover provided  and said that full details can be found in the policy 
documents. Beyond this Towergate wrote to Miss T on 16 May 2018 after shed bought  the 
insurance. In relation  to the LEI cover  their letter said:
Were pleased to be able to offer you the following optional additional cover(s) to 
supplement your main  policy. We have  not made a recommendation in respect of these 
optional additional  cover(s); instead  we have provided you with information to enable you to 
decide whether  it is suitable for your needs.  For more information about the full terms, 
exclusion and conditions  applicable we recommend that you read the enclosed  policy  
wording(s) and policy  summary(ies).
Miss T says the policy wording wasnt included. Towergate say it is included as standard.  
But even if it wasnt, I think the above  makes clear  that it should have been. So if it wasnt 
enclosed, Miss T had an opportunity to request this and to check the policy was suitable for 
her against  the policy wording, which is where the full details of cover and any exclusions 
would be found.  
Miss T says that enclosed policy wording(s) and policy summary(ies)  is to too generic and 
she didnt know information was missing, otherwise shed have requested  it. Ive thought  
about this, but in the circumstances of the sale of this policy;  It was for Miss T to satisfy 
herself that the policy she bought, included the cover she needed. So if this wasnt apparent 
from the information she received she ought  to have raised  this with Towergate. Particularly 
as the first page  of the letter invites her to get in touch if she has any questions about her 
policy / cover.
Also within the information sent on 16 May 2018 was the policy schedule. Its accepted that 
this incorrectly shows a head of cover  for consumer infringement when it should have said 
property infringement.  But as Ive touched on above, a policy schedule will only ever 
provide a brief overview of the cover. The policy wording is where the full details are typically 
found. And having reviewed the underlying policy wordings, the cover under either of those 
headings was identical. I dont think Towergates error here impacted on the insurers  
decision in relation to the claim.  This is because it was merely the heading  that was different, 
not the actual  terms of the insurance  the policy provided. 
So overall, I dont  think Towergate failed to provide  Miss T with sufficient information in a 
suitable format  to make an informed  choice about her LEI insurance. So, I dont  agree that 
the policy was mis-sold.  
But I accept that the incorrect  information  on the policy  schedule  caused some confusion  
and represented  poor service.  I also accept what Miss T says with regard to having issues in 
receiving a duplicate  copy of the policy wording  from Towergate. But I think  the £50 our 
investigator recommended is fair compensation in these circumstances. And I dont think 
Towergate need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
Ref: DRN05948303my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Unless theyve already done so, Towergate  Underwriting  Group Limited must pay Miss T 
£50 compensation  for the material  trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0594830