K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the charges for damage Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (HC)  is requiring 
him to pay following the end of his car finance agreement.
background
Mr H says HC charged him £650.17 for various items of damage when he returned  his car 
early after 18 months  and after covering 35,000 miles in it. He says he took every 
reasonable care with the car. He says the day before it was collected, he cleaned it top to 
toe and it looked immaculate. And he says he now knows the people who come to check 
cars out when they are returned are trying to find as many faults as possible  to maximise 
their profits.
Mr H also says the only fault he acknowledges as valid is damage to the passenger side 
front wheel, for which  HCs charged  him £65. He says he feels  most aggrieved about a 
charge of £286.17 for a hole in the carpet on the clutch rest. He says the car was used in a 
normal way to train new drivers  and the carpet wore out as part of this, so it was clearly not 
fit for purpose.  He says it isnt possible  to use the clutch pedal in any other way. And he says 
he was told the carpet  was covered  by the manufacturers warranty,  but because he hadnt 
notified them  before  he returned  the car, he would be charged for it.
HC says its end of contract  process and assessment of damage  is linked  to fair wear and 
tear standards laid down by an organisation thats widely recognised  in the vehicle industry. 
It says these standards are advised  to its customers as part of their contract  terms. And it 
says prior to the collection  of Mr Hs car an independent inspection was completed by an 
inspector fully trained to these standards.  
HC also says the report of this inspection is then used to calculate  the charges  for vehicle 
condition that fall outside the defined wear and tear standard. It says the entire process is 
designed to ensure it applies  a consistent approach and treats customers fairly,  with the 
option of independent  arbitration. And it says following Mr Hs complaint it reviewed the 
damage charges  and removed some items, reducing the total amount charged  to £490.17. 
In addition, HC says the organisation its referred  to advises that if you discover what you 
believe to be a manufacturers fault, you should alert the leasing company as soon  as 
possible to get the issue resolved. It says if Mr H had reported  the hole in the carpet to it 
during the life of the contract, it wouldve  had the opportunity  to book the car into a main 
dealer for investigation and if found to be a warranty matter, rectified at that stage. And it 
says as Mr H didnt  do this, it lost the opportunity  to challenge the manufacturer  to see if 
there was a valid claim under the warranty and this is the reason for the charge for this item 
of damage.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. He said he understands about the 
damage to the wheels  and paintwork. But he said the sticking point for him is the carpet  he 
cant accept that he should be expected to pay for a warranty item. 
Mr H also said he believes the damage to the carpet was fair wear and tear. He said he used 
the car for 35,000 miles. He said if the carpets  not robust enough  to withstand 18 months  of 
Ref: DRN01767322use, then the faults with it. And he said it isnt as though the learner driver uses the clutch  
pedal any differently  to a qualified driver.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the photos of the various items that HC says amount to chargeable damage to 
Mr Hs car and its requiring him to pay for. Ive paid particularly close attention  to the carpet 
damage for which HCs charged him nearly £290,  as Im aware  this is the item Mr H is 
especially unhappy about.
And Im satisfied the scratches to the paintwork and windscreen, the alloy wheel scuffs  and 
the hole in the carpet  all  fall outside the definition of fair wear and tear, according to the 
industry standard guidelines applicable to Mr Hs finance agreement. So, I think  its fair for 
HC to require him to pay these charges.
Ive noted Mr Hs argument that the carpet wouldve been covered under warranty  if hed 
reported it when  the car was in his possession. But I havent seen any information confirming 
that it would  most likely have been treated as a warranty  repair in these circumstances. And 
Ive also taken into account HCs response that if Mr H had reported the hole in the carpet to 
it during the life of the contract, it wouldve  had the opportunity  to book the car into a main 
dealer for investigation and if found to be a warranty matter, rectified at that stage. And that 
as Mr H didnt do this it lost the opportunity to challenge the manufacturer to see if there  was 
a valid claim under the warranty. 
So, in these circumstances,  I dont have enough information  to uphold this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint.
I see HC reconsidered and removed some of the charges after Mr H complained  about  the 
matter. And the total charges its now requiring him to pay have been reduced  from around 
£650 to around  £490. I think this was reasonable and I dont think  it would be fair for me to 
require HC to cancel  any of the remaining charges.
So, for these reasons  I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold Mr Hs complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against  Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Ref: DRN01767323Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0176732