K822xComplaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly charged 
him for damage to a car when he voluntarily terminated his hire purchase agreement.
Background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 30 September 
2019, a copy of which is attached. 
I concluded that VWFS should have provided  a copy of the inspection report sooner than it 
did. But I thought  it was fair and reasonable that Mr P should pay for some of the repairs.  
I said this because I thought he could have  avoided the charges if hed checked  the 
condition of the car before he decided  to terminate the agreement.  Instead,  hed allowed  a 
third person  to drive the car for the duration of the agreement and to return it to the garage 
for him.
In considering what I thought Mr P should pay for, I took into account that the car was 
second hand when it was supplied, so would have already  had some  wear and tear. But 
I thought Mr P should pay for the missing parcel shelf, the chip in the front bonnet  and the 
scuffs on the wing moulding. I explained why I didnt think he should  be liable for the 
remaining charges.
VWFS had already agreed to remove the charge for the scratch to the inside of the door and 
to reduce the total amount owed by £100  to compensate  Mr P for giving him conflicting 
information about the monthly payments. I thought this was fair and reasonable and that, in 
addition, it should  pay Mr P £50 for failing to provide a copy of the inspection  report  or a 
breakdown of its charges.
VWFS agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr P didnt agree. He replied in detail saying,  in summary, that:
VWFS  didnt follow industry or legal protocols for taking back the car. He should have 
been consulted  about  any issues from the inspection  report.
BVRLA  has told him he isnt liable to pay because  the report  wasnt sent to him within  a 
reasonable time after the inspection to give him time to respond.
The photographic evidence of the damage doesnt show  the whole  car or the number  
plate and one of the photos  is of a different  colour car.
VWFS  hasnt provided evidence that the costs are appropriate or that the work was 
carried out. 
He is only prepared to pay £150.
When Mr P terminated the agreement, VWFS gave him wrong information, sent him a 
demand for payment in error and tried to keep an overpayment. He spent a lot of time 
on the phone  trying  to sort this out. And VWFS  refused to pay the compensation we 
recommended. He wont seek further  compensation if VWFS write off the amount it says 
he owes.
Ref: DRN08476392My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive carefully considered  the points Mr P has raised  in response to my provisional decision.  
But my conclusion remains  the same. Let me explain why.
Damage to the car
Whilst I take the law into account  in arriving at my decision, my role is to decide  what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances taking into account the evidence  and information 
supplied by both parties. 
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  it was fair that Mr P should  pay for some  
of the damage, even though VWFS had failed to provide him with a copy  of the inspection 
report. Mr P had given  the car to a third party to use, which  was a breach of the agreement  
terms, and he hadnt checked the car himself  before it was returned to the garage to be 
inspected. Although he says hed told VWFS that a third party  was driving  the car, Ive not 
seen evidence of this. 
Ive looked at the photographs again.  It wouldnt be possible to take a photograph  which  
shows the required detail  of the damage  and include the whole car or the number plate too. 
Im satisfied that, in all likelihood, the photographs which evidence the damage are of the car 
Mr P returned.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the charges for damage are not in line with Volkswagen  
approved repair centre  costings. And theres no obligation on VWFS to carry out any 
repairs, so I wouldnt expect to see evidence that its done so.
Distress and inconvenience
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that VWFS had made some mistakes  and that 
Mr P should  be compensated for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. I thought it 
was fair and reasonable that it reduced  the sum Mr P owed by £100  to reflect the errors in 
taking payments when  the agreement was terminated. And I thought Mr P should be paid an 
additional £50 because VWFS failed to supply him with a copy of the inspection report. Ive 
considered what  Mr P said in response to my provisional decision,  but this does not change  
my conclusion. 
He says VWFS has refused to pay the compensation we recommended.  It hasnt  it agreed 
to my provisional decision,  but it isnt obliged  to pay that compensation unless and until Mr P 
accepts this final decision.
I appreciate my decision here will come as further  disappointment  to Mr P but it is the last 
stage in our process  and should Mr P wish to continue his dispute he will need to do so 
through other means.
Ref: DRN08476393My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
1. Remove the charges,  plus VAT,  for the damage to the inner  door and the wheels 
(items 2, 4, 5 and 6 in the table in my provisional decision) from the amount Mr P 
owes.
2. Reduce the amount  Mr P then owes it by £100 to reflect its earlier offer.  This should  
leave a balance owing  of £486.84.
3. Pay Mr P £50 for the distress  and inconvenience caused for failing to provide a 
breakdown of the charges with its payment demand.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN08476394Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly charged him for 
damage to a car when he voluntarily terminated his hire purchase agreement.
background
In August 2014, Mr P obtained a car using a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. In 
March 2018, he decided to end the agreement  and return the car.
He says VWFS wrongly took two further monthly payments and he had to spend time on the phone  
trying to get these refunded.
He then received an invoice for £782.68 for damage to the car  but no breakdown  or explanation. He 
complained to VWFS, saying there were no defects or damage.  But that in any event, as part of the 
inspection process, he shouldve been given the opportunity to fix any defects.  He was also unhappy  
that hed been contacted by VWFSs  collection  department with payment demands.
VWFS said Mr P had chosen to leave  the car at the dealership  for inspection and collection  and that it 
was his responsibility to find out when the inspection would take place if he wanted to be present. It 
sent him a copy of the inspection report and said that Mr P remained liable  for the damage.  But it 
acknowledged that thered been some misunderstanding  over the monthly  payments and that Mr P 
had been given conflicting  information. So it agreed to reduce  the amount  owed by £100.
Our adjudicator concluded  that two of the items  charged for were  not within  BVRLA guidelines  and 
should be removed  from the invoice. And that VWFS should pay Mr P £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  by it not sending a copy  of the inspection report and a breakdown  of the 
charges with its invoice for damage.
VWFS said it would remove a charge of £55.20 for the inner-door scratch. But it didnt agree to 
remove any other charges,  or pay any compensation.
Mr P said, in summary, that:
 Hes been contacted by two debt collectors.
 The car was left at the dealership for convenience. 
 The BVRLA guidelines require the user to be advised of any issues and be given a chance to fix 
them. VWFS never  told Mr P about any of the issues, so he wasnt given the opportunity to fix 
them. And when  he did find out about the damage, he wasnt  given a breakdown.
 If hed known the outcome of the inspection  report, hed have kept the car and sold it privately.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear from what  Mr P has told VWFS and this service, that the car was used by an employee of 
the company where Mr P was a director. And that payments were  made from the companys account. 
But the contract  was taken out by Mr P in his sole name. So I find that any liability under  the terms of 
the agreement will be for Mr P in his personal capacity.
Ref: DRN08476395When Mr P asked about voluntary termination,  he was given details of how the inspection  process 
and return of the car would work. VWFS  said:
Your details will also be sent to our agent British  Car Auctions (BCA) for them to arrange  inspection  
and collection of the vehicle.
Once the inspection is complete you will be provided with a Vehicle Condition Report  which will 
outline any items that may fall below the minimum  standard  along  with details of repair method and 
repair costs in line with Volkswagen approved repair centre costings.  To accurately record any 
findings, the inspector will take images and video  of the vehicle.
The inspection report will be forwarded  to us in order for us to raise  an invoice for any identified 
damage and excess mileage charges. This invoice  will be sent to you in the post within 10-14  days  of 
your vehicle being collected.
Inspection and collections  are arranged  on separate dates to allow you the opportunity to carry out 
remedial work  following  the inspection.
Mr P chose to return  the car to the dealership  and for the inspection to be carried  out on its premises. 
I can see that he phoned VWFS  to ask it when the inspection would take place. And he was told this 
would happen on 22nd March and that VWFS would collect the car the following day. On this basis,  I 
find he knew  when the inspection was taking place  so couldve chosen to be present  if hed wanted 
to.
But I cant see anywhere  that VWFS  told Mr P he needed to be present at the inspection to know the 
outcome. In its letter confirming Mr Ps request to voluntarily terminate the agreement, it says,  under 
our obligations to you, that:
We will have your vehicle inspected by an independent third party to assess any damage above fair 
wear and tear and you will be provided  with a copy of the inspection report.
Mr P didnt receive a copy  of that report until after hed complained. So he says he was never given  
the opportunity to carry out the repairs  himself.  I dont think VWFS did follow its procedures - it 
shouldve provided Mr P with a copy of the report sooner than it did. But 
I think  its fair and reasonable  that Mr P does pay for some  of the repairs because  I think  he did have 
an opportunity to mitigate his losses. Let me explain why.
The hire purchase  agreement says:
While we [VWFS]  own the Vehicle, you must keep  it in your possession and control . [3.1]
Mr P acted in breach of the agreement.  He allowed a third person, an employee  of his company, to 
drive the car.
When Mr P decided  to voluntarily terminate  the agreement,  he arranged  for the employee  to return  
the car directly to the dealership. But Mr P was responsible for the car and it was his responsibility  to 
make sure the car was being  returned in a reasonable condition. VWFS had supplied Mr P with 
examples of its costs for missing items and repairs, so I think  if Mr P was keen  to avoid  any damage 
charges  it wouldve  been  reasonable  for him to check the condition of the car before  he wrote to 
terminate the agreement. And before he allowed it to be inspected.
Ref: DRN08476396The inspection report listed  the following items  that needed repair:
1 Bonnet front Chipped £138.00
2 Door shut inner right hand 
rear doorScratched £55.20
3 Parcel shelf Missing £324.03
4 Wheel LHF Scratched £36.00
5 Wheel LHR Scratched £36.00
6 Wheel RHF Scratched £36.00
7 Wing moulding RHF Scuffed £27.00
Total cost £652.23
VAT £130.45
Total £782.68
In deciding what Mr P should pay for, Ive taken into account that the car was second-hand when it 
was supplied. So, whilst  the BVRLA wear and tear guidance is useful to some extent, its important  to 
consider that the car was around two years old when it was supplied, so wouldve already had some 
wear and tear.
I think,  had Mr P seen the car before it was returned to the dealership,  it wouldve  been obvious  that 
the parcel-shelf was missing, the bonnet front was chipped and the wing moulding was scuffed (items  
1, 3 and 7). I havent seen  evidence  to show that this damage was present when the car was 
supplied, or that the parcel-shelf was missing at that time. So I think  Mr P should  pay for these items.  
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr P should pay for the scuffs on the wing moulding (item  7) because 
there was no measure  in the photograph so it wasnt clear  how large the scuffs  were. But Ive looked 
at the photograph and it includes part of the tyre. Its fairly clear from this that the scuffs  are 
sufficiently large  to not be classed as fair wear  and tear. So I think Mr P should  also pay for this 
damage.
VWFS has agreed to remove the charge for the scratch to the inside of the door (item  2).
This leaves the charges  for the scratches on three  of the wheels. Our adjudicator  concluded that, in 
accordance with the BVRLA guidelines, any damage to the wheel  spokes and the hub of the alloy 
wheel is not acceptable . But, as noted earlier, this will be the case  if the car was supplied  new. I can 
see from the photographs that there are some scratches on the wheels, but these  are not particularly 
large and I think they should reasonably be classed  as fair wear and tear. So I dont think Mr P should  
have to pay for this damage. 
So, in summary, I think its fair that Mr P should  be charged for items 1, 3 and 7  £489.03 plus VAT, 
making a total of £586.84.  
When Mr P complained, VWFS apologised for giving  him conflicting information about the monthly 
payments and said it would reduce the amount he owed  by £100. I think this is fair and reasonable.
Our adjudicator recommended  a further payment  of £150  for the distress and inconvenience Mr P had 
been caused  because he wasnt given  a copy  of the inspection report or a breakdown  of the charges  
until after hed complained.  I agree VWFS  shouldve provided this when it sent its invoice. But I think  
the main reason for Mr Ps distress is the charge itself. VWFSs  failure to provide a breakdown has 
added to this. But, if hed received the breakdown when he received the invoice,  hed still have 
disputed it. So I think a payment of £50 is fair and sufficient  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN08476397my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that to resolve  matters Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited should:
4. Remove the charges, plus VAT,  for the damage to the inner door and the wheels (items  2, 4, 5 
and 6 in the table above)  from the amount Mr P owes.
5. Reduce the amount Mr P then owes it by £100 to reflect its earlier offer.  This should leave  a 
balance owing  of £486.84.
6. Pay Mr P £50 for the distress and inconvenience  caused  for failing to provide  a breakdown of 
the charges  with its payment demand.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0847639