K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that the Prudential Assurance Company Limited mis-advised her and told 
her she couldnt take her personal pension until June 2019. She also complains about the 
way Prudential handled her phone call to it, when  she telephoned  about her additional 
voluntary contribution (AVC)  plan.
background
Mrs S met with a Prudential adviser in April 2018.  She was planning to retire early  from work 
and wanted to take her pension. She says she was told at this meeting that she wouldnt  be 
able to take her pension  until her selected retirement date (June 2019).
In October  2018, Mrs S got a letter  from Prudential  about her AVC plan. The letter  said that 
her plan had no value. This caused Mrs S to telephone Prudential.  Mrs Ss AVC plan had no 
value because it was a lapsed  life cover plan. During this call, Mrs S says she was told she 
could take her personal pension immediately. She went on to take her pension early.
Mrs S complained to Prudential. It offered her £100 compensation because it said it 
accepted that it had not fully resolved her queries when she telephoned  it. It also offered her 
£25 for the cost of the calls she had made. Mrs S didnt think  this adequately compensated 
her for the trouble  and upset she had been caused. She complained  to our service. She felt 
that £500 compensation was a more appropriate amount.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld, and that in total Prudential 
should pay Mrs S £325 by way of compensation. Prudential disagreed, so Mrs Ss complaint 
comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am minded to uphold 
Mrs S complaint, for much the same reasons as given by our adjudicator.
As some of the evidence here is either  incomplete  or contradictory, I have to make  a 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  taking into account  the 
information thats available.
Prudential no longer has a copy of all the telephone  calls between Mrs S and it. Ive seen a 
note of a discussion  between Mrs S and Prudential  from March  2018. It notes that Mrs S is 
seeking advice  on the best option  for her in retirement, and whether she should  wait until her 
selected retirement date.  So, I think this is what  Mrs S wouldve wanted to discuss  with the 
adviser. 
Ive also seen a note of the meeting from April 2018  with the adviser.  I can see this is not a 
contemporaneous note because information has been added about  the AVC that wasnt  
known at the date of the meeting. Given that, I place  limited  reliance on this note. However, 
whilst I can see that it records discussing taking the pension as a small pensions  pot, by 
annuity or drawdown, there is no reference to discussing taking  the pension  immediately.
Ref: DRN03743172Prudential says that at the meeting with Mrs S in April 2018,  its adviser  clearly  told her that 
she could access her benefits at any time after she was 55. Mrs S was over 55 at the time of 
the meeting. 
Mrs S was sent annual  statements about  her personal pension.  The last one of these, prior 
to the meeting with the adviser, was dated  April 2017, so nearly a year before. Her 2018 
statement, was dated May 2018, so it seems was not sent out until after the meeting with the 
adviser.
On the last page of the 14 page  2017 annual statement, in the technical  details, it said under 
the heading minimum retirement age that she could start taking benefits from age 55, even 
if she was still working.
The question left for me to decide  is, whether Mrs S was given  clear  information about the 
options for taking  her pension, so that she could make an informed choice about what  she 
wanted to do. 
Mrs S said if she had been given clearer information, she wouldve cashed  in her pension  
immediately and used  the money in her new business.  She  said shed planned to use the 
money to purchase  some of the larger equipment  needed to run her new business and 
wasnt able to buy this until she cashed in her pension.
Mrs S pro-actively contacted Prudential to discuss her options. So I think  it was important to 
her to understand what these were. The annual statement  did say that she could  take her 
pension after age 55, but Ive noted that this information came  at the back of a fairly long 
document sent to her around a year before. I cant know if Mrs S read or understood this, or 
remembered what was in it. Given that she contacted Prudential to discuss  her options  face 
to face, I think it likely that she wouldve placed  more reliance on the information she was 
given in the meeting with the adviser.
Based on what Prudential has said, it seems Mrs S did discuss  the new business with the 
adviser. I think Mrs S probably was looking to cash in her pension  at the earliest  opportunity, 
to build up her new business. I think had Prudential  given  her clear information  about the 
options she had (including that she had the option to cash in her pension immediately) she 
wouldve gone ahead and taken that option.  I say this because  I think it wouldve been more  
important to her to access the money immediately, to buy the equipment she wanted,  rather  
than waiting for around another  year to possibly  get a bit more money. Ive taken into 
account that she hadnt been making  any ongoing contributions into the plan for a while, so 
didnt need to keep the plan open  to receive  future contributions. And as the value of her 
plan was less than £10,000,  in all likelihood she was probably going  to take this as a small 
pension pot.  On balance, and based on what Ive seen and heard, I cant  be satisfied that 
Prudential probably  gave Mrs S the information  she needed in a clear  and fair way to enable 
her to make an informed choice. 
So, I think Mrs S has lost out because of what Prudential did wrong.  I cant  know if Mrs S 
has suffered financially as a result. She intended  to use the money to invest  in a new 
business. But, I cant feasibly say whether this money wouldve made  any financial 
difference if it had been available sooner. So, I cant fairly make  any award for financial loss.
However, I do consider  that Mrs S has been  caused some trouble and upset by Prudentials  
actions. She had to delay  her original plans. Like our adjudicator,  I agree it would be fair for 
Prudential to pay Mrs S a further £200  compensation  as a result. Prudential has already paid 
Ref: DRN03743173Mrs S £100  compensation for its poor handling  of the telephone call and the confusion about 
her AVC.  It has also reimbursed her the costs of the phone calls (£25).  I think this was a fair 
way to respond to this aspect of her complaint. Looked at together,  £325, seems to me to be 
a fair and reasonable amount, overall, to compensate Mrs S for Prudentials  shortcomings.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part. I order the Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay 
Mrs S a further £200 in total for the trouble  and upset caused by it. This is on top of the £125 
Prudential has already paid Mrs S in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0374317