K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that a Barclays  Bank UK PLC linked advisor recommended an unsuitable 
and unnecessary life and critical  illness  policy, linked to her new mortgage, given she was 
single and with no dependents. She also says it should have cancelled the policy when she 
paid off the mortgage in 2011.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld as the evidence  
indicated that Ms R had bought this policy without receiving advice.
He noted that she had signed documentation  confirming she had not received  any advice 
and that the linked business/advisor had recorded  that they were not entitled to commission  
as no advice had been given.
Ms R did not agree,  saying she was given the strong  impression that this was a clear 
recommendation, and actually  had no need  for it. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
In order to uphold  this complaint I would need  first to conclude  that there  was sufficient 
evidence to safely say that Ms R had been  recommended this policy,  and I do not believe 
there is such persuasive evidence  before  considering whether it was suitable.
I accept that Ms R may not have  read all the key details and may have signed without 
spotting that the paperwork clearly  stated that this was a non-advised sale.  But the fact that 
she may have done this is not sufficient for me to conclude that advice had been  given or 
that the advisor had misled her about this issue.
Crucially, the linked business/advisor did not receive any commission from this sale so there 
would have been no advantage in recommending this policy but then recording it was an 
execution-only sale. Indeed, the business/advisor would have given up on substantial 
commission for no reason. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the business/advisor was 
responsible for Ms Rs apparent misunderstanding.  
I note that Ms R is also unhappy  that the policy was not automatically terminated when she 
paid off her mortgage  early in 2011, and believes  that either Barclays  or the policy  provider 
should have done this. As Barclays, in my judgment, did not recommend this policy  it was 
under no obligation to explain that if she subsequently paid off her mortgage early it was her 
responsibility to cancel the policy.
Ms R says she is now considering complaining to the policy  provider. While she is entitled to 
do this, I can see no prospect of such a complaint  being upheld either by the provider or this 
service. This is because the provider was under no obligation to suggest she cancel the 
policy in 2011,  even if it was aware of this, and was not legally entitled to cancel it 
Ref: DRN06290712unilaterally. In fact, there is no reason why the provider would have even been told that Ms R 
had redeemed the mortgage.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0629071