K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank  Plc didnt downgrade their 
packaged bank  account (PBA)  to a fee-free account.
background
In 2016, Mr and Mrs W complained that theyd been mis-sold three PBAs.  NatWest  didnt 
uphold their complaints  and Mr and Mrs W asked us to investigate  them. Our adjudicators 
recommended that one of their complaints should  be upheld and NatWest agreed  to refund 
the PBA fees on that account. Our adjudicators  didnt uphold  the other two complaints and, 
as Mr and Mrs W didnt get in contact with us again, the complaints were closed.
In February 2018,  Mr and Mrs W say they realised they were still paying fees for their joint 
account. They thought the account  wouldve been  automatically downgraded to a fee-free 
account following  settlement of their 2016  complaints.
NatWest said it didnt  receive an instruction from Mr and Mrs W to downgrade the account.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She concluded that 
the banks final response to Mr and Mrs Ws 2016 complaint said the account was still open 
and fees were still being charged and it explained what Mr and Mrs W needed to do if they 
wanted to downgrade the account. She also said that when this service  communicated 
NatWests offer to refund fees on one of the PBAs, there was nothing  to say it would also 
downgrade the account.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  They  said, in summary,  that 
NatWests 2016 letter was before the complaint was referred to this service and they 
didnt think they could  downgrade the account  until the complaint was finalised.
They  won their complaint, so the account  shouldve been automatically downgraded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W complained about  three  PBAs in 2016.  I think theres been some confusion  - 
the PBA that was still open  in 2018  was not the PBA that we thought  had been  mis-sold. So 
no fees have been refunded on that account.
When our adjudicator recommended NatWest refund  fees, this was for a PBA in Mr Ws sole 
name, and this had already been downgraded  to a fee-free account in 2010. So I wouldnt 
have expected our adjudicator, or NatWest, to agree to downgrade a different account that 
Mr W held as a result  of the settlement made in that case.
In 2016 Mr and Mrs W also complained about their joint PBA.  This had been opened as an 
Advantage Gold account in November 2009  and migrated to a Select  Platinum account  in 
July 2015. We didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about their joint PBA be 
upheld.
Ref: DRN09124062In its final response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  dated 9 February 2016, NatWest said:
I can confirm the account has not been downgraded.
And it said that fees were continuing to be charged. It told Mr and Mrs W that if they wanted 
to convert to a different  account they would need to phone or visit a NatWest  branch. Mr and 
Mrs W didnt give instructions  to downgrade the account until 21 February 2018, so monthly 
fees continued to be charged  until then.
Ive considered that Mr and Mrs W say they didnt think the account could be downgraded  
until the complaint  was finalised. Theres nothing in NatWests letter  to suggest this was the 
case. And theres  nothing to suggest that this would  happen automatically, particularly as the 
complaint wasnt upheld by our service.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision, but I cant  conclude that 
NatWest has done  anything wrong  so I cant order it to refund its fees.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0912406