K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  charged  her interest for an 
item she bought  on a buy now pay later basis (BNPL) .She would like the interest refunded.
background
Miss M says she placed an order on her online shopping account  with Shop Direct Finance 
Limited (SDFL) on 28 March 2018.  She says the value of the order  was £358 on a BNPL  12 
month scheme. 
She says she didnt realise the full payment had to be made by 8 April 2019. She says she 
had diarised the payment for when she got her salary  that month.  She says when she went  
online to make the payment she found  interest totalling £216.62 had been added  to her 
account.
She says when she called SDFL she was told she would  be charged monthly interest until 
the balance was paid off in full. She feels this is unfair as she has been a good customer  
who just made a genuine mistake.  She said she had every intention  to pay the amount off in 
full as per the terms of the BNPL scheme she just wasnt aware  of he exact date payment 
was due.
SDFL said it hadnt  made  a mistake.  Under  the terms of the BNPL scheme variable  interest 
accrues from the date of purchase. But customers avoid paying any interest if the full 
amount is paid off by the due date .But Miss M didnt do this. So she was liable  for the 
interest that had accrued.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt find SDFL  had done anything wrong. 
He noted the date for making the full payment  was clear on Miss Ms February and March 
2019 statements. He also noted Miss M had said she was having  financial difficulty and 
suggested she contacted SDFL who might  be able to arrange a repayment plan with her.
SDFL accepted this view.  It said if Miss M was having  financial problems  she could contact 
its Customer Arrears Support Team (CAST) on Freephone number 0800 092 9403 .This 
team would be able to assist and support Miss M.
Miss M didnt accept this view. She said she felt she had been treated unfairly. She says she 
was told if she paid the balance off in full it was likely the interest would  be waived but it 
wasnt. She said she was only a couple of weeks late in making  the payment. She also said 
the amount of interest  was excessive for a £358 purchase.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He said the customer  
notes showed  the call handler  Miss M spoke to was going to see if he could get the interest  
payment waived but that there was no guarantee of this. He noted Miss Ms comments about  
the amount of interest  but said as the balance wasnt paid in full on 8 April 2019 interest was 
correctly added.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN05740432Miss M feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. So I realise  she is going to be 
disappointed that Ive reached  the same  view as our investigator.
Miss M bought two items on a BNPL offer. Ive looked at the terms and conditions  for her 
account and these explain in detail how BNPL offers work. In summary  interest  accrues from 
the day of purchase. No interest is payable if the full amount for the purchase(s) is paid off 
by or before the date the payment becomes due. 
If the full amount isnt paid off in full by the due date then the interest that has accrued since 
the date of purchase is charged.
In this case Miss M bought items on 28 March 2018  and the date she had to pay the full 
balance by was 8 April 2019.
I appreciate Miss M says she didnt know the exact date when the payment  was due. But as 
I understand it she gets monthly online statements. And Ive seen from these that statements 
dated February and March 2019  referred to her BNPL deal. The statements advised if the 
full amount (£358)  wasnt paid by 8 April 2019 estimated interest of £204.89 would become 
payable.
So taking into account both the terms and conditions for the account and the statement 
information I believe Miss M should have been  aware of when payment was due. I dont 
believe that SDFL  did anything wrong. From  what I can see it administered  the BNPL 
scheme correctly according  to its terms.
Miss M has told us she thought the interest  would be waived as a result of one of her phone 
calls to SDFL. Ive read the customer notes and can see that a call handler said he would 
refer this to see if it could be done,  but stressed  there was no guarantee. So on that basis I 
dont believe  SDFL  gave  any commitment to Ms M to waive the interest  payments  it just 
gave a commitment to look at doing this.
Finally Miss M has made the point she has been a loyal customer. And she is shocked by 
the interest rate that has been applied in this case.  Miss M may well be a loyal customer but 
that doesnt mean that SDFL has to waive its interest charges.
I appreciate the interest rate was high Miss M did accept that when  she went ahead with her 
BNPL purchases. The likely interest  that would be charged was also clearly stated on two of 
Miss Ms account statements.
As I dont believe that SDFL has done anything wrong I dont think I can reasonably ask it to 
waive the interest payment as Miss M would like
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2020
Ref: DRN05740433Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0574043