K821x#15complaint
P is unhappy with Bluefin Insurance Services Limited and says it fraudulently benefited from 
the insurance arrangements it made  for P.
background
P, a business, arranged  its motor trade  insurance  policy through  a broker  for a number of 
years. From  2001  to 2008, the premiums for Ps policy were  paid by monthly instalments, 
direct to the insurer under a finance  arrangement.  The broker was paid commission by the 
insurer.
On renewal in 2009, Bluefin  who had taken over the brokerage - arranged finance  with a 
new premium  finance  provider. 
P says Bluefin  deliberately didnt offer the previous arrangement of payment  direct to the 
insurer and substituted a new finance arrangement  which  was more expensive, had higher 
charges and was spread over only 10 months  rather than 12.
It says the new arrangement generated additional income for Bluefin through  a commission  
from the finance provider. Bluefin didnt earn income  from the original finance agreement  
with the insurer.
P says Bluefin  acted without its informed consent.  It wasnt given complete information about  
the options available to it. And it wasnt told about the commission Bluefin received from the 
finance provider.  
P also says the additional income  which Bluefin received from the new finance  arrangement  
created a conflict of interest for Bluefin,  which Bluefin failed to disclose. 
P complained to Bluefin.  They said they couldnt  explain  the way the finance was arranged in 
2009 because  the two key contacts for Ps account  no longer worked for them. 
They agreed to pay P the difference between the actual cost of the policy under the new 
finance arrangement  and the price P would have paid if itd continued to pay premiums direct 
to the insurer  (plus 8% interest). And they offered a further £200 in compensation for Ps 
inconvenience caused by the finance arrangement.
P was unhappy with this outcome and complained to us. P wanted at least £200 in 
compensation, the commission Bluefin  received from the finance provider (plus  8%), and the 
commission and/or profit  share Bluefin received from the insurer  (plus  8%). It also wanted  an 
explanation and an apology.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld Ps complaint. She took the view that Bluefin 
should pay P the commission they received from the finance provider only,  in addition to the 
amount already offered  by Bluefin.
P didnt  agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. In addition  to what  our 
investigator thought  was fair, P wants an explanation and an apology  from Bluefin. And P 
says its unfair that Bluefin should be allowed to retain the commission they received from 
the insurer for arranging  the policy.
Ref: DRN03462442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations,  regulators rules, guidance  and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry practice  at the 
time.
Ive considered the applicable law, including the law of agency, contract and 
misrepresentation. Its not necessary  for me to go into this in great detail in this decision. But 
Im satisfied the courts would be likely to agree that an agent  or intermediary (such as 
Bluefin in this case)  owes certain duties to their client and that they should not benefit from 
conflicts of interest without disclosing those to the client.
The rules  and regulations which applied to Bluefin  are also relevant. The FCA Handbook 
sets out the Principles which apply  to regulated businesses,  including  Bluefin. Among other 
things, the Principles require a business to: conduct  its business with integrity; pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly; communicate information to 
customers in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading; and manage  conflicts  of interest  
between itself and its customers fairly.   
There are specific  rules  which  apply to the sale of insurance products. These rules are set 
out in the Insurance:  Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS).  The rules in force in 2009  
- at the time of the events complained of - include: 
ICOBS 4.4.1R: An insurance intermediary must, on a commercial customers  request, 
promptly disclose the commission  that it and any associate receives in connection with a 
policy.
ICOBS 4.4.2G: An insurance intermediary should  include all forms of remuneration  from any 
arrangements it may have. This includes arrangements for sharing profits, for payments  
relating to the volume of sales, and for payments from premium finance  companies in 
connection with arranging finance.
ICOBS 6.1.5R: A firm must take reasonable steps  to ensure a customer is given appropriate 
information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer 
can make  an informed  decision  about  the arrangements proposed.
Ive considered guidance provided by the Financial Services Authority (FSA)  the regulator  
at the time and the predecessor of the FCA - at the relevant  times.  This emphasised  the 
need for businesses  to identify and manage conflicts of interest effectively and noted the risk 
of conflicts of interest in respect of premium  finance arrangements.
Ref: DRN03462443Ive also taken into account Bluefins Terms of Business. The relevant  terms include:
As an intermediary and your agent we owe various  duties to you. However, in certain  
circumstances we may act for and owe duties of care to other parties such as insurers  We 
will advise you if these circumstances occur so you will be aware of any possible conflict of 
interest and to obtain your advices as to how you would wish us to proceed...
Bluefin undertakes to explain all the main features of the products  and services  offered as 
well as the basis on which it has provided  information and advice. It may recommend 
preferred suppliers in situations where it is appropriate for our customers (but will confirm if 
this applies). 
Prior to the conclusion of each insurance contract  or upon renewal we will remind you of 
your right to be advised of the level of commission which we receive from insurers.  You are 
entitled at any time to request information regarding any commission which we may have  
received as a result  of placing your insurance business. (This term was in bold.)
We are usually remunerated by commission from your insurer.  You may be offered the 
opportunity to pay a fee partly or wholly in lieu of commission   We may also receive 
account-based remuneration from some providers  However, it is our policy to place 
business with an insurer solely  on the principle of putting the customers  interests first. You 
are entitled  at any time to request information  regarding any commission  which  we may have 
received as a result  of placing your insurance business.  
The terms do not refer to Bluefin receiving commission or income from a finance  
arrangement.
The facts  in this case are not disputed.  Bluefin arranged finance  for P which was more 
expensive than the previous arrangement. They  didnt tell P the previous  arrangement  could 
have continued.  They took a commission from the finance provider, which  was a new and 
more beneficial source of revenue than the previous  arrangement.  And they didnt disclose 
to P the conflict of interest  this created.  The new arrangement didnt appear to have a 
discernible benefit for P, in fact it cost more in interest. And so it was an arrangement that 
benefitted Bluefin  at a cost to P.
So, Im satisfied that in this case Bluefin  acted  unfairly towards P in the way the finance was 
arranged in 2009. Their actions were  clearly incompatible with the relevant rules and 
guidance (as described above) and contrary to their own Terms of Business (as set out 
above).
Bluefin have offered to refund to P the difference between  the cost of the policy  under the 
arrangement with the premium finance  provider  and the amount P would have paid if theyd 
continued to pay monthly  instalments direct to the insurer.  The difference  is just over £33 - 
which with 8% interest added amounts to just over £50.
I agree  with our investigator that this isnt enough, given the commission Bluefin received  
from the finance provider, which was around £100.  If Bluefin were  to keep that commission  
and refund only the difference  in payments, theyd effectively still be making a net profit of 
around £50 from an arrangement that was unfair and a clear  breach of the relevant rules and 
guidance.
Ref: DRN03462444I also have to consider  what  would have  happened   and what position P would have  been  
in  if Bluefin had acted correctly and with due regard for Ps best interests.
I think, in that case  and after Bluefin became  aware they could get just over £100 from the 
premium finance provider for making  the switch  they should have asked themselves 
whether P could  be better  off if they used the finance providers services.  
On the face of it, P would have been   and were in fact  just over £33 worse off. Bluefin 
could then have  chosen to leave  the finance arrangements as they were  putting P in much  
the same  position  theyd  been in previously. 
But a better arrangement would have been  to effectively  pass on the commission  to P (in 
whatever way), so bringing about a net saving for P. All of which, of course, should have 
been openly discussed with P beforehand.  
If passing on the commission in this way wouldnt have made up the difference in payments 
 so P were still worse off  then Bluefin  would  have needed to leave the finance 
arrangements as they were previously. And if they hadnt, Id now be expecting  them  to 
refund the difference in payments  to P. 
However, in the particular  circumstances  of this case, the commission is greater than the 
difference in payments. So Im going  to require Bluefin to pay P the commission.  
On balance, Im satisfied a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this 
complaint is for Bluefin  to now pay P the commission (plus  8% interest) rather  than the £33 
(difference in costs)  plus interest. 
Im not going  to ask Bluefin to pay both, because P couldnt have achieved  both sets of 
savings. The £33 reduction in premiums would  only have  been realised if the premium  
finance provider  hadnt been  involved. And Bluefin  could  only have realised a saving of £100 
for their client had they passed on the commission from the premium  finance provider  i.e. if 
that provider had been involved.
Bluefin also offered £200 in compensation for the inconvenience  caused for P by the finance  
arrangement. P had to pay over 10 months rather than 12, which caused a degree  of 
inconvenience for it. But I think £200 is reasonable compensation in all of the circumstances. 
In its original complaint  to us, P also asked that Bluefin  be required to pay them  the payment 
it received from the insurance provider for arranging the policy. When it responded to our 
investigators view on this case, it wasnt entirely clear  whether P still maintained  this 
position. But for the avoidance of doubt, Ill address that issue now.
In short,  Im not going to ask Bluefin to pass on to P the payment it received from the insurer.  
Ps complaint and Bluefins breach  of duty related to the finance arrangements, not to the 
renewal of the insurance. I therefore  dont think that Bluefins breach of duty related to the 
whole of its relationship with P. 
Ref: DRN03462445Bluefin would still have received the same payment it did from the insurers  in 2009,  
regardless of which finance arrangement  it had arranged for P. P was aware that Bluefin  
might receive this payment from the insurers and had agreed to Bluefin receiving it. By 
contrast, it was not aware of the income  which Bluefin received from the finance 
arrangement and had not agreed  to this. I therefore  dont think  it would be proportionate to 
order Bluefin to pass on to P its payment for the renewal of the insurance  policies.  
When P asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman,  it also said that it couldnt  agree with 
our investigators view because Bluefin werent being required to provide an explanation or 
apology for their actions  in 2009.
In the particular circumstances of this case I dont think  a forced apology would achieve any 
material benefit. And in any case, in their final response to Ps complaint (dated 
20 September 2017), Bluefin apologised specifically for not being able to offer an 
explanation of their actions  in 2009  (Ill comment on Bluefins failure to offer an explanation  
below). They also offer a broader apology for any inconvenience P suffered as a result  of the 
2009 finance arrangement.
I can understand Ps frustration that Bluefin cant explain why they did what they did in 2009. 
However, I have to accept  that the two key employees are no longer with Bluefin. And I need  
to bear in mind  the amount of time thats passed since  Ps policy  was renewed in 2009.  
Bluefin say theres no record to explain what happened.  And they cant question the 
individuals directly  involved. That being the case,  it seems to me that there is no explanation 
that can now be found and/or revealed. I certainly  cant force Bluefin to give an explanation 
when they dont have one.
In summary,  Im satisfied  Bluefin acted  unfairly in the way they arranged  finance for Ps 
policy at renewal in 2009. Bluefin shouldnt profit from that and should pass  on their 
commission to P. And theyve agreed to compensate P for the inconvenience. But I dont 
think they should pass on to P the payments they got from the insurer  for arranging the 
policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint against Bluefin Insurance  Services 
Limited and require them to:
pay P £100.94, together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date the 
premium finance arrangement was put in place to the date of reimbursement;; and 
pay P the sum of £200 for the inconvenience  caused by its conduct in relation to the 
premium finance arrangement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0346244