K820x#14Complaint
Mr H says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
Mr H took out the PPI alongside a mortgage  in 1990. The PPI protected his monthly 
repayments if Mr H couldnt work  due to disability. It didnt include unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H says he was led to believe he had to have PPI if he wanted  the mortgage.  While Ive 
carefully considered  what hes said, there just isnt enough evidence  for me to find that that 
was the case.
The copy  mortgage  application form Mr H signed made it clear the PPI was separate to the 
mortgage and was an optional extra. I note he was asked to tick a box for either disability 
and unemployment  cover or for just disability cover. The second option, which was cheaper 
than the first, was chosen. 
So, I think B&B gave Mr H a clear choice  about whether to take PPI  and the type of cover 
he wanted  and that he decided to go ahead with it. 
I dont think B&B recommended the PPI to Mr H. But it should still have given him clear,  fair 
and not misleading information about  it so he could  decide for himself if it was right for him. I 
cant be certain as to whether B&B did that, but I cant  see that better  information  would have 
made a difference to Mr H given his circumstances.  For example:
Mr H was eligible for the cover. And he wasnt  significantly  affected  by any of the 
main exclusions  to, or limits on, the PPI. 
He seems to have had a need  for the cover   I gather Mr H was self-employed and 
so wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay. And it appears he had no other ways of 
meeting his mortgage repayments, such as with savings or other insurance, if he 
couldnt work. On the other  hand,  the PPI benefits could potentially have paid out for 
as long as he was disabled or until the mortgage  ended,  if that came sooner. 
I cant see that hed have found the monthly premium  of £3.50 unaffordable.  And the 
policy was flexible  in that he could have  cancelled it any time, and at no extra cost, if 
he decided he no longer wanted  it.
Ref: DRN04318592Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr H has lost out because  of how B&B sold him 
the PPI.
 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0431859