K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  mis-sold a number of packaged  bank accounts.  
Her account history  is as follows,
Fee Free Classic Account opened in 2011
Upgraded to a fee paying  Silver account in March  2012
Upgraded to a fee paying  Gold account in April 2012
Upgraded to a fee paying  Platinum  account  also in April 2012
Upgraded to a fee paying  Premier account in July 2012
Downgrade to a fee free Classic  account in November 2014
Upgraded to a fee paying  Silver account in November 2015
background
BOS objected to us looking at all of the sales apart  from the Silver account  sold in November 
2015 as it believed that the complaint had been brought too late. One of our adjudicators 
looked into this and agreed  that we could only look at the sale of the Silver account that was 
sold in November 2015. Mrs L did not object  to this and therefore we only looked into this 
sale and an adjudicator thought that this account  had not been mis-sold.
Mrs L did not agree with this and asked that her complaint be put forward  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. Having  done so, I dont think  BOS mis-sold the Silver account 
to Mrs L in November  2015. Id like to explain why I think thats  the case.
Mrs L has not said why she feels this particular upgrade was mis-sold  and has just said 
about all of her upgrades  that she was told that free banking  was coming to an end and that 
BOS took advantage of her poor knowledge  of English. She has also said that was not made 
aware of the fees or benefits of the account.
But in this instance this account was taken out online by Mrs L herself  without the presence 
of BOS staff and I can see that she upgraded from a free account. So I am not satisfied that 
it is likely  that she upgraded for the reason that she has provided.
I also dont think that it is likely  that she upgraded her account  online without being made 
aware of the fees or benefits that this account  came  with. After all she had held a number of 
packaged bank  accounts in the past which came  with different benefits so I think  the reason 
she specifically chose  the Silver account  on this occasion was because she was attracted to 
the benefits that it came with. I also think that it is more  likely than not that the cost and 
benefits of the account wouldve been set out during the upgrade  process.
I note Mrs Ls comments  that BOS took advantage  of her poor English. But as this account 
was taken online by Mrs L it was ultimately up to her to decide  whether to proceed if she did 
not feel that she understood what she was agreeing to.
Ref: DRN02670162I accept that Mrs L may not have been  told everything about  all of the benefits that the 
account came with but I cant see anything specific that she was not told that I think would 
have altered her decision to take out the account.
I understand that with hindsight Mrs L may think that she should  not have upgraded her 
account or that she has not really used  the account as much as she had expected.  But 
ultimately I think that she upgraded herself knowing she did not have to after having a 
reasonable idea of the main benefits  and cost of the account. So I do not think that this 
account was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0267016