K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about his rental  property  insurer  U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) because 
it said he failed to tell it about one of his previous businesses having been  liquidated  when 
he, individually as a landlord, applied for cover  with it. When  it found out about the 
liquidation, after Mr B had made a claim,  UKI avoided the policy  (treated it as though it had 
never existed) and, by association, declined the claim.
background
In 2003 Mr B was a director  of a limited company. In 2015 that business went  into liquidation, 
with significant  debts acknowledged by Mr B. The business was dissolved in 2016.
In February 2018  Mr B called UKIs agent,  which Ill refer to as T. Mr B told T, which  he 
seems to have used for insurance provision  before,  that his previous policy had lapsed  and 
he needed new cover.  Ts advisor explained  that hed use some previous details but needed 
to go through  a declaration and some questions with Mr B, which he should answer honestly. 
One of the questions Mr B was asked is:
Have you ever been declared  bankrupt, insolvent  or the subject of bankruptcy  
proceedings?
Mr B said No. After  UKIs underwriters  gave some consideration to a concern it had in 
respect of a previous flood at the property which was the subject of the insurance application, 
cover was offered  by UKI. Mr B accepted the offer and the policy  was incepted.
In October  2018 Mr B had cause to make a claim on the UKI policy.  During its claim 
investigations UKI discovered the liquidation.  UKI noted that on its statement of facts  part 
of the policy  documentation that is provided when cover is arranged   the following 
assumption appeared with which the prospective policyholder has to have  agreed  with in 
order for cover to have  been granted:
"Neither the proposer,  director  or partner  of the Trade or Business or its Subsidiary 
Companies either personally or in any business capacity:
has been the subject of a County Court Judgement and/or ever been  cited  in any unsatisfied 
court judgements (or the Scottish  equivalent) within the last 10 years;
has been subject  to an individual voluntary arrangement with creditors, voluntary liquidation,  
a winding  up or administration order, or administrative receivership proceedings within the 
last 10 years."
UKI felt Mr B should have told it about  the liquidation. It told Mr B that if he had disclosed it, it 
wouldnt have offered him cover.  It also felt that he should have known it wouldve wanted to 
know this information,  and that it would  have been fresh  in his mind given it was fairly recent 
and involved  significant sums of money.  UKI concluded that Mr B had been reckless in not 
telling it about  the liquidation  and told him that not only was it avoiding his cover  and 
declining his claim, it was keeping  his premium too and would not be reimbursing it.
Mr B complained to us. Our investigator  felt that T hadnt asked a clear enough question to 
elicit the information  UKI wanted to know about  i.e. the financial issues  of businesses linked 
to Mr B. But he thought  the statement of fact Mr B had seen should have prompted him to tell 
it. So our investigator felt that UKIs  avoidance and decline were fair but that it hadnt been  
reasonable for it to say that Mr B had acted  recklessly.  He said UKI should reimburse the 
Ref: DRN08021962premium.
Mr B said he was disappointed  but hed accept what we said. UKI said it couldnt  agree that 
Mr B had acted anything less than recklessly. Therefore, UKI said,  it couldnt  agree with our 
investigators suggestion to treat this as a careless  misrepresentation only and refund Mr Bs 
premiums. UKI asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt it should  be upheld. In my view UKIs avoidance 
had been unfair given  the question Mr B had actually been  asked. I thought  it should  
reinstate the cover, removing  the record of the avoidance from any database, consider the 
claim, pay for any increased  premium costs and £250 compensation.
Mr B said he accepted my findings.  UKI said it disagreed with them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisionally I said:
The policy  Mr B arranged, because he is a landlord,  was a commercial  one. But Mr B is not 
a truly commercial customer.  He isnt what this service would view as sophisticated. So, 
Mr B is entitled to be treated in the same way as any other  non-commercial consumer would.
It is accepted within  the insurance industry that most customers  arent experts in insurance 
matters. The legislation  in place reflects the fact that the average person wont  know what  
informations important to insurers when  cover is being applied  for. Insurers are expected  to 
communicate what important information they want to know by asking questions  that are 
clear, and clear enough to elicit that information. If a clear  question is asked and answered 
incorrectly by an applicant  then the insurer might, if that incorrect  information is only 
discovered later, have  a remedy for that. But if an insurer doesnt ask a clear enough 
question then it cant claim later that it was misled by any correct  answer  the applicant,  now 
its policyholder, gave.
Here, T handled the application on behalf of UKI. T asked the question  quoted  above, but the 
assumption within UKIs statement of facts  is different. It doesnt reflect the question  asked. 
UKI has confirmed that it wasnt just Mr Bs personal financial issues it wanted to know  
about. It was his businesses finances  too. Ts question  only asked about personal  finances: 
Have you.. It didnt  ask, touch on or indicate that UKI wanted to know about business  
finances. It wasnt a clear enough question.
It hasnt been  suggested by UKI that Mr B has a financial history that would mean he had 
answered Ts question incorrectly. So, Mr B was asked  a question which he answered  
correctly. Which means he did not mislead UKI nor provide a qualifying misrepresentation 
such that might entitle UKI to avoid his policy, decline his claim and withhold his premium.  
Therefore, in my view,  UKIs  action  of avoiding the policy, and by association declining  the 
claim, was unfair and unreasonable.  UKI now needs  to put that right.
If my final decision remains that UKI did not ask a clear question  to Mr B, meaning that there  
was no qualifying misrepresentation  made, it will have to reinstate the cover and consider the 
claim. I dont  know if, in the period  since the avoidance, Mr B found alternate cover   if he did 
Ref: DRN08021963and it cost him more  than the UKI policy, UKI will have to reimburse any difference  in 
premium to him. Thats because but for its unfair avoidance, Mr B wouldnt have incurred that 
extra cost.
Im also satisfied that the avoidance will have  been  frustrating for Mr B. It likely caused  him a 
lot of worry. I have to divorce  from this any concern or upset Mr B had about  the claim being  
declined  as UKI hasnt  considered the claim yet, I dont know if it would have been 
accepted. For the upset  Im currently satisfied UKI caused Mr B, I intend to require it to pay 
him £250 compensation.
For the avoidance of doubt  if UKI should convince me I am wrong  in what Ive set out 
above, I dont  think Mr B acted recklessly.  He answered what  he was asked. Im aware he 
said he saw and checked the statement of facts but that doesnt mean he spotted the 
different wording in the assumption  and chose not to question  why T hadnt asked him about 
his business activity. I think its most likely  that, at worst, Mr B carelessly scanned through 
the document, not paying it much heed, because  he trusted T to have  handled his application  
properly. And that included  asking him all appropriate questions,  which he had answered  
honestly.
UKI said my findings risked setting a dangerous precedent in terms of overturning its findings 
so far as to make it reinstate cover. UKI said it wasnt fair to compare Mr B to an average 
employed person  because he had been  a director of one limited company and a company 
secretary for another. UKI said Mr B runs businesses for a living  and is a commercial 
customer as he owns and lets out a property  for income. As such  UKI said it feels Mr B is 
fully aware of the importance of reading terms and conditions and agreeing to them. It said it 
was not fair, in fact it was dangerous, for us to place  no weight here on the terms Mr B 
himself had agreed to having read.
I understand that UKI disagrees with my findings.  But nothing it has said gives  me cause to 
change them. 
Mr B has clearly  been involved at a high level with two limited companies. He also lets out 
this one house that he owns.  But that does not mean he is au fait with insurance rules and 
regulations, or that he has a knowledge  of insurance  matters  above and beyond any average 
residential consumer.  Nor am I aware of Mr B having access  to the resources and 
knowledge a true commercial customer would have  such  as an in-house legal department. 
UKI is not unfamiliar with this services approach to treating unsophisticated commercial  
customers such as Mr B like any other consumer. UKI hasnt presented  any argument or 
evidence which makes  me think it would be fair to say I should  consider Mr B to be 
sophisticated and, therefore, treat him as a commercial entity.
Policy terms and conditions are important. And policyholders should always read them.  I am 
not seeking to disregard  their general importance. However, the issue  of misrepresentation  
which is the issues in question here,  did Mr B misrepresent his position to UKI?   turns  on 
what question UKI asked Mr B. Not what question UKI included  within  paperwork which Mr B 
said he had read but probably should have paid more attention to after hed answered  the 
question UKI chose to ask him. 
Further, as set out in my provisional findings  (copied  above here), the question  asked was 
directed in such a way as Mr B reasonably answered in respect of himself as an individual. 
The word  UKI used was you and there were no caveats or additions to that. I cant say that 
I agree  with UKI that Mr B, having  been  involved in a limited  company, should have heard 
Ref: DRN08021964the word you and assumed UKI wanted  to know about matters related to the separate  legal 
entities of the limited  companies. Its clear to me, as an insurance  expert,  and UKI of course,  
that it wanted to know about the finances of businesses Mr B had run  but that is not what 
UKI asked.  The legislation is clear  if a clear enough question  is not asked then no 
qualifying misrepresentation occurs. And it is only a qualifying misrepresentation which  
allows an insurer to avoid  cover.
In summary,  I remain of the view that Mr B, based on the question  he was asked by UKI, did 
not make  a misrepresentation to UKI about the financial history of a business he was a 
director of. My provisional findings in this respect  now form part of the findings of this, my 
final decision.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Reinstate Mr Bs cover, removing the record of the avoidance from its own and any 
industry database.
Consider Mr Bs claim.
If proof  is provided  of more expensive alternate cover,  reimburse Mr B the difference  
between that and the price hed have paid for the UKI policy,  plus interest* on each 
overpayment from the date each was paid until settlement is made.
Pay Mr B £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr B, it should tell 
him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0802196