K822xcomplaint
Miss B is unhappy with the way CIS General Insurance Limited has handled three claims for 
escape of water under her home insurance policy and with the settlement it offered her.
background 
Between March  2017 and October  2018 Miss B made three  claims to CIS for damage 
caused by water leaks. She said the first was in the kitchen  due to blocked drains, the 
second was a burst pipe on the washing  machine in the utility room  and the third was a 
leak from the toilet in the bathroom  which damaged the dining room,  lounge and 
conservatory.
With regard to the first leak CIS said not all of Miss B's kitchen units  had been affected by 
the leak. Since  it wasn't possible to replace the damaged  units  with ones that would match  
the rest of Miss B's kitchen, CIS offered Miss B a 50% contribution  towards the cost of 
replacing the undamaged units.  It offered her a cash settlement of £2,225  after deduction  
of the £150 excess. Miss B didn't think that was enough. She sent CIS a quote for 
£10,366. CIS said that was for a higher quality kitchen than her existing one.
In respect of the second claim CIS offered a settlement of £3,530 based on its loss 
adjuster's schedule of works. Miss B said she'd been quoted £11,549. CIS felt Miss B's 
quote was excessive.
Miss B had estimates of £11,827  and £12,323  to repair the damage caused by the third 
leak. This included a new toilet. CIS said the toilet wasn't damaged and the leak had come 
from a pipe leading to the toilet.  It said there was no damage to Miss B's bathroom  and the 
only damage downstairs caused by this leak was covered in the schedule of work for repairs  
to damage  caused by the leak from the washing  machine.
In February 2019  CIS looked into alternative  accommodation for Miss B so that its supplier  
could clean and repair the property without  disrupting  her. As Miss B had a number of 
dogs, it wasn't  easy to find somewhere suitable. Miss B provided  details  of a lodge where 
she and her dogs  could stay for a month at a cost of £1,800.  CIS paid her that amount. 
Unfortunately it later turned out that there'd been  a misunderstanding  and the cost was 
actually £3,380 a month.  CIS suggested that Miss B should  move out for a week to enable 
some cleaning to take place. Miss B said the accommodation  was no longer available.
Miss B felt the delay on the part of CIS led to black mould developing in her home and that 
caused her to have serious  health issues. She also said she had no heating or hot water  
because her boiler had been  damaged by one of the water leaks.
CIS said that if there  was mould at Miss B's property, it would clean  it. CIS sent swabs  
from the property for testing. It said the results  were inconclusive. Miss B thought that was 
because it hadn't taken  proper samples.  In March 2019 Miss B sent a report to CIS from a 
specialist who'd visited her property.  He said that there was mould on the walls  in the 
ground floor of her property which he thought  might  have been due to water evaporating 
after the leaks. He said he could clean the mould  at a cost of £300 and he didn't think it 
would return. CIS said although it wasn't persuaded that there  was toxic mould at the 
property, it would pay the £300  anyway.
Ref: DRN02012512CIS thought the boiler might have stopped working because of its age but said it would 
consider replacing this if Miss B could show it had been damaged by the water leak.
Miss B complained to CIS about  the way that it had handled her claim and its cash  
settlement offer.
CIS accepted that there'd been some delays and poor communication in handling  her 
claim. It paid her £200 compensation for this.
In March 2019 CIS decided to pay Miss B £20,000 in full and final settlement of her claim. 
It said that included the cost of the works its loss adjuster  considered necessary, a 50% 
contribution towards replacing  undamaged kitchen units and bathroom fittings, a new 
boiler and £3,380 for one month's  accommodation. Overall it estimated that these costs 
could reach  £19,491.
Miss B brought her complaint to this service.
In August  2019  Miss B provided evidence that her property was still damp  with a lot of black  
mould. CIS said that it would consider the matter  further if Miss B provided a new or updated 
report outlining why the property was damp.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold Miss Bs complaint 
in part. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
Firstly I'd like to say how sorry I was to hear about  the awful  state Miss B's property is in 
now and the effect  it's had on her health. I don't doubt the evidence  she's  provided in 
respect of this. What  I need to decide  is the extent to which,  if at all, this is CIS's  fault.
dampness and mould
It was Miss B's responsibility to arrange  for the various leaks  to be repaired.  It wasn't  until 
the end of February 2019 that Miss B told CIS all the leaks  had now been fixed by her 
plumber. CIS then sent its drying  company back to the property. In March  2019 it 
confirmed that the affected  areas  were  as dry and decontaminated as they'd been before 
the damage happened.
Miss B has recently provided a report stating  that her property is damp with a lot of black  
mould. The writer of the report thinks the likely  cause is the fact that the plasterboard 
wasn't taken off the walls  in order to dry the property and it has retained  water "like a 
sponge". I note that at one point CIS instructed its supplier to lift up flooring in the dining 
room and lounge, remove plaster from walls in the kitchen and utility room  and remove 
skirting boards in the dining  room, lounge, kitchen  and utility  rooms. But it appears  that its 
supplier refused to go back to the property. CIS didn't instruct anyone  else to carry out 
those works.
For some  reason the same supplier issued  a certificate saying that the property was as 
dry as it had been  before the leaks, which certificate predates the loss adjuster asking it to 
dry the property.
So I'm not persuaded that the property was properly dried by CIS before it settled the 
buildings claim. I accept it's possible there  could be another leak or the damp/mould could 
be caused by something that isn't covered  by her insurance  policy.  But in view of the fact 
Ref: DRN02012513that CIS didn't arrange for the drying works which it had originally thought necessary to be 
carried out, I don't think it was reasonable of CIS to say that it would only consider the 
matter further if Miss B provided  a new or updated report outlining why the property was 
damp.
In order to treat Miss B fairly I think CIS should arrange for a different expert  to inspect the 
property and assess the cause of the dampness  and mould. If the expert  believes that the 
most likely cause  is the failure to dry the property out from March 2019 onwards, then CIS 
should accept responsibility for drying the property properly  and reconsider its claim 
settlement.
alternative accommodation
Miss B's policy covers the cost of alternative  accommodation  if her property couldn't  be 
lived in due to the insured damage. At the time when it made the cash  settlement, CIS's  
loss adjuster advised the property could still be lived in. But it was prepared to pay for one 
month's accommodation  because it would be easier to clean  the property if Miss B and her 
dogs were elsewhere.
I can understand that it wouldn't  be easy for CIS to find somewhere which  would take 
Miss B and her dogs. It's unfortunate that after Miss B found  somewhere that appeared  to 
be suitable, there was some sort of mix-up. But I can't  hold CIS responsible  for that 
because it didn't arrange it. I note that it didn't seek to recover  the sum of £1,800 which  it 
had paid Miss B for accommodation and included in its cash  settlement a sum for a further 
four weeks  in similar accommodation to the one Miss B had originally chosen. I think CIS 
treated Miss B fairly in this respect.
poor communication
During the course of the claim Miss B had contact with a number of different claims 
handlers and representatives of CIS. She was unhappy with the way she was treated by 
several of them and felt they were trying to bully her. I'm sorry to hear this. Unfortunately  a 
recording of the particular call Miss B complained  about wasn't available  for me to review. 
Without any evidence  to substantiate this part of Miss B's complaint, I'm unable  to make 
any finding in this regard.
delays
It seems  to me that the main reason for the delay in settling this claim was because CIS was 
waiting for Miss B to provide estimates. These  weren't sent in until July 2018. CIS did offer 
to send its own supplier  in to provide costings but Miss B didn't want  this. Having looked at a 
timeline of the claim up to the point of the cash settlement I can see that there  were  a few 
instances where CIS could also have dealt with the claim more  promptly. I note that CIS 
took this into account  when  awarding £200  compensation for delays and poor 
communication. I think this is appropriate in the circumstances.
cash settlement
Miss B has a "new for old" policy, so she was entitled to replace  her damaged  kitchen 
units with new ones.  But that didn't mean  she was entitled  to have her kitchen, utility room  
and bathroom completely  replaced at CIS's  expense.  Having looked at her quotes for the 
kitchen and bathroom, I think this is the reason for the huge discrepancy between  what 
she wanted to spend and what  CIS was prepared to pay.
But where a consumer will end up with something  that doesn't match, as in the case  of the 
kitchen units, I do expect  insurers  to pay compensation  to reflect  the fact that there's a 
Ref: DRN02012514mis- match. I usually think 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged parts of the set is 
fair compensation in these circumstances. Since that's what  CIS offered here,  I think that 
was a fair approach.
Initially CIS wanted evidence that Miss B's toilet had been damaged before it would agree 
to replace that and pay 50% of the cost of replacing  the bathroom suite. But I note that it 
allowed for this anyway  in its cash settlement even though Miss B hadn't shown that the 
toilet needed replacing. I think it treated Miss B reasonably in this respect.
Overall I'm not persuaded that, as things stood in March 2019, CIS's offer of £20,000 to 
settle Miss B's building  claim was unfair  or unreasonable.
contents claim
Miss B told CIS that some of her furniture had been  damaged by the water  leaks. At one 
point CIS asked its supplier to assess that damage. However CIS then proceeded to settle 
the claims before that assessment  was done and the cash settlement of £20,000 didn't 
include anything  for contents. So in order to treat Miss B fairly I think it should assess that 
part of her claim without  further delay.  I also think it should pay her a further £200 for the
trouble and upset  caused by the delay in getting around to this.
CIS accepted my provisional decision. Miss B sent me photos showing that the condition of 
her home has unfortunately deteriorated  even  further. She asked  that the expert appointed 
to assess the cause of the damage and mould  should be totally  independent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In complaints where the outcome is that an experts report is needed, this service will often 
require an insurer to provide a list of three  independent suitably qualified  experts to its 
policyholder. The policyholder then picks one of these experts for the insurer to appoint in 
the joint names of itself and the policyholder but at the insurers  expense. This means only 
suitably qualified companies are selected but that the policyholder gets the peace  of mind of 
having chosen the expert that will do the work.  This is important as both parties will be 
bound by the findings of that expert.  Thats what I think is appropriate in this case.  If Miss B 
isnt satisfied that any of the experts  shortlisted by CIS arent fully independent, she will be 
able to challenge it regarding that.
In all other respects the parties have  accepted  my provisional findings. So I see no reason to 
change them and they now form part of the findings of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require CIS General Insurance Limited to:
arrange for an independent expert  (chosen and appointed as set out above) to inspect 
Miss B's property  and assess the cause of the dampness and mould. If the expert  
believes that the most  likely cause  is the failure  to dry the property out from March 2019  
onwards, then CIS should accept responsibility for drying the property properly and 
reconsider its claim settlement.
assess Miss B's contents claim; and
pay a further £200 compensation  to Miss B.
Ref: DRN02012515Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0201251