K820x#14Complaint
Mrs F complains (through her representative  Mr C) that Vanquis Bank Limited  (VBL)  made 
several increases  to the credit  limit on her credit  card without  following the rules  of 
responsible lending. This led to her suffering financial hardship.
Background
Mrs F opened a credit  card with VBL in 2010. From opening through to January 2012  VBL 
increased the credit limit on the account  four times.  The fifth occasion  was in June 2016 
where it was increased by £500 to £3500. Mrs F maintained the required minimum payments 
on her card until 2018 when she began missing  payments, which coincided with the very sad 
event of her husbands  death.
Mr C, on Mrs Fs behalf, complained to the bank that they had increased her credit  limit and 
thus allowed  spending, without conducting  sufficient credit worthiness  checks,  which has 
resulted in Mrs F being unable to meet the payments. VBL sent their final response saying 
they had not investigated  the increases which occurred up to and including  January 2012, 
due to the FCA rules, as they occurred over 6 years ago. They only considered the increase 
in 2016. They determined they acted  correctly with the credit increase being considered and 
offered in accordance with the rules. They did not uphold the complaint.  Mr C did not accept 
this finding so complained  to this organisation on Mrs Fs behalf.
With regard to the scope of her investigation,  as she explained in her view, the investigator 
decided that the credit increases from 2010  until 2012 were  outside of the time limits 
whereby a consumer  can complain to us. This means she was only able to investigate the 
circumstances around the increase in June  2016.
When investigating this type of complaint, the investigator would examine whether the lender 
has reasonably  assessed  a customers ability to repay what they are borrowing. VBL have 
explained their procedures when increasing  credit limits and the type of information they 
seek, using both their own records and that of credit  reference agencies.  They  also provided 
details of how the increase is offered in writing, including the option for the consumer to 
refuse the increase. The investigator  has compared these to what  was required by the 
Financial Conduct  Agency  (FCA)  and the UK Cards Association best practice and found, 
from the evidence  supplied, these were followed correctly.
The investigator then considered whether VBL raising the credit limit in Mrs Fs case had 
been a responsible step to take and whether it could have reasonably  foreseen that it could 
lead to Mrs F being unable to meet  the required payments. The investigators view was that 
it would  have been unlikely that VBL would have  known or suspected that Mrs F was in 
financial difficulties in 2016 when the rise was given.  The investigator also felt the account 
was being kept in good order with no missed payments until August 2018,  and indeed as 
soon as they were  informed of the tragic  circumstances,  they took the correct steps to 
protect her from further debt on the card.
The investigators view was that VBL acted  responsibly and fairly. Mr C disagreed  so the 
matter has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ref: DRN06854262Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We as an ombudsman service are 
restricted in what we can investigate, and one area of restriction is time limits. The rules say 
we cant look at a complaint  if it was made  more  than:
Six years after the event complained  of; or if later
Three years from when the customer was aware, or ought  reasonably to have been  
aware, of cause for complaint;  
I have reviewed this decision in my role as an ombudsman. Having looked at the 
circumstances, I agree  that the first four increases are out of our jurisdiction,  so the 
investigators decision to only consider  the circumstances of the credit increase in 2016 and 
onwards is correct. Ill explain why.
Six years: The first thing that needs to be considered  is when the event complained 
about occurred,  and when the complaint  was first made to the bank or ourselves. 
This must be within  6 years. The complaint was first made to VBL in December 2018. 
This means that all the increases up to and including January 2012 were outside  this 
six-year limit.
Three years: If it is outside  the six-year limit then the complaint can be made  within 
three years of when  Mrs F knew, or ought  to have known she had cause for 
complaint. I believe, in this case, this would be when  Mrs F was informed of the credit  
increases. For each of the increases, VBL have shown that they gave her written  
notice 30 days prior to each. For this reason, I have  decided  these are out of time.
I can still look into complaints made  outside  these time limits  if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional  circumstances.  As Ive said above, I am satisfied 
that Mrs F was aware of the increases to her credit limits at the time they were  given, and 
Mrs F hasnt  given  any reason for the delay.
So now I move  on to my decision about  the circumstances of the one credit increase that is 
within our jurisdiction. I have based my decision on what is expected  of lenders when 
assessing a customers  credit worthiness and whether this was fair in Mrs Fs 
circumstances. 
A lender must carry out proportionate checks to determine whether  credit (and significant 
increases to credit limits) was, as far as the lender could tell, affordable  and sustainable and 
would not adversely affect the customer. A proportionate check will depend  on many things, 
such as what a lender  knows  about  the customer, size of credit,  term for repayment, and 
their lending history.
As previously stated, VBL have provided us evidence  to show their internal process and 
what they consider  when  assessing if a customer can and should be offered an increase in 
their available credit. They have also shown  how, when  considering  offering the credit 
increase in 2016, this process was applied to Mrs Fs case; I can see they have not only 
looked at how Mrs F managed her account (she had not missed a payment in 4 years),  but 
have taken into account information shown  on her credit file, that she had no outstanding 
CCJs or debt defaults and her level of borrowing across other lenders was within their 
lending policy 
Ref: DRN06854263I have noted that Mrs F only ever made  the minimum payments required between 
2012 and 2016. This can be an indication of financial difficulties; however, I have found no 
other significant indicators that should have alerted VBL to Mrs F being in financial difficulty 
or that it would have  been difficult for her to manage.
Having examined  VBLs process when considering  and offering credit increases, I am of the 
opinion that it complies  with the UK Cards Association best practice guidelines:
the card issuer should give 30 days notice of the increase.
it should offer the customer the option to reject the increase  in writing, online or by 
telephone.
and the Financial Conduct Authoritys  rules (CONC 5.2A) - The business must consider how 
the increase may adversely impact the customers financial  situation. It will do this, as VBL 
did, by taking into account things like:
the information it already has about the customer at the time of the increase.
the lending  history of the customer and how they have previously managed their 
account.
information obtained from a credit reference agency 
I am aware  of the distressing time Mrs F has been  through with the death of her husband 
and can understand how this has added  to the financial  difficulties she is now facing. This is 
something that I cannot imagine, and I feel very sorry for her.
That said,  when looking at the process that the company  followed when they raised her 
credit limit in 2016, their considerations, and how they applied  these to Mrs Fs situation,  I 
cannot conclude  they acted irresponsibly, and the change to her circumstances was not 
something that they reasonably could  have foreseen.  I also cant  see any reason why they 
should have acted differently during the period from when the increase was offered in 2016, 
to when they were  made aware of the awful changes in Mrs Fs circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0685426