K820x#14complaint
Mrs F is unhappy  that Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused her the refund she wants from it.
background
In May 2018  Mrs F used  her credit card provided  by Barclays to help to buy a used car. She 
said the next day the car went into limp mode. Despite Mrs Fs repeated attempts to sort this 
out, she told us the problem  remains.
Mrs F wants to rely on the rights she told us she has here under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
Barclays said at first that their understanding of the complaint was that Mrs F was asking it to 
refund her for the failed  repair  works.  It said it had asked the supplier to provide information  
to show what repair works  were done.  But it didnt provide this. So Barclayss  position was it 
could do nothing further. However,  Barclays indicated it would look at this complaint again,  if 
the supplier sent it the information  at a later date.
That said,  Barclays agreed that Mrs F had been caused inconvenience  because she had to 
chase up this matter.  It offered her £100 to make up for this.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response Mrs F came to our service.
Once Mrs F had come  to us, Barclays told us that its understanding  now was that Mrs F 
wanted to claim for the total cost of the car or for the repairs  to put it right.  But its stance was 
still it thought  it couldnt  help her any further  until she provided  it with information to show  
what repairs had been done. Also it wanted an experts report to show  what  was currently 
wrong with the car (if anything).
Our investigator looked into Mrs Fs complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. He 
concluded that on balance, Mrs Fs car had problems due to wear and tear issues.  In 
particular, he noted that was the conclusion of the experts report.  He noted too that the car 
had not gone into limp mode when tested by the expert. For all of these reasons, he didnt 
think it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, to hold Barclays  responsible  for any of 
this.
Barclays accepted  our investigators  recommendation, but Mrs F did not. In summary,  Mrs F 
didnt think the expert  had tested the car properly. Further, she told us after the inspection, 
her husband  drove the car and it went into limp mode. She told us the expert  had told her 
not to drive the car until the problems with it were  sorted.
Mrs F asked  that an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished my review of Mrs Fs 
complaint. I am not upholding it. Please let me explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and in my own words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point made by all the parties  
Ref: DRN02917372involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive focussed on what  I think are the 
key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, when I think about what is a fair way to resolve Mrs Fs complaint, I have 
to take account  of relevant law, amongst other  things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore 
Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt  mean Im obliged to reach the same  outcome as, 
for example, a court  might reach if Mrs F pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. This is because,  our service is an informal alternative to the courts  as I have 
already mentioned, and it operates under different rules from a court.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs F has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against the supplier she can also bring that claim against Barclays  provided 
certain conditions  are met.
Mrs F suggests that there  has been a breach  of contract.  She indicates  there  has been a 
breach of the implied term that her car should  have been of satisfactory quality when  sold. 
Here she is relying on relevant provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA). 
The CRA says that under  a contract to supply  goods, there is an implied  term that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account 
any description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car, the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage, and price. Mrs Fs car was first registered in 2008,  it had over 
60,000 miles on the clock  and she paid around £5,000 for it. I think,  given all of the 
circumstances, I dont  think  any reasonable person would expect the car to be in pristine 
condition like a new car. Rather they would expect the car to have some wear  and tear. The 
expert has told us that the car is not fault free. But it has also said, the faults  have most likely  
been caused by wear  and tear.
Mrs F thinks it seems  that because the car had a problem immediately after she bought it 
that means there  has been a breach of contract. However, I dont see it like that. Wear and 
tear problems can, and do, crop up with older second-hand cars at any time even straight 
after purchase.  
The expert talks about  the methodology it used to test the car. I have no reason  to doubt it 
did follow this approach and it seems  to me this was a robust approach.  The expert  is also 
an expert in testing cars. Mrs F is not. She may not think the way it tested the car did not go 
far enough. But I am satisfied that the expert has provided information  that I can rely on. In 
other words I dont consider the test flawed as she does.
Ref: DRN02917373I accept Mrs Fs car may have the intermittent  fault that makes it go into limp mode. But the 
cause of that problem is most likely due to the wear and tear faults that the expert 
highlighted. It said this was possible reason. Although it also said the limp mode fault didnt 
happen when  it tested the car.
Mrs Fs car is not fault free. That may be why the expert told her not to drive it until it was 
repaired. But the point is this, the mere fact that a second hand car has a fault does not 
automatically mean that car is not of satisfactory  quality.  
For the reasons  I have  gone through I dont agree, on balance, the fault the expert identified  
means the car was not of satisfactory quality.  It follows that I dont agree there has been a 
breach of contract.  Therefore I cant fairly and reasonably ask Barclays to do anything  
further.
If now, on reflection. Mrs F wants to accept the £100  Barclays have offered, she will need to 
contact it directly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0291737