K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt process his chargeback  claim.
background
Mr D had two contracts  with a merchant  which Ill call P. They were for phone  and 
broadband services at two different  addresses, one of which  was where Mr D was living.  Mr 
D says he made upfront  payments  to P at the time he entered into the contracts   one in 
October 2017 and one in December 2017.
In March 2018, Mr D moved  out of the address where he had been  living.  He says he asked 
P to transfer the contract for that address to a different  address.  But he says P cancelled  
both contracts instead, without his permission.
Mr D wants both payments to be refunded in full. He says he cant  get through to P on the 
phone and they havent been responding to his letters. In August 2018,  Mr D wrote to HSBC 
saying he wanted  to dispute  the payments. In October 2018 he wrote again,  saying  he 
wanted to make a Section 75 claim. 
HSBC responded  in November 2018. They explained that they couldnt make a claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act because the transactions  werent  paid for with a 
credit card. But they told him about the chargeback process and set out the timeframes for 
pursuing claims. They suggested that Mr D contact P direct.
Mr D decided he wanted to pursue  a chargeback claim and asked HSBC to do this. They  
said they needed supporting documentation, such as Ps terms and conditions and evidence  
of the payments made.  They also wanted to see evidence of Mr Ds correspondence  with P. 
HSBC say they didnt receive this information  from Mr D so they closed their file.
Mr D was unhappy that HSBC hadnt pursued  the claim, so he brought  a complaint to this 
service. He said he had provided the information which  HSBC  were asking for. During the 
investigation by this service, HSBC  accepted  that they had delayed  in responding to Mr Ds 
initial letters and offered to pay him compensation of £100.  But they said they still hadnt  
received the information they needed  from Mr D in order to pursue  a chargeback claim. 
Mr D says he re-sent documents several times.  HSBC did receive them in the end but said 
they couldnt dispute the transactions because the time limits under the chargeback scheme 
had expired. 
Our investigator thought that HSBC  had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do anything else.  
But Mr D didnt agree  and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary process which is run by the card scheme, not HSBC.  Customers  
arent automatically entitled to a chargeback and HSBC dont have to attempt it just because  
a customer asks them to. But Id expect them to try if theres  good  reason to do so. When 
considering a chargeback request, HSBC are bound by the rules of the card scheme.  They 
Ref: DRN07147992arent obliged  to submit  a claim if they dont think the case fits within  the rules, or if they think 
the claim is unlikely to be successful. 
The time limits for requesting a chargeback  are set out in the card scheme rules and have to 
be followed  strictly. Here,  HSBC say they had expired so they werent able to submit  the 
claims. Their letter  to Mr D in May 2019 said they only have 120 days from the service 
delivery date to dispute the transactions. They also sent an email saying that this period 
cant exceed 540 days from the date the transactions were processed  (essentially  the 
payment dates).  I dont  have all the information  needed to know what  the service delivery 
dates for the contracts were. But, based  on what Mr D has said, I find it likely that the time 
limits had expired  by the time HSBC received his documents.
I realise that Mr D made several attempts to send the information  to HSBC. But, from the 
information available to me, I think its likely  that he would have been out of time for a 
chargeback claim even if HSBC had received  the documents on the first occasion he says 
he sent them. And even if it had been  in time, I still dont think HSBC  would have been 
obliged to submit the claim. Ill explain why.
The card scheme rules set out the supporting documentation needed  for a chargeback to be 
processed. And they say that, before HSBC can process a chargeback, Mr D must have 
attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant. I havent  seen any information about  
why P wouldnt refund  the payments. I realise that Mr D says hes tried to contact P without 
success. But overall, I dont think the information  Mr D has provided contains the sort of 
detail Id expect  to see for a chargeback to be successful  not just about  his attempts to 
resolve the dispute, but also details of the contracts, payments made and communications  
with P. So I dont think HSBC would have  been obliged to attempt the chargeback anyway.
 
Its worth  noting that chargebacks are decided on the basis  of the card schemes rules, not 
the merits of the dispute between the customer  and the merchant. So, even if Mr D has good 
grounds for a claim against P (which isnt what Im looking at here), it doesnt necessarily 
follow that his claim  for a chargeback would be successful.
In conclusion, I think it was reasonable that HSBC  didnt  submit the claim to the card 
scheme. I think  they could  have  responded to Mr Ds initial  letters more quickly.  But theyve 
apologised for that and offered compensation of £100. I think  thats fair so Im not going to 
ask them  to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0714799