K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) when 
his boiler broke down.
background
Mr D has a HomeCare Two policy with BG which provides cover  for his boiler, controls and 
central heating and provides an annual service.
On 17 January 2019, BG performed the annual service on his boiler. It needed  a new heat 
exchanger and this was fitted on 21 January.
On Thursday 31 January,  Mr D noticed  that the boiler had stopped  working overnight. He 
contacted BG and an engineers visit was booked for the following day.
 An engineer  attended at 11.00 on Friday 1 February and carried out a repair.  Unfortunately  
after the engineer left the boiler  broke  down again.  Mr D tried to call the engineer  who had 
visited earlier but after he was unable to contact him, he called  BG and explained  that his 
daughters health  made her vulnerable and he needed a priority appointment.
Mr D says BG confirmed that an engineer would attend again before 20.00.  At 18.00 the 
engineer called to say he was on his way. When he didnt arrive,  Mr D called BG at 19.30 
and was again told that the engineer was on his way. When the engineer still hadnt arrived 
by 20.30. Mr D phoned BG again  and was told the appointment had been cancelled  and had 
been rescheduled for the following  day. Mr D says BG gave him another priority appointment 
with a commitment to an engineers visit before 06.00 on 2 February.  However an engineer  
arrived at 23.00  on 1 February  and left at 23.30  with the boiler  working.
On Saturday 2 February, Mr D woke to find the boiler had stopped again. He was given 
another priority appointment and an engineer arrived at 09.00.  He changed the printed circuit 
board and left at 10.00 with the boiler working  again. 
At 11.00 the boiler broke  down again. Mr D contacted the engineer  who had visited earlier 
that morning who told him that a part was needed  which would have to be ordered and 
therefore wouldnt be available  until the following Monday, 4 February. It would need to be 
obtained from a supply depot  in Leicester,  which  was a long distance from Mr Ds home. BG 
said it would  cost a fortune to courier it on a Saturday/Sunday and wasnt  something it 
would do.
On 04 February 2019, Mr D was told that the part had arrived  but was incomplete and so 
couldnt be fitted. After  Mrs D phoned  BG, BG established that the part could in fact be fitted.  
The appointment went ahead and the repair was completed.  
Mr D says that BG agreed  to give him compensation at various  points, culminating in an 
offer of £110 compensation which it says factored in all the inconvenience  Mr D 
experienced. Mr D has rejected this, but BG confirmed its the most it can offer him.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with the level of service  hed received  from BG and the fact that hed 
been without hot water and heating from Thursday to Monday with a child with a health 
condition. BG accepts that Mr D had experienced two broken appointments, two 
unproductive appointments and associated  inconvenience.  It said that it wouldve expected  
Ref: DRN03093452the parts to have been fitted at the visit on 1 February and everything working by 3 February.  
But it said it wasnt able to offer him more than £110 compensation. BGs records  show that 
this sum was paid to Mr D on 12 February  2019.
Dissatisfied with BGs response  to his complaint about the service  hed received, Mr D 
brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered that BG had responded 
within reasonable timescales, and that its offer of £110 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr D doesnt agree with our investigators view, and has asked that his complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Ds complaint 
and Ill explain why.
I should start by saying  that I can fully appreciate the inconvenience and discomfort that Mr 
D and his family experienced following the breakdown of their boiler.  But I have to consider 
whether what BG did to put things right was reasonable or not in the circumstances.
On 1 February, when  a BG engineer attended for the first time, the visit was an unsuccessful 
one as the boiler broke down again  shortly afterwards. Mr D couldnt  contact the original 
engineer and had to chase BG for a second  visit. Although the scheduled arrival times 
werent met, and he was told that a scheduled visit was cancelled,  a second engineer did 
arrive at 23.00, according to Mr Ds timeline,  and got the boiler working again.
Unfortunately this was also an unproductive visit as the boiler broke down again, but another 
BG engineer attended at 09.00 the following morning and got it working again. But this was 
also an unproductive visit, as the boiler then broke  down yet again and so the engineer 
ordered a new part. As this was a Saturday, the part wouldnt be available  until the following 
Monday as it had to come from a depot  some considerable distance away.  I dont think  that 
its unreasonable for a part not to be immediately available.  It would  be available  the next 
working day.
Mr D then says that on 4 February BG told him that the part was missing  an element and so 
it wouldnt be able to fit it until the following day. But after Mrs D had phoned BG and 
reminded it that their daughter had a health condition,  BG was able to say that the part could 
in fact be provided and fitted that same  day. I cant speculate as to why BG was able to 
provide a part that same day when it had earlier told Mr D that it couldnt. 
I dont think that BGs response times were unreasonable. Mr D received two visits the day 
after his initial call on 31 January,  and one visit the following day. A part that was ordered on 
a Saturday was supplied and fitted on the next working day. 
However I agree with Mr D that there were some service failings by BG. In particular, 
engineers couldnt be contacted, appointments werent met at the scheduled times, and 
information given  to Mr D wasnt  necessarily correct. I think that its appropriate that he 
receive some compensation for the fact that he had to keep chasing BG for engineers to visit 
and to ensure  that his case was treated as a priority. As to how much is reasonable in the 
Ref: DRN03093453circumstances, BG says that it cant offer more than £110, and Mr D doesnt think  this is 
enough. 
Whilst I accept  that Mr D wouldve been  very concerned to get his boiler fixed as soon as 
possible, and particularly because of concern for his daughters health, I think  that the 
compensation that BG has offered is reasonable in the circumstances.  The trouble and 
upset experienced  by Mr D was confined to a short period of time,  and BG did attend three 
times in 24 hours to attempt to fix the boiler. I dont  think that its reasonable to require BG to 
pay compensation for the fact that it wasnt able to obtain  a part on a Saturday,  which  
delayed the final repair until the following Monday.  I think £110 is reasonable to reflect  the 
inconvenience Mr D experienced from BGs engineers not attending until 1 February, not 
attending on scheduled times  for the second  visit needed on that date, and for three visits 
being necessary  before  the cause of the problem was identified.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint  and I dont require  
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0309345