K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund him for two 
transactions he didnt  authorise.
background
Mr H found two transactions  on his Halifax account  he didnt authorise.  On 13 August 2018 
hed been debited £119.70  and £95.75  for transactions made with his debit card.  He didnt 
know what these were  for and complained to Halifax.
Halifax immediately refunded the disputed  transactions.  They  then, in line with card scheme  
rules, attempted chargebacks with the two merchants involved. Both merchants submitted 
identical data to confirm  Mr H had ordered  goods  from them  and these were delivered  to his 
home address on 15 August 2018. Mr H didnt  agree this had happened. As Halifax re-
debited Mr Hs account and wouldnt consider  the transactions  to be unauthorised,  Mr H 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included considering Mr Hs online banking  
logins to see whether  the IP addresses matched those used to make  the two purchases.  He 
also researched the two merchants who seemed to no longer exist.  Overall he found Mr Hs 
testimony persuasive and felt it was likely hed not authorised the two transactions.  He asked 
Halifax to repay Mr H, add 8% simple interest  to the transactions and pay an additional £150 
for the delays.
Halifax didnt agree with this outcome.  They felt it was just as likely that Mr H had authorised  
the two transactions and received the goods.  They asked an ombudsman  to consider the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Halifax is right to say that Mr H could well have authorised  the transactions. He could then 
have received two lots of goods   which from the descriptions seem  to be identical.  In that 
case he must have then lied to Halifax about  what happened.
I agree  it is possible this is what happened. But on the balance  of probabilities I dont agree 
thats what did happen. I say this because  of the following:
Transactions were placed within a minute  of each other  for two lots of seemingly 
identical goods with merchants using all the same paperwork  (as seen in Halifaxs 
evidence about the chargebacks). Both merchants coincidentally  operate  from the 
same overseas location and both were sending  him the same items.
Mr H has no history of buying  these items. His testimony about  this seems 
convincing to me.
Ref: DRN06876972Both businesses no longer seem to have active websites. 
This is exactly  the type of product we see being used by companies offering 
supposed free-trials  and then signing customers up to continuous payment 
authorities.
It seems  unlikely  to me that either item were  ever delivered. Although both merchants 
provided detailed  information to say where  the items were  left, neither document 
mentions the delivery company used.
Even if Mr H had decided to buy one lot of product, Im not sure I see the logic of him 
really trying  to buy two lots of identical products.
Even if Mr H had mistakenly ordered two lots of the goods and had received them he 
could just as easily have returned  one and claimed a refund through  the relevant  
distance selling legislation. I suspect Mr H didnt go done  this route because hed 
never ordered the goods in the first place.
I absolutely accept the data provided to Halifax by the merchants matches information about 
Mr H, including his email  and mobile  phone details.  I have to say, however, its not difficult to 
harvest this information  if youre fraudsters masquerading as merchants.
The relevant  legislation  here is the Payments Services Regulations. If Mr H didnt authorise 
or make the transactions, he cant be held liable for them. Taking  all the evidence  into 
account I dont  believe Mr H made or authorised  these payments. 
Halifax will need to refund the two amounts; add 8% simple  interest  from the date he was re-
debited until the date of settlement and also pay him £150 for the inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax to:
Refund Mr H £215.45 (£119.70 and £95.75) for the unauthorised payments;
Add 8% simple interest from the date his account was re-debited until the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Mr H £150 for the inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0687697