K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2001. Miss E says Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Miss E took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Es case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss E says that she was pressured  in to taking out the PPI, and that she was made to feel 
that it was compulsory in order to go ahead  with getting the credit.  I cant know  what was 
said to Miss E at the time  and shes not said much about why she felt this way either.  So I 
have to base my decision on the information  I do have. FICL has provided a copy of Miss Es 
store card application   and I can see that the policy is presented as optional, and Miss E 
has signed to select it  this is separate to her signature for the store  card. Theres nothing  
on the application that suggests that the policy is compulsory, or that an application including 
PPI would be more  likely  to be accepted.  And I dont have enough to say that Miss E was 
pressured in to taking out the PPI. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think that FICL did enough  to show that the PPI was 
optional  and Miss E chose to take it out, but I can understand  why she may not remember  
this as it was so long ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss E so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss E got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss E about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss E has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN05072512my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0507251