K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Europ Assistance S.A. (EA) has declined part of his claim under his 
travel insurance policy when he had to cancel a holiday because of illness.
background
Mr T had purchased a holiday  with his wife abroad  and took out travel insurance  with EA to 
cover it. Unfortunately,  four days before they were  due to travel, Mr T became ill with kidney 
stones. He obtained medical advice  privately,  and was advised not to travel. He submitted a 
claim to EA for the hotel and travel  costs hed paid for. These amounted  to approximately  
£4,000.
Mr T also claimed approximately £2,300 for the costs he incurred  in getting medical advice 
as to whether  or not hed be well enough to travel.  Mr T says that in incurring this expense  
he was fulfilling his obligation under his policy. He refers to the following term:
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS  APPLICABLE TO ALL SECTIONS
5. You must take all reasonable steps  to avoid or minimise any loss or damage  likely 
to give rise to a claim under this policy. You must act as if you are not insured.
Mr T then went on to incur a further £7,000  or so on medical treatment.  He hasnt claimed  for 
this.
EA has reimbursed Mr T for his cancelled hotel and travel costs.  But its declined  his claim 
for the costs of his medical  assessment.  Its referred  to a term of his policy  which states:
EMERGENCY MEDICAL  AND REPATRIATION EXPENSES
What you are covered  for:
 If, during  your trip, you become ill or sustain  a bodily  injury we will pay up to the 
amount shown in the summary  of cover for costs incurred outside  your home country  
that have been authorised by the emergency assistance company for
What you are NOT covered for
3. any treatment, investigations or tests in a private  hospital or private clinic unless 
authorised and agreed by us:
4. treatment which takes place within your home  country:
EA has said that the general condition stating that an insured person must take steps  to 
minimise any loss applies to the whole policy, and that it expects insured persons to mitigate  
the cost to their insurer wherever possible.  However, it points out that Mr Ts policy 
purchased specifically excludes cover  for private medical expenses incurred outside of an 
insured persons trip and in his home country.  The policy  doesnt  include private  medical
Insurance.
Mr T says that EAs analysis is literal  and flawed. He says the costs  hes claiming werent 
medical treatment costs. They were for a professional opinion as to whether he could carry 
on with holiday travel and prevent  an unnecessary  insurance claim. He says its 
unreasonable for EA to asses it as a claim for medical costs and to deny the claim by 
assessing it under a section of the policy that deals with medical claims and benefits. 
Ref: DRN00592892Mr T wasnt satisfied  with EAs response to his complaint and referred  it to this service. Our 
investigator considered  that EA hadnt acted unfairly as it was acting  in accordance  with the 
terms of the policy. Mr T doesnt  agree with our investigators view and has asked that his 
complaint be considered  by an ombudsman. His complaint has therefore been  referred  to 
me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Ts complaint 
and Ill explain why.
I can appreciate the disappointment that Mr T will have experienced in having to cancel his 
holiday. His disappointment will only be the greater as hed sought advice, at some cost, as 
to whether he needed to cancel it.
I have to consider  whether EA has acted  fairly  and reasonably in the circumstances of Mr Ts 
claim. 
I think that the policy wording that EA has referred  Mr T to, and which Ive quoted above, is 
clear. There  are two limbs to this. The policy doesnt  cover 
any treatment, investigations or tests  in a private hospital or private  clinic 
unless authorised and agreed  by us
treatment which  takes place within your home country
Mr T argues that what hes continuing to claim for wasnt medical treatment, but a 
professional opinion as to whether he could carry  on with his holiday. He says he went  on to 
spend £7,000 on actual  treatment. So I dont think that EA can rely on the second limb 
above, as that specifically  refers  to treatment.
But Ive seen the invoices that Mr T has provided  which total £2,021,  and cover the following:
2/2/18 GP appointment £100
2/2/18 Pathology £ 85
2/2/18 CT scan £713
2/2/18 Consultation £200
6/2/18 CT scan £923
I think that these consultations and tests  fall within the first limb mentioned  above in that they 
were investigatory. The cost of having  these  done  privately without the prior authorisation or 
agreement of EA is excluded from the cover  provided by the policy.
Although Ive considered the clause  that EA relies  on to decline Mr Ts claim, I dont think its 
relevant to this situation. Its heading says what its intended  to cover  Emergency Medical  
and Repatriation Expenses -  and it relates  to illness or injury  during a trip. At the time Mr T 
incurred these expenses, his trip hadnt started. And any expenses  need to be authorised. 
Theres no other section of the policy that covers medical costs incurred before a trip starts.
I should therefore address Mr Ts argument  that he was acting prudently in seeking  medical  
advice in order to avoid the need to make  a cancellation claim.  If the medical advice  hed 
received was that he could safely travel, and he hed done so and not made a cancellation 
Ref: DRN00592893claim, could  he have claimed the cost of this medical advice under his policy? I think  the 
answer to that is no. The policy  isnt a private  health insurance policy.  In that case, theres  
no ground for claiming it in circumstances where  he continued to make  a claim for 
cancellation. Mitigation of claims for cancellation usually involves the insured person 
cancelling their trip when  it first becomes likely  that a cancellation may be necessary.  A 
delay in cancellation will usually  involve  a bigger claim, as prepaid costs usually become 
100% non-refundable the closer one gets to the departure date.
Mr Ts obligation  under his policy was to take all reasonable steps  to avoid or minimise any 
loss or damage likely to give rise to a claim under  this policy.  I think  a reasonable step 
wouldve been to have contacted EA and asked for its advice, and whether it was willing  to 
pay for a medical opinion  which  mightve  avoided a cancellation claim. I dont consider that it 
was a reasonable step to obtain such an opinion privately and claim it under his policy.  
So for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think that EA has acted unreasonably in these 
circumstances, and Im not going  to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0059289