K820x#14complaint
Mr M on behalf of S, which is a limited company, has complained  that Paymentsense 
Limited (Paymentsense) misrepresented a merchant services agreement. Mr M wants the 
contract to be cancelled. 
background
Mr M has told us that he had a phone  call and email  contact with a representative from 
Paymentsense before he was sent an agreement to sign. 
Mr M says that the costs  he was given during the phone  call and email contact were different 
to the actual costs  he then signed up for. Mr M electronically signed  agreements to hire a 
payment card terminal and the related processing services with Paymentsense  in 
January 2019.  Paymentsense also brokered a finance agreement through a different 
company for the hire of a card terminal.
Mr M complained to Paymentsense who didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint,  but made an offer 
to reduce the monthly cost of the service.  Mr M was still unhappy with Paymentsenses  
response so he referred the complaint to our Service. 
Our investigator has explained  that our service  cant consider the brokering of the card 
terminal agreement.  In summary,  the relevant law and regulations  say that for a hire 
agreement to be a regulated activity it needs to be entered into by a hirer who is an 
individual or a relevant recipient of credit . 
A relevant recipient  of credit includes certain sizes  of partnership and other unincorporated 
groups of people.  It doesnt include limited companies. This means that the card terminal 
agreement is not a regulated consumer hire agreement because S isnt an individual  and 
doesnt meet  the definition of a relevant  recipient of credit.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint be upheld. To summarise, she found 
that Mr M would have been aware of the costs involved  before  signing the agreement. 
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators findings so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
My decision  will only deal with the merchant services agreement  with Paymentsense and not 
the terminal hire agreement that was with a different business. Our investigator  has also 
explained to Mr M what its options  are if he wants to make a complaint about the card 
terminal agreement.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In situations where there is lack of or 
incomplete evidence  Ive to decide  what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
 based on the available  evidence.
Unfortunately no call recordings  are available so I cant say what  was discussed over the 
phone. Ive seen a copy of an email that Mr M was sent by a Paymentsense representative 
following their telephone call. 
Ref: DRN01751662Mr M says his understanding  was the costs  stated were his only monthly costs. 
Paymentsense have  said The email itself contains  basic information and did not outline  all 
of the details and pricing  which were later included  in the agreements  you signed. The email 
also makes reference to the cost of the card terminal  per month  which  Im not considering 
as part of this decision. I think that the email  outlines  some  of the costs, not all of them  but 
that there  are other costs  involved. 
Mr M told us their  sales rep gave me strict instructions  over the phone to call him as soon 
as I receive the electronic contract  so that he could guide me through  it The audit  trail  
that is a screenshot of Paymentsenses  records of what documents were electronically sent 
to Mr M, shows that Mr M was sent the agreement  and viewed it at 11.59am and then 
electronically signed it at 12.03pm.  
I think that Mr M would  have reasonably been  aware that there  were  some fees or costs 
before receiving the agreement. Mr M has also told us that before he used Paymensense he 
used a different  business for this type of service that didnt require a contract. So I think its 
fair to say that Mr M would have reasonably been  aware that there were some  costs for this 
type of service. 
Mr M had an opportunity to review  all of the cost information before signing the agreement 
and, as he was committing  to a relatively long term financial commitment this was important 
information that he needed  to be aware of. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr M has said about not reading the agreement because of 
the earlier email it received outlining some monthly costs.  But in my opinion,  the email  gives 
an overview of some  of the costs but not a detailed breakdown of all the costs.  
The agreement sent to Mr M - Merchant  Services Agreement has a section titled:  2. Bolt-
Ons - Billed  per stated terms by Paymentsense that provides a breakdown of the costs that 
Mr M was agreeing to. In my opinion, I think the costs were made sufficiently clear on the 
agreement before Mr M electronically signed  it - directly  below  where the costs are stated.  
Ive also clarified with Paymentsense that these bolt-ons are optional and could be 
cancelled at any point.  
Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr M was put under pressure to quickly sign the 
agreement by Paymentsense. Mr M has said he was told to call the sales  representative 
when he received the contract but he thinks this was done  so that he wouldnt take note of 
the contract  length  and additional  charges.
Ive carefully considered  this, but if the costs shown on the agreement were  different to what  
Mr M had expected based on the email hed received, he had the option of further  clarifying 
this with the sales representative over the phone  before he signed the agreement. 
Mr M has said that the adviser  explained  to him (during the second phone call) how to 
access the electronic  contract but that he had no reason  not to trust him as hed received the 
email Ive referred to that Mr M felt contained all the relevant costs. As Mr M was committing  
to a relatively long term, significant financial commitment he had a responsibility to read what  
he was agreeing to. 
I fully appreciate that this wont be the outcome that Mr M wanted but I thank him for the time 
and effort  that hes put into this complaint. 
Ref: DRN01751663Ive also noted  that Mr M has referred  us to internet  reviews of Paymentsense and another 
ombudsmans decision as part of this complaint. 
Our Service considers  each complaint  on its own merits and having carefully considered  all 
of the evidence - including all of Mr Ms extensive comments, all of which I havent 
addressed individually in my decision,  Ive not seen evidence that Paymentsense  did 
anything wrong  in this particular  case and I dont require it to do anything further. 
Paymentsense has made a goodwill gesture to lower some  of the monthly  fees. Its not clear 
if Mr M accepted this offer or not. Our investigator  has also made Mr M aware that 
Paymentsense are prepared to accept a fee of £588.24 instead of the full amount as outlined  
in the terms and conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint and Paymentsense  are making an offer to terminate the 
contract for less than what they could charge under the contract terms. Mr M still has this 
option available to him and can contact Paymentsense if he wishes to.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
the limited company, S, to accept or reject my decision before 16 November  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0175166