K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account  (URCA) packaged  bank account to them in 2008. 
background
One of our adjudicators has looked at this complaint and didnt  think BOS had mis-sold the 
URCA. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mr and Mrs W. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Mr and Mrs W have  confirmed that they held free accounts prior to this upgrade  and 
therefore I think that they would have known that free accounts existed and were  an option 
for them. Mr and Mrs W have specifically explained that they were told that in order to have 
a joint account  that they would need to have the URCA. But I can see that they held a joint 
fee free account in 2007 prior to the upgrade so I am not persuaded that this is what  they 
were told, or that they would have found it plausible  if this was what they were  told. I note 
that Mr and Mrs W dispute opening  this fee free account but based on what I have been  
provided I am satisfied  that a fee free account was opened by them prior to the URCA being  
taken out. Therefore overall having  considered  everything I think  that its more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs W agreed to the URCA knowing that that they did not have to.
When Mr and Mrs W agreed to the URCA a couple of the main  benefits it included were  
mobile phone insurance,  breakdown cover, travel insurance, home emergency cover and 
preferential overdraft terms.  Mr and Mrs W have said they did not need  these benefits as 
they were already covered  elsewhere.  But I can see that they registered  a number of 
handsets under the mobile phone insurance and they contacted the travel insurance 
provider. This suggests Mr and Mrs W at the very least intended to use these  insurances.
Mr and Mrs W have  said that due to a medical condition  Mr W was not covered under the 
travel insurance but all BOS could  do during  the sale is highlight that Mr and Mrs W would 
need to contact the insurer to declare their medical  conditions. Mr and Mrs W did seem to 
contact the insurer  within a month of the upgrade then I think that is likely that they were 
made aware  of this need. I can see that the contact note with the insurer said that Mr and 
Mrs W called  to declare medical  conditions  though  goes on to say that the department in 
question was closed  and that Mr and Mrs W would call again, though it does not seem as if 
they did. So given  this I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs W were aware of their need  to declare 
conditions even if it seems that they were never declared.
Overall I think  Mr and Mrs W were eligible for and couldve used some of the main  benefits 
of the URCA.  So while  Im open  to the possibility they might  not have been told everything 
they needed to about all the ins and outs of the URCA, I do think  they received enough to 
Ref: DRN01461352know and understand what they were agreeing to and I cant see anything specific that they 
were not told that I think wouldve altered their decision  to take out the account.
Mr and Mrs W may now, with the benefit of hindsight,  think  they shouldnt have upgraded. 
And given  what they mightve read about  packaged  accounts in general, I can understand 
why they believe  their URCA mightve been  mis-sold. But I think Mr and Mrs W chose to take 
the URCA having a decent appreciation of what it included. So I want to reassure Mr and 
Mrs W that having looked at all the information provided and thought about everything 
theyve said, I dont  think BOS mis-sold  the URCA to them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 August  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0146135