K822xcomplaint
Mr D complained about the service he received from Platform  Funding Ltd.
Mr D needed to transfer his buy-to-let mortgage from joint names  into his sole name.  He said
he experienced delays and poor service from Platform, and found it extremely stressful.
background
Mr D and his wife split up. Their joint residential  property and buy-to-let properties had to be
sorted out. The residential property and one of the buy-to-let properties had mortgages with
Platform. These were to be transferred from joint names into Mr Ds sole name, which is
called a transfer of equity.
In summer  2018, Mr D had a fact-finding discussion with Platform. He wasnt  happy about
Platforms communication  after that. For example, the form Platform  sent for Mr D to
complete was blank,  though hed already supplied information during the fact-finding
discussion. But the residential transfer  went ahead, and this complaint is just about  the
buy-to-let transfer.
Mr D initially discussed the buy-to-let transfer in July, and said he wanted  this done at the
same time as the residential one. He got in touch about going  ahead at the start of October.
At the 2 October appointment, Platform agreed  it could  use the personal and income details
which Mr D had supplied for the residential  transfer.  It told Mr D it would send out an
application pack in the next 10 days.
But Platform  didnt do this. Mr D rang to chase on 18 October, and was told no-one was
available and hed be called back.  This didnt happen and Mr D chased again on 26 October.
He rang again  on 4 December and 6 December. He was frustrated with the call waiting
times, and the fact that he hadnt  had calls returned.
Mr Ds separation agreement had been planned  to be sorted out by the end of December.
Part of this agreement was that his ex-wife would  no longer be on various jointly-held
properties. But this deadline wasnt met, so the separation  agreement  had to be changed  to
say the transfers  would be done  before the end of the tax year in April.
Mr Ds residential mortgage transferred to his sole name on 4 January 2019.
Mr D rang Platform again on 6 February,  to check some details of the account. He wanted to
confirm the mortgage had been  transferred into his sole name - but it hadnt.  Only the
residential mortgage had been  done. Mr D was angry that the transfer hadnt been done.  He
was also upset because  Platform  hadnt given him an email address or direct  line numbers
as a way of getting in touch with Platform. He complained.
The next day, Platform sent Mr D the application  form for the buy-to-let mortgage.  Mr D rang
Platform when he received it, but experienced long call wait times - he told the agent hed
had to wait 23 minutes  to be connected.  Mr D chased progress again  on 19 February.  He
told the agent hed had to change his separation agreement because  of the transfer
problems.
Mr D chased again and an offer was issued on 5 March.
Ref: DRN00461482On 19 March, Platform responded to Mr Ds complaint. It apologised for not having sent the
application pack after the 2 October  phone call, and not having acted until Mr D chased  in
February. But it said that it had phoned Mr Ds solicitors the day before, 18 March, and the
solicitors had said they werent ready  to complete by 28 March,  and would need  a
replacement offer. Platforms final response letter also said it couldnt investigate the phone
waiting times  Mr D had experienced, so it said it would give him the benefit of the doubt
about what hed said. Platform  said that it was still reviewing whether to implement email
correspondence with customers.
Platform offered Mr D £250 compensation for not processing his transfer application in
October, and for the long waiting and hold times. It also said it would consider any evidence
Mr D might supply  about additional charges from his solicitor.  Mr Ds conveyancer had told
Platform there werent any extra charges, because it was a fixed price agreement.
On 22 March Mr D rang again about the offer. He also complained because he said hed
overheard the phone  agent swearing, and he wanted an apology. Platform said its agent
hadnt sworn.
Mr D didnt accept the £250 compensation. He complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  She said Mr D hadnt provided any evidence
to show what extra charges hed incurred as a result of the delay. And she said shed seen
nothing to show that Mr Ds solicitor had been ready  to complete earlier than it actually did.
In relation to not being able to email Platform, the investigator told Mr D that this service
cant ask businesses to change how it chooses to operate. She felt £250 was fair
compensation.
Mr D wasnt satisfied. He said that yes, the conveyancing price had been a fixed fee, but
hed had to change his separation agreement because of the delay, and that had involved
his other  solicitor, not the conveyancer. He couldnt get his solicitor  to do a separate bill for
that change, and the whole set of transactions had involved lots of different matters. And
even if his solicitor said it had only been an extra half hour or so in charges, the point was
that it had been hugely  stressful.  The transfer had only eventually  completed on 2 April,
when the end of the tax year was just three  days  away.
Mr D also emphasised that Platform had been rude and unhelpful. He said that on one call,
the adviser had accidentally  left the line open,  which meant he had heard the adviser and a
colleague swearing  and saying that Mr D can [expletive] well wait. And the advisers had
then started talking about their weekends not about  his case. Platform had said it had
listened to the call and Mr D was mistaken  but it had then refused to email  the recording  to
him.
Mr D also pointed out that hed paid a £160  transfer fee for the buy-to-let property, and given
what had happened  £250 wasnt enough.  He believed Platform  was the worst mortgage
company, and said the businesses involved in his other buy-to-let transfers had been much
better. Mr D said he hadnt wanted to stay with Platform  anyway, but the mortgage had such
a large early  repayment  charge that hed felt he had to.
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN00461483I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
I also asked Platform for the recording of the call where Mr D said Platforms phone  adviser
had been rude, but Platform had said Mr D had mis-heard.
In my provisional decision,  I considered  the different elements of Mr Ds complaint 
separately.
Delay
Platform should have  started the application process  for the transfer  of Mr Ds buy-to-let
mortgage in October. I didnt have the relevant call recordings, but I considered it was highly 
likely that Mr D would have told Platform at the outset that he wanted both his residential and 
his buy-to-let mortgage to be transferred into his sole name at the same time. And it was 
clear from Platforms records that it should have sent out the application forms in October. 
Instead Platform did nothing until Mr D asked the specific question on 6 February. It wasnt 
as if Mr D had been  out of touch in the meantime  as Ive set out in the chronology above, 
hed phoned  on a number of occasions.
Platform didnt need any extra information to decide  about transferring the buy-to-let
mortgage than it had for the residential one. There had been  discussions about the number
of buy-to-let properties which Mr D owned, but this had been resolved in July 2018 by Mr D
paying off the mortgage  on one of the other  properties and transferring ownership of that one
property to his ex-wife as part of the settlement. So I found there had been  no reason why 
Mr Ds buyto-let mortgage offer couldnt have  been processed and issued at the same time 
as his residential one, if only Platform had processed the application promptly.
I noted that Mr Ds solicitor wasnt ready to complete the buy-to-let transfer by 28 March 
2019. But I didnt  consider  this meant  that it couldnt have completed earlier,  if Platform had 
issued the offer before 5 March.
I considered the dispute about extra solicitor costs which the delay may have caused.  I
accepted that when  Platform spoke  to Mr Ds conveyancer, it was told the conveyancing was
on a fixed fee basis, so the delay didnt cost Mr D more in conveyancing fees.
But I also accepted  that there could have been implications for the wider group of 
transactions involving the separation and multiple  properties. Mr D said his solicitors  had to 
make changes to the separation agreement, in order for it to provide  for the properties  to be
transferred before the end of the financial year, rather than before the end of December. I
understood that it would  be expensive and not very practical to get a solicitor to put in writing
how much  this relatively small alternation had cost. Mr D himself  mentioned  perhaps  half an
hours work,  so it wouldnt have  been  a very significant sum. I also noted that the residential
mortgage transfer, which Mr D isnt complaining about, didnt happen until 4 January  and
there might also have been  delays to the other  elements  of Mr Ds separation and complex
transactions, which didnt  involve  Platform. So I didnt intend to award more compensation 
for legal costs for changing  the separation  agreement. I did, however, consider stress
separately  see below.
Communication methods
Ref: DRN00461484Its correct that this service cant tell a business  how it should run  for example whether or
not Platform had to offer an email facility or direct line phone  number to customers.
But I noted Mr Ds frustration at not being  able to communicate easily with Platform. His only
communication option was to phone Platform, which involved long waiting times. Platform
told Mr D it couldnt investigate call waiting times, and it didnt send us any evidence about
this. So I accepted what Mr D told us, and that he had to wait a long time to be connected.
Mr D mentioned this many times, so it wasnt a one-off.  I could also see that Mr D rang
Platform many  times,  chasing  up what was happening. So it would  have been  very
frustrating to have  these delays when he wanted  answers, and explanations about  why
Platform hadnt properly  progressed the transfer  of his mortgage.  It wasnt  that he wanted
new things  he was just trying to chase Platform for what it should already have done. I
couldnt order Platform to provide the level of service which  Mr D said other lenders gave 
him, but I did recognise that the poor service  it provided meant that Mr D was upset and
frustrated.
Disputed phone call
I asked Platform to send  me the disputed phone recording for the time when  Mr D wasnt put
on hold while the Platform adviser spoke to a colleague.
I listened to the call. As Mr D said, Platform didnt cut off Mr Ds ability  to listen  to
what the advisers were  saying when it put him on hold. But I couldnt hear everything the
advisers were saying in the background, largely because Mr D regularly kept saying hello,
hello, hello  and thats much louder on the recording. From what  I could hear, the adviser
who took Mr Ds call was talking to someone more senior about what she would say to Mr D.
I didnt hear any discussion about  their weekends, or any swearing. I did hear the adviser
make some disparaging  comments: I dont understand  what this mans problem is; I dont
care what  he says or what he kicks off, Im going  to say.. (about the offer) and Ive got
other things  to do. These werent professional things to say, even though I recognised  the
adviser didnt know  her words were  being  recorded  and that Mr D could hear her.
Compensation
I found that Platforms  delays and poor customer service caused Mr D a lot of stress. To 
some extent, his situation - with a separation and multiple property  transactions to sort out  
was very stressful anyway. But I found that this was significantly  worsened  by Platforms 
failings.
Platform didnt need any extra information to process the buy-to-let transfer  application, so I
consider Mr D could reasonably have expected it to go through  in the same timescales as
his residential mortgage.  Im surprised that Mr D didnt get straight  on to Platform in early
January when his residential mortgage completed and his buy-to-let didnt. But that didnt
change the fact that Platform did nothing  between October and when Mr D did chase them  in
early February. Platform did get on with the buy-to-let transfer application reasonably
promptly after its mistake was realised   though it made another mistake listing a further
property which Mr D no longer had.
But by this stage  it was inevitable that Mr D would  be very close to the end of tax year
deadline. I accepted that this was a genuine deadline, not just one agreed between the
solicitors for Mr D and his ex-wife.
Ref: DRN00461485It would have been enormously stressful that completion was delayed until a few days of the
end of the tax year.  I didnt have  the full details  of Mr Ds tax affairs but could understand 
that there  could have  been significant implications for the tax positions of Mr D and his ex-
wife if this deadline had been  missed. And as Ive set out above, it made no difference that 
Mr Ds conveyancer wasnt ready to complete by 28 March, because  it was much more  likely 
that this issue wouldnt  have arisen  if the buy-to-let mortgage transfer offer had been  issued
significantly before  5 March. There could have  been  significant tax implications if Mr Ds
transfer hadnt gone through  in the tax year, so I find that Platforms  delays put Mr D under
significant extra stress. He met the deadline with three days  to spare.
I also found that the very poor call waiting  times  were unacceptable. Mr D needed to chase
Platform many  times,  and the poor service  was hugely frustrating. And as Ive set out above,
even though the disputed  call recording didnt show Platform swearing at Mr D or staff
discussing their weekends, it did show inappropriate comments  by Platform  staff.
Taking all these factors into consideration, I found that a fair and reasonable amount of
compensation would be £400.
responses to my provisional  decision
Platform accepted  my provisional decision.
Mr D didnt reply  by the date for responses to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Platform Funding  Ltd to pay Mr D £400 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046148