K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
Mrs O says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in November 1998.  The policy cost 
no more than 77p per £100  of the outstanding card balance and covered Mrs O in the event 
she wasnt working due to accident,  sickness or unemployment. Following a successful 
claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding  balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve 
months. The policy was cancelled in 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  Lloyds made it clear that Mrs O didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement that Mrs O signed in November 1998  
and I can see she chose to take out PPI. She ticked a box, under the heading  Optional  
Features to confirm  she wanted to purchase  PPI even though she didnt have to. And 
she decided not to take out other optional features that were  available. And as the PPI 
wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card statements, had it been added  to Mrs Os 
account without  either her knowledge  or her consent,  I wouldve expected  her to query 
this at some point in the first few months  after the account was opened.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs O so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   she 
told us she was employed  and in good health.  And although she had some cik pay form 
her employer, the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to this.
Mrs Os representative told us she may have been on maternity leave at the time the 
policy was purchased. Although weve asked, on several occasions, for any evidence to 
support this, none has been  forthcoming.  So Ive not been  able to take this into 
consideration.
Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN03080352Ive thought about everything Mrs O and her representative have said about  the sale of the 
PPI itself  but these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0308035