K820x#14complaint
Mrs R is unhappy because AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) is declining her claim for storm 
damage under her home  insurance policy.
background
Following a storm in November 2018, Mrs R arranged for a third party  to clear the gutters  at 
her property. The third party made  Mrs R aware  that there was damage  to her roof. Before 
Mrs R was able to inspect  the alleged damage, she says there  was another storm. She soon 
noticed there was water  damage to the ceiling in the lounge which she believed  was a result 
of the damage  to the roof.
In January 2019, Mrs R arranged for a third party to inspect the damage and provide a quote 
for repairs. Mrs R contacted AXA about the damage  to the roof and told them  she intended 
for the repairs to be carried out the following day. AXA advised Mrs R that if that happens 
before they are able to arrange  an assessment  of the damage,  this may impact  on any 
potential claim she later brings. Concerned for further anticipated bad weather, Mrs R told 
AXA she will proceed with the repairs. It was agreed  photos  would  be taken of the damage 
and sent to AXA to consider the claim.  
AXA told Mrs R they were  declining  the claim because they believed the damage was not 
caused by a storm but by general  wear  and tear and this is an excluded term of the policy. 
Mrs R was unhappy with their response  and said this could not be the case because the roof 
was replaced in 2007. She maintained the damage  was caused by the storms. Unhappy  with 
their response, Mrs R referred the complaint to our service. 
The investigator did not uphold the complaint  stating  the bad weather did not meet the 
definition of a storm as outlined by the terms of the policy.  She also said she did not believe 
the storm was the main  cause of the damage  so it was fair for AXA to decline the claim. 
Mrs R maintains the damage  was caused  by the storms and she wants  AXA to accept the 
insurance claim. So the case has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  not to 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint  and I will explain why.
When reviewing this complaint, Ive considered  the terms  of insurance policy and what it 
says about considering claims of storm damage. I must then decide whether I think AXA has 
fairly applied  these terms. 
In summary,  AXAs terms say they will consider the following factors when considering 
claims for storm  damage:
-if the weather  conditions meet  their definition of a storm;
-if the damage is consistent with that caused  by a storm;
-whether the storm was the main cause  of the damage.
if the weather conditions meet their definition of a storm
Ref: DRN01892492The terms of the policy define a storm as being  wind speeds of at least  55 mph or a 
torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour. Other factors are mentioned  such as 
snow and hail however Mrs R has not mentioned these elements were  a part of the storms 
in question.  
I have referred to weather reports for the area surrounding Mrs Rs property  around  the date 
in question. Records show during  the month  of November 2018 there were a few days  
where the wind speed ranged between 31 and 48 mph.  During this same  period, the rate of 
rainfall did not exceed over 11 mm per hour. Based  on the above, while I accept there  were  
conditions of bad weather,  I am not satisfied it meets the definition of a storm as defined  by 
the policy terms so the damage couldnt have been caused by a storm. 
Based on this, I am satisfied AXA has reasonably applied the terms of its policy and it was 
fair to decline Mrs Rs claim for storm damage.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  mentioned above,  I am not upholding  Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.  
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0189249