K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in November 2004  when  she was arranging  finance  to buy a car.
background
BoS explained that its records showed Miss T hadnt taken out any PPI with any of the 
accounts it held for her. It said both the loan and the PPI were sold by the garage where she 
arranged the car finance, Business A. BoS said it wasnt responsible  for the sale and so 
wouldnt be taking the complaint any further.  
We investigated the matter and our adjudicator agreed BoS wasnt  responsible. 
In my provisional decision dated  6 March 2019  I explained  why I didnt think BoS was 
responsible for the sale of PPI to Miss T. I set out an extract below:
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and at what Miss T says about how the policy  was 
sold to her. 
BoS has been able to give us copies of the sale documentation  it has relating to the finance 
and the PPI. Ive seen  the credit agreement  Miss T filled out for finance and also the PPI. 
The PPI is shown separately to the costs relating to the car she was purchasing,  but 
included in the final figure for the finance. Ive also seen a separate  application  form for the 
PPI, which  she signed and which was also signed by Business As representative. And Ive 
noticed that both forms were filled out on the same date. 
All of this strongly  suggests to me that Miss T made her decision to buy the PPI at the same 
time as she applied for the finance,  which is something thats likely to have happened when 
she attended Business  As premises. 
It follows that at this stage  I agree that BoS doesnt  appear to be responsible  for selling  
Miss T her PPI. So  unless I get any evidence to make me think otherwise - I intend to 
conclude that BoS isnt responsible for the PPI sale. It follows it also wasnt responsible for 
carrying out the sale properly. So Im intending  not to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint 
against BoS. 
my findings
Miss T confirmed shed received my provisional  decision  and accepts my findings. And BoS 
has also received  my provisional decision but doesnt have anything  to add. 
It follows that I will be making a finding in line with my provisional decision that BoS isnt 
responsible for the sale of the PPI to Miss T.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss T because: 
 BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss T about that. Because BoS didnt tell Miss T, 
that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN00809842 To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit  share  that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Miss T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Miss T any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
BoS should pay back to Miss T the extra  she paid each  month  because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. BoS should also pay Miss T 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss T can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland  plc isnt responsible 
for this sale.  And I dont  intend to uphold this complaint against it.   
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0080984