K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated him unfairly  in relation to a 
professional skills  course he took finance to pay for.
background
Mr B entered an agreement with a driving  school to go on driving skills training course  made 
up of modules of training and tests.  He paid for this course by entering a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Etika in December 2016 who paid the driving school for the course  with the 
loan advance. Mr B agreed to repay the loan to Etika over forty-eight monthly instalments. 
Mr B says the service  provided by the driving  school  wasnt  very good. He says the retest  
cover he was sold to cover any failed tests  wasnt any good. He feels hes been treated 
unfairly due to his disability. He thinks the outstanding debt should be written off.
So Mr B complained to Etika. Etika investigated the matter and told Mr B that it didnt feel 
that it had done anything  wrong and he still owed it money under the loan agreement.  Mr B 
didnt agree so he complained here.
The investigator felt part of the complaint should be upheld. Etika said it was willing  to refund 
two of the tests  and the retest cover but said Mr B should pay the remainder of the 
outstanding debt. Mr B doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In these particular  circumstances Mr B can bring a claim  under Section  75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. The general effect  of section 75 is that if Mr B has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  against  a supplier of goods or services, he can 
complain to the finance provider (Etika here).
It should be remembered throughout that this is a decision solely about Etika. It is not a 
decision about the driving school or any other party so I cannot pass comment on those 
other parties. Etika and what  it did or didnt do are the focus  of this decision.
I have considered the requirements of the legislation and the circumstances here. Etika 
doesnt dispute that a section 75 claim can be raised. As these circumstances sit within  the 
financial limits, the appropriate  relationship is in place and the other requirements have been 
met I think  this situation can be considered under section 75.
Ive reviewed the agreement and other information provided from when Mr B agreed to go on 
the driving skills course. For this complaint to be upheld I would have to be persuaded that 
either Mr B was materially misrepresented what the course was, and if he had been properly 
informed he wouldnt have entered the agreement. Or Id need  to be persuaded that there 
had been a breach of the agreement for which Etika is responsible.
Having considered everything  available (including  my findings  later in this decision)  Im 
satisfied Mr B wasnt misrepresented to regarding the central part of this course-specifically  
his learning specific  driving skills. Ive seen what the course aims to do and what  it requires  
Ref: DRN05158112of those attending the course. And I think, up to when  he stopped the course,  Mr B was 
getting the course he agreed to. For example I can see hed undertaken a number of 
sessions of training,  passed an initial test and had moved  on to the latter stages of the 
course. So I dont  think  Mr B was materially misrepresented to when deciding  to take on the 
driving course. And I think, had he continued with the training, hed have been provided with 
all the training and tests  he was due to receive.
Mr B has repeatedly referred  to receiving poor service. But I can see that he was allocated 
training sessions, which he attended and went on to pass  the initial test. I think  it unlikely that 
hed be able to pass such a practical test without proper practical training. He then had 
further practical training booked with a view the next stage of the course. I can see hes 
completed the majority of the overall course  provided. And, as Etika  has pointed out, Mr B 
has chosen not to complete the course  or try to pass  the final test. So Im not persuaded the 
practical training  wasnt sufficient.
Mr B points to part of the offering he bought originally which  provided  a free retest in the 
event of failing a test. Etika has offered to refund him the cost of this retest cover. Mr B has 
complained that this free retest element isnt clear  or fair. I can see from the history of events 
that this was a key issue in his not going  on to finish the whole course  and testing. But I can 
see Mr B has had the benefit  of this free retest and I can see that Etika has agreed to him 
not having to pay for it as well. It may be that S69 of the Consumer Rights Act is applicable 
here and that there is a breach here. But clearly Mr B doesnt wish to continue with the test 
or course,  and it wouldnt be practical to make  Etika  responsible for the tests performance 
now, all things considered. And as there  is the offer as Ive described on the table from Etika 
in this regard,  overall,  I think Etika has treated Mr B fairly on this aspect of this complaint.
Mr B feels  that all the debt should be written off. But clearly Mr B received a significant  
amount of practical  training  over a period of time from the driving school. And it must be 
remembered that Etika is a separate entity to the driving school and it was Etikas advance  
which paid for the training and testing  to be provided  to Mr B initially. So writing off the whole 
debt would be clearly  unfair on Etika in the circumstances. Just because Mr B doesnt want 
to continue with this training doesnt mean that Etika who lent him the money for it should 
suffer-that would be unfair.
Mr B has raised the very important issue of discrimination  here.  But I can see that from 
testimony provided that at the time of making the agreement his representative  was present. 
Ive also considered the documentation from the time Mr B took out the agreement  with Etika 
and what hes said in his written submission to Trading  Standards  about  the driving school. I 
can see in that submission Mr B has made a very clear distinction between  how the driving 
school treated him and how Etika treated him (well and helpfully). As a consequence of all of 
this Im not persuaded that Etika has discriminated against Mr B.
Mr Bs representative has also referred  to the extortionate finance deal that was agreed.  
But I can see from the agreement that the various costs and repayable amounts are made 
clear. I can see that Mr B has signed  the documentation and I can also see from the 
testimony provided to Trading Standards  that Mr B has a clear  understanding of the costs  of 
the agreement. Im not persuaded that there  are any hidden  extra  costs that werent in the 
finance agreement  being applied. So I think he entered  it fairly.  I also think Etika  has treated 
Mr B fairly in holding  Mr B liable for the agreement. After all he has had the benefit of the 
course being set up (and largely  delivered) which, so far, he hasnt paid Etika  back  for 
entirely.
Ref: DRN05158113Mr B also points towards the driving  schools related company going  into administration as 
evidence of wrongdoing. But this complaint  is about Etika and how it has treated  Mr B under 
the obligations it has and whether it has treated him fairly. This decision isnt about the 
driving school or any other party.
After our Investigator  put the matter to Etika, it has offered  to cover the cost of two re-tests at 
a cost of £115  each  and the £500 cost of the retest cover. I think  this is a fair solution to the 
situation all things considered. So the retest cover should be removed from the original credit  
agreement and the outstanding balance recalculated accordingly. And the test costs  should 
be refunded. Once it has done this it should write  to Mr B setting  out what  he then owes 
under the agreement.
Etika tells me that Mr B still owes it a significant amount of money under the agreement.  And 
I can see in the agreement Etika has told Mr B that under the agreement  it has the option of 
legal proceedings against Mr B and reporting missed payments  on his credit  file. Mr B 
should talk to Etika about how he can pay the outstanding balance promptly.
All in all having considered everything Mr B has said I think the suggested settlement offered 
as Ive described is a fair and reasonable solution  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons Etika Finance UK Limited  should remove the retest cover from the 
agreement (£500) and refund the two tests  (£115  each). It should  then write to Mr B setting 
out what the outstanding  balance is on his agreement. Once it has done  that it can pursue 
payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0515811