K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Ms H complain  Bradford  & Bingley plc mis-sold them a regular premium payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1990 when Mr G and Ms 
H were applying for a joint mortgage. The policy provided cover  if they couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr G and Ms H disagreed  with the
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G and Ms Hs case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that Bradford & Bingley recommended  the policy
to Mr G and Ms H, so the key question I need to consider is:
-Did Bradford & Bingley give Mr G and Ms H information that was clear, fair and not
misleading in order  to put them in a position where  they could make an informed
choice about the insurance they were  buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr G and Ms H are
worse off as a result. That is, would they have done  something different  such as not taking
out the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
I have concluded  that the policy  wasnt mis-sold  and Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mr G and Ms H say they were told they had to take the PPI to get the mortgage they
wanted. They say Bradford & Bingley didnt properly explain the cover.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr G and Ms H and 
Bradford & Bingley  when  the policy was sold. Im also mindful  that these events took place 
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But I note that the mortgage application Mr G and Ms H completed included  a section about 
PPI. It required them  to select the type of cover they wanted. They chose accident,  sickness  
and unemployment  cover and the form included a note saying Please send further details.
I also note that the same  section of the form says:
If cover  is NOT required,  please  indicate with a cross in the box.
Ref: DRN08629342So from what Ive seen,  I think it was clear from the application form that the PPI was
optional. As such,  I havent been able to safely conclude that Bradford & Bingley didnt
make Mr G and Ms H aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI.
Mr G and Ms H say Bradford & Bingley didnt explain what  the cover  was, so they didnt 
realise they couldve used it when Mr G became unemployed. Im sympathetic to the 
situation Mr G and Ms H were in when  Mr G lost his job. 
But as Ive already said,  I cant  be sure what was discussed between  Mr G and Ms H and 
Bradford & Bingley  when  the policy was sold. And as Mr G and Ms H had to choose the type 
of cover they wanted, I think its likely  there was some discussion about how the policy 
worked.
So even though Mr G and Ms H didnt claim  on the policy when Mr G became unemployed, 
Im not persuaded this meant it was mis-sold.
Mr G says he didnt need the policy because he was entitled to generous  benefits  from his
employer. Ms H has said she doesnt  remember how much employer sick pay she was 
entitled to. But Bradford  & Bingley didnt advise Mr G and Ms H about whether to take the 
policy, so it didnt have  to check whether it was suitable for them. That means  it didnt have 
to ask about any other means they had to cover  their mortgage repayments.
But even if Bradford & Bingley had advised Mr G and Ms H to take the policy, I dont  think Mr 
Gs employer benefits meant it was unsuitable for them. The policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to Mr Gs sick pay and would  do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place 
wouldve meant Mr G and Ms H couldve used Mr Gs employer sick pay to cover  other  
expenses. 
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr G and Ms H before
they agreed to buy it. So Ive thought  about  whether clearer cost information would have
affected their decision to buy the policy.
Mr G and Ms H took out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something  for it and
despite the sick pay Mr G says he was entitled  to. The policy  was competitively  priced  and
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made  a different decision if
better information about the cost had been  provided.
Mr G and Ms H satisfied  the eligibility  requirements of the policy  when taking it out. And their
circumstances dont  suggest they would  have been caught by any of the conditions limiting  
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting  self-employed people  or people with pre-
existing medical conditions).
In summary,  I think Mr G and Ms H agreed  to take out the cover, and it provided broadly
what I think they expected when they took it out. So I dont think  they would have made a
different decision (and decided against  taking it out) if they had been better informed.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G and Ms H because 
after February 1995: 
Ref: DRN08629343Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr G and Ms H about  that. Because Bradford & 
Bingley didnt tell Mr G and Ms H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr G and Ms H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & Bingley should also pay back  to Mr 
G and Ms H any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr G and Ms H the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr G and Ms H 8%* simple  interest on each payment. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley plc does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G and Ms H.
But Bradford  & Bingley plc does  have to pay back to Mr G and Ms H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0862934