K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about how NewDay Ltd (NewDay) has calculated  the compensation for a 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy that was taken  out alongside a credit  
card.
background
Mr T took out a credit card with NewDay in April 2008 and alongside  this he took out a PPI 
policy. The first PPI premium was added to the account in October 2008 and the policy  was 
cancelled in October 2012.
In 2019 Mr T complained  to NewDay that the PPI had been  mis-sold. NewDay upheld  his 
complaint and offered £1,821.71 in compensation. Mr T wasnt happy  with the amount of the 
offer as he thought NewDay hadnt calculated the compensatory interest correctly.
Our adjudicator said they thought the offer NewDay had made was fair. Mr T didnt agree so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr T complained about the PPI, NewDay agreed that the policy had been mis-sold. 
Where PPI is mis-sold  a business is expected to refund all the costs  actually paid by the 
consumer for the policy plus compensatory interest for anytime the consumer  may have 
been out of pocket.
NewDay has provided statements for the account  and its calculations  which  show  that Mr T 
was charged £468.88  in premiums for the PPI. These premiums were  added to his credit 
card account  and interest at card rate was therefore charged on them  whilst they formed  part 
of the balance. The PPI costs are deemed  the last thing paid from the balance and so card 
rate interest is calculated  on the PPI costs  until the balance is cleared. Once the balance 
was cleared Mr T was out of pocket  for the cost of the PPI and NewDay  has calculated 8% 
simple interest on the costs to compensate Mr T.
However Mr T doesnt agree that the approach taken by NewDay  is fair. He says that up to 
the point he cleared his balance what NewDay has done is fair but when he spent again on 
his card he should get card rate interest on his PPI costs that were already  paid off. In effect 
recharging the costs of the PPI to the card. 
I cannot see that would be fair as clearly any spending on the card after Mr T cleared his 
balance was for new purchases  and unrelated to the PPI costs that had already been repaid. 
As Mr T spent on his card, increasing his balance from zero again,  he is borrowing new 
amount from NewDay and interest is payable on the borrowings. 
Mr T says by taking an approach of looking at the transactions up to the date the balance  
was first cleared and then looking at the balance going forward  is artificially  creating two 
separate accounting ledgers. But in fact this is reflecting what happened on the account 
when calculating the PPI costs. When the PPI actually formed part of the account  balance it 
directly caused card rate interest on the amount. Once Mr T fully repaid his balance  NewDay 
Ref: DRN04365662were holding the PPI costs and so are paying compensatory interest on this amount 
because Mr T was out of pocket. 
Mr T cleared his balance  in October  2010  and up to this date NewDay  has calculated card 
rate interest on the PPI costs in the balance.  Mr T didnt spend again  on his account  until 
October 2011. From this date going  forward card rate interest  has been calculated  on the 
new PPI costs added which  formed part of the balance. For the PPI already repaid in full 
NewDay worked out 8% simple interest.  
In March 2016 Mr T again cleared  his balance. Up to this date NewDay has calculated card 
rate interest on the PPI costs that were in the balance. The PPI was cancelled  in October 
2012 so no new PPI costs were  charged after this date. But some  costs from October 2011 
to October  2012 were  in the balance  and so card rate interest was incurred on them.  After  
2016 no PPI costs were  in the balance and on all the PPI costs 8% simple interest was paid 
to Mr T for being out of pocket. I think this is fair to calculate the compensation due to Mr T. 
Mr T says if card rate interest isnt paid then NewDay should pay whatever the interest  rate 
was on his new borrowings, as he would have cleared his credit card balance from other 
loans/credit cards as he did not have surplus  funds  at the time. So he says if NewDay  is not 
paying credit  card interest on the PPI costs in his cleared  balance  it should pay interest  at 
the rate of his new borrowings. 
He had provided limited  evidence  from this credit file that he took out a loan in October  2010  
and says it is very likely the credit card balance in November 2010  was paid from that loan.  
But the loan was for a substantially different amount than the credit  card balance repaid. So 
there is no direct and clear link between the credit card balance and the loan. Nothing has 
been shown related to the way he may have cleared his balance in 2016.
Consumers often transfer balances onto other credit cards,  sometimes  for a period  of zero 
rate interest, or may take out a loan to clear a card at a loan rate that is less than the credit   
card rate, so less interest is paid.  So its possible that Mr T paid no interest for a time on his 
cleared credit card balance amount and could have paid less than the total of the 8% interest 
that NewDay has calculated. 
Mr T cleared his balance  twice during  the time PPI was included  in it. How he did this on 
both occasions  is not totally clear  and how much he may have paid in interest, if anything, on 
any borrowings for the part of the balance which was for the PPI costs isnt known. 
Consumers may refinance  several times, here Mr T cleared  his balance twice  when  it 
included PPI. It would be unreasonable  and may be impossible to expect any business to 
trace small amounts of borrowings for PPI through a chain of external borrowings, 
ascertaining the interest caused  by the PPI. 
Looking at NewDay position in this situation,  it had twice been repaid all the PPI costs  by 
Mr T, so it knew when  he was out of pocket for the PPI amounts, and its paid 8% simple  
interest. I think  in all the circumstances this is a reasonable and fair approach to take and 
provides fair compensation  to Mr T for being  out of pocket for costs of PPI that were  repaid 
at different  times.
Ref: DRN04365663my final decision
I am not upholding  the complaint that NewDay Ltd needs to recalculate  the compensation for 
the mis-sold PPI due to Mr T in a different way. I think the compensation calculated  and 
offered is fair and Im not telling the business  to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0436566