K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).  He 
says that because they gave him incorrect information, it put him in a cycle of fees on his 
credit card. He further complains that Barclays ought to have sent him a text reminder 
advising of his need to make  partial  payments towards his monthly  minimum payment.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr C and Barclays so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Mr C had a credit card with Barclays. At the material time his credit  limit was £500. His June
statement showed a balance of £487.98  with a minimum payment of £13.46 due on or 
before the 18 July 2018. The July statement, showed a balance of £523.95 with a minimum 
payment of £44.69 due on or before the 17 August 2018. After  the June, but prior to his July 
statement, Mr C made only one payment of £7 and as a result  incurred a £12 over limit fee 
and £12 late payment  fee.
Mr C spoke with a Barclays agent about  these  charges and they agreed to refund  them  as a 
goodwill gesture. Prior  to the August statement Mr C paid £18 but as this was below the 
minimum payment for that month,  he incurred another  late payment fee and over his limit 
fee. Mr C complained but Barclays wouldnt  refund the fees, explaining that they had been 
applied in accordance with the terms and conditions (TCs) governing the account.
Mr C was unhappy with Barclays  response and so the investigator looked into the complaint 
but didnt think  they had acted unfairly.  As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed 
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  That 
falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  Authority. 
What I need to decide is whether Barclays acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr C. I take into account both account both their view and that of Mr C. My aim is to reach  a 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the evidence before me. Where  that evidence  is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come  to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
The terms and conditions  on the account  set out that a late payment fee of £12 will be 
charged each time the minimum payment is not met, and further that an over limit fee of £12 
will be charged each month an account is over its credit  limit. This was notified to Mr C when 
he opened the account, and also each time he received  a monthly  statement. In July Mr C 
incurred charges although it appears he accepts Barclays were entitled  to charge these 
Ref: DRN00027182under their TCs. Although  they were refunded as a gesture of goodwill, I have considered  
whether they ought to have been  applied, and I am satisfied that they should.  Mr C was late 
in making the minimum payment and was also over his credit  limit.
When Mr C received his July statement it told him how much  he had to pay, that being 
£44.69. As a fact he did not make  that payment. The only payments  made  totalled  £18 and 
even taken together with the refund of £24 from the previous  month didnt amount to the 
minimum payment required.  So Im satisfied that the fees charged for the second time were  
correct because Mr C did not meet the minimum payment and he was again over his limit. 
Although Barclays refunded the previous months fees this does not in my view set a 
precedent for them to be obliged to refund any further fees charged.
I appreciate that Mr C feels that the telephone call he had with the agent wasnt clear and 
misled him, but Im afraid I cannot agree. The agent explained that £6.46  was required to 
meet the previous months minimum payment, not the current month. In addition  the 
statements sent to Mr C very clearly set out what sums needed to be paid and for which  
month. So I dont find that Mr C was misled.
Ive considered Mr Cs complaint about the text messages. Barclays  dont provide a text 
service when only a partial payment has been  made, and its not within my remit to tell a 
business to change their process to create such a service. They do however provide  text 
alerts advising  fees are going  to be charged once  a payment is missed or paid late. This was 
set up for Mr C following  his call in July. I can see there was a minor  piece of mis-information 
given to Mr C regarding  the timing of the sending of texts  and Barclays have apologised for 
this. That was fair as the error  didnt  affect  the more substantial complaint. 
So, I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for similar  reasons. I feel the fees applied were fair and 
reasonable and have  not placed Mr C into a cycle  of debt charges. Both sets of charges 
were correctly charged, and Barclays acted sympathetically in refunding the first set. So I 
cant say Barclays have  acted unfairly and Im not upholding  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0002718