K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited provided him with a conditional sale
agreement that was unaffordable.
To put things right, Mr H wants a refund of all interest and charges he paid in relation to this
finance. He also wants Moneybarn to ask the credit reference agencies  to remove  any
negative information  about this finance  that it asked  them to register on his credit  file.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Hs complaint in the provisional decision I issued earlier this 
year. But I will repeat  it again here in summary  so that all relevant information is in this one 
decision.
In August  2013  Mr H took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn  for a car. The 
cash price of the car was £16,100  there was an initial  payment of £1,000  and Moneybarn  
provided Mr H with total credit of £15,100.  The agreement was to be repaid over 48 
months. The monthly repayments were £498.90.
Mr H told us he could not afford this borrowing  at the time he took it out. He suggested this 
was because when  he took out this finance  he was already overextended  financially. In 
particular, he said he had several payday  loans  that he was paying off as well as three 
credit card accounts. Mr H told us the credit card accounts were all maxed  out. 
Moreover, Mr H indicated  that his total payday borrowing before the further  new credit from 
Moneybarn was added in was £2,100. 
Plus, Mr H also told us that the only way he was able to make his repayments to the 
conditional sale agreement was by using both his pre-existing and new payday loans. He 
explained that at around  about  the time he entered into the agreement  with Moneybarn  he 
also entered into a debt management plan for some of his other  debts. He suggested  all of 
this information  would  have been  available to Moneybarn when it was deciding  whether to 
lend to him. But it had chosen not to check for this.
Further, Mr H indicated he had money  troubles  during the life of the agreement. 
Specifically, he said to Moneybarn you should  have realised from the number of times I 
missed payments that my debt problems  were getting worse,  but you charged me late fees 
and default sums.   Mr H also suggested that he had asked Moneybarn for help with his 
repayments telling it that he was having financial difficulties, but it declined to help him.
In May 2015  Mr H settled  the conditional sale finance early by making a lump  sum 
payment of almost £11,000. It appears  this was a cash  payment. Mr H said he had 
borrowed this money from his parents. 
In July 2018, three years after the end of his agreement, Mr H complained to Moneybarn  
about its decision to lend to him in August 2013.
Moneybarns response was that when  Mr H took out the finance  it did appropriate checks 
that satisfied it that the lending was affordable. Specifically, Moneybarn said that it 
checked his income  by using the pay slips it asked for and he provided.  It told us it found 
that the monthly repayments represented 18% of his monthly  income.
Ref: DRN04947222Further, Moneybarn said it also ran its normal credit  checks. It told us its customers 
generally have  a higher risk profile than those of other mainstream lenders. But it said 
nonetheless Mr H passed its checks which are designed to establish if the lending is 
affordable. It also suggested that its checks fully complied with its regulatory obligations.
In relation to Mr Hs other debts, it could see that Mr H did have other finance at the time 
he applied  for the agreement, but its checks showed that all of those accounts were  in 
good order. Therefore,  those debts did not give it cause to think  that it ought not to lend to 
Mr H. Moreover,  it had provided Mr H with a statement about the affordability of the finance 
before it went ahead,  and Mr H had agreed he could  afford the agreement and signed that 
statement.
For all these reasons Moneybarn didnt agree the lending  had been inappropriate. 
Moneybarn explained that it had been unaware that during the course of the 
agreement, Mr H may have been  having money troubles. It indicated that in 
contradiction to what Mr H said, its records showed Mr H never said anything along  
those lines to it, at the time, in any event. So, it didnt see how it could reasonably  
have known anything  about this.
Dissatisfied with Moneybarns response Mr H came to our service.
I took a look at Mr Hs complaint. In short, I found in my provisional decision that 
Moneybarns checks had not gone far enough. But I was not satisfied that the lending was 
unaffordable. On that basis I told the parties I did not intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I set 
out below  what  I said in my provisional decision about this complaint.
When Moneybarn lent to Mr H it was a regulated business  providing regulated finance.  
That meant  it had certain obligations  to fulfil before it lent to him, the regulator at the time 
was the Office of Fair Trading the (OFT).
Under the relevant regulations at that time Moneybarn was obliged  to make sure that its 
lending was affordable and responsible. In particular, it was required to carry out checks 
that were proportionate  in the circumstances,  which  might include considerations about the 
amount borrowed  and Mr Hs borrowing history.  Exactly what  a lender should consider was 
for each  lender to decide and the rules listed  a number  of things each lender such as 
Moneybarn might have  wished to take into account
Further, Moneybarn had to be able to demonstrate that it did enough to ensure that Mr 
H could repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on 
his financial situation.  This assessment needed  to be borrower  focused.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I said I 
thought there were  some overarching questions I needed to consider in order to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I said,  these questions 
are:
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mr H would  be able to repay the conditional  sale agreement in a 
sustainable way? If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr H would have been able to do so?
Ref: DRN04947223Did Moneybarn act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
I explained that if I determined that Moneybarn did not act fairly and reasonably  in its 
dealings with Mr H and that he has lost out as a result,  Id go on to consider what  is a fair 
way to put things  right.
did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the conditional sale agreement in a sustainable  way?
As set out above, the regulatory framework requires Moneybarn to have  carried  out a 
proportionate assessment,  based  on sufficient information, of whether Mr H could afford to 
repay the conditional sale agreement with it in a sustainable manner.
This affordability assessment had to be borrower focused in the sense that rather than 
focusing on the credit risk for Moneybarn the assessment needed to have sufficient checks  
to satisfy Moneybarn  that Mr H would be able to repay the finance sustainably, without the 
repayments having a significant adverse  impact  on Mr Hs financial situation.
Moneybarn has told us that before lending to Mr H, it requested proof  of his income. It asked 
for and received his payslips for the last two months. From this it worked out his average 
monthly income. It calculated that the repayments  represented 18% of his normal monthly 
income.
Moreover, it said it also carried  out a credit  check to assess affordability,  level of debt and 
payment history.  It identified that Mr H did have payday loans and he did have credit card 
debt. However, it noted all of these  accounts  were in good order.  Mr H met Moneybarns 
own internal criteria for Moneybarn to lend. It asked for no further information and chose to 
do no further checks.
On the basis of the steps I have outlined  above Moneybarn thought it had done enough to 
check if the lending  was appropriate before it agreed to lend to Mr H.
I noted, it has been helpful  to see the checks Moneybarn undertook.  I did not doubt that 
Moneybarn thought it had gone far enough to establish it was appropriate to lend. That said,  
I did not think those  checks were proportionate  in these particular individual  circumstances. 
This is particularly so when I also took into account  what Moneybarn knew about Mr H.
Mr H was going to borrow a significant sum of money, £15,100, over a fairly short  period of
time. His monthly payments at almost  £500 reflected this. I think  the checks it carried out
ought to have been more  rigorous in this context.
In addition, in the two months immediately before taking out finance with Moneybarn  Mr Hs
bank statements, which, Moneybarn chose not to look at, showed Mr H had taken  credit
from at least five different  payday lenders. It is likely  that at least some  of this information
was available  on Mr Hs credit file at the time he made his application  to Moneybarn. I 
accepted that by itself, borrowing from payday  lender(s) might not mean that a business 
ought reasonably  to dig further. However, in this instance, I thought the amount, volume  and 
timing of this payday lending  would  have made  any reasonable lender make further checks.
As far as I could see Moneybarn placed great emphasis on the fact that the repayments 
represented 18% of Mr Hs monthly income. But that was just one facet of Mr Hs financial 
situation. Moneybarn  did not ask about  his other outgoings other than the debt repayments 
Ref: DRN04947224he had. I said it is hard to see therefore  how it was able to establish that Mr H would be able 
to maintain significant monthly repayments  without knowing what other financial priorities  he 
might have had other than his debt repayments.
For all of these reasons, I thought that Moneybarn  should have conducted further checks 
before it lent to Mr H to satisfy itself of Mr Hs financial  standing and that Mr H could 
initially afford and maintain repayments  to the conditional sale agreement.
It follows that, I was not satisfied that the checks Moneybarn  undertook  before lending  to
Mr H were proportionate in the circumstances or that it undertook a reasonable 
assessment of what it did know about Mr H.
would the additional checks have shown  that the lending  was unaffordable?
Mr H tells us about  his circumstances. It appears he was in a full-time role with a regular 
salary and he sometimes got large  lump sum payments for expenses. For example, in July 
2013 his bank statement shows he received almost £5,000, which  he told us was 
expenses. But, at the same time,  he suggested his borrowing  was escalating. His stance 
is that he was using both payday  loans and his credit card accounts  to fund himself in 
addition to his salary. It seems as Moneybarn said the accounts were all in good order, but 
it was something of a balancing act to keep  it so from his perspective.  Im satisfied that 
Moneybarn might have  seen all of this had it checked.
However, it is not enough for me to say that Moneybarns checks did not go far enough. If I 
am to ask it to take further action I must  be satisfied  that Mr H could  not afford the 
borrowing. For me to come to this conclusion I said I need to be persuaded that I have a 
full picture of Mr Hs financial situation  at the time. I was not satisfied that I did at the point 
when I issued my provisional decision. I said this for a number  of reasons that I then went 
through.
Mr H has been very specific about  what his outgoings were at the time,  he mentions rent,
council tax, utilities, transport costs and food and toiletries in particular. These  seem  to be
the type of expenses he might have been expected  to have had. 
However, on the face of it, none  of these outgoings  appear on the bank statements he sent 
us. Mr H explained that this was because  all of his outgoings bar, his rent were paid for 
using his credit cards.  I took on board, that Mr H unsurprisingly,  cannot  now provide the 
credit card statements for 2013. But he told us he paid his rent in cash  and he said this cash 
came out of his current account. He said his rent was £400 per month. But there  was no 
regular cash withdrawals that matched this monthly amount in Mr Hs bank statements. We 
asked about this. Mr H said.
RENT CASH WITHDRAWALS
JUNE I DIDNT PAY MY RENT SO PAID..
11/7/13 £300 RENT ARREARS
17/7/13 £300 RENT ARREARS
29/7/13 RENT  £100
31/7/13 £500 RENT
30/8/13 & 2/9/13 £300ea RENT
Ref: DRN04947225I pointed out that the information provided by Mr H does not tally with what he says about 
paying £400 a month  in cash in rent on a regular  date. I asked might Mr H be able to explain 
this?
I explained that I have very little information that I can cross  reference about Mr Hs living  
expenses in August  2013. All that is available is the information he has provided  about his 
rent to explain his significant cash withdrawals. That being so, it is even more important that 
the limited information  he has been  able to provide ties up with what he tells us about his 
finances in August 2013.
Mr H also said he had his salary and expenses paid in from a source  that is called 
Business Account in his bank statements. I said Id like Mr H to confirm  that he has no 
separate business account. I asked for this confirmation because again, on the face of it, it 
appears he was having  large transfers of cash coming into his account  from a source called 
Business Account.
Mr H paid off the conditional  sale agreement early  with cash it seems. Mr H tells us this 
cash came  from his parents. I said it would  be helpful if he is able to provide information  to 
demonstrate this.
In the circumstances, for all of these reasons, I was not persuaded, currently, that I had 
sufficient information  to safely conclude that I knew enough about  Mr Hs financial 
circumstances at the relevant time,  to be able to say the lending  was unaffordable.
did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Mr H suggests he had financial  difficulties  after he took out the lending  with Moneybarn,  and 
this meant  he made some of his repayments  late. If a consumer is experiencing money  
troubles a lender is expected to notice for itself. In addition, at the time Mr Hs agreement 
was active Moneybarn was meant  to respond positively and sympathetically to such  an 
issue.
As I mentioned above Moneybarn had a proactive  duty to notice if Mr Hs repayment  history 
fitted the pattern of someone who is struggling with their finances.
Added to which, Mr H suggests he also told Moneybarn specifically that he was having 
financial problems, and this also put it on further  notice.  But he indicates far from looking into 
this as it should have done Moneybarn did nothing.
I took a look at Mr Hs repayment history  and Moneybarns  internal notes.  I saw no reason 
why those notes  would  not be accurate.
I said the picture does  not appear to be as clear-cut as Mr H suggests. There  were  several  
occasions when  the direct debit to pay for the repayments required by the agreement  
bounced. But I saw no notes saying Mr H said this was due to him having  money  problems. 
Rather, there is a note on one occasion  saying  Mr H told Moneybarn  the account  manager 
who deals with wages  at his employer has gone into hospital without warning, and this 
caused the direct debit  to bounce. On another occasion there is a note saying Mr H did not 
know why the direct debit  did not go through.
That said,  in 2014  there appears  to be at least five times when there were problems with the 
repayments. That is the direct debits bounced.  In these circumstances, I thought  that I might 
Ref: DRN04947226have reasonably expected Moneybarn to pick up on this. Instead, it seems to have  taken the 
approach that all was well because the follow-up payments were swiftly made by Mr H. 
However, a lender ought not to take such a studiedly uncurious  approach  when it sees this 
pattern of missed and late payments.. But given  the notes on the file, I was not persuaded 
that Mr H might have been ready, at that point, to tell Moneybarn  about his money problems. 
So, it did not seem  likely to me, in these very individual circumstances, that even if 
Moneybarn had asked  about this, as it should  have done, it would  have got to the bottom of 
it.
It follows, that I did not agree that Mr H was disadvantaged because Moneybarn  failed to act 
appropriately when  he was experiencing financial difficulties.
I also noted that Mr H had raised  a new issue about  his gambling problems. Mr H had not 
complained to Moneybarn about  this in his original  complaint so I asked if Moneybarn would 
allow us to look at this.
Based on all of the above my provisional decision was that I did not intend to uphold  Mr Hs 
complaint. 
I invited both Mr H and Moneybarn to respond  to my provisional  decision. Mr H responded 
and as far as I am aware Moneybarn did not, not even to tell us that it had received the 
decision.
In short,  Mr H responded to say that his rent was £600 per month, not the £400 he 
previously said it was. He told us he did not have  a business account.  He said the money 
that was paid into his account with the payer reference Business Account came  from his 
employer at that time. It, his employer, chose to identify  money  it paid into employees 
accounts with the reference Business Account  rather  than putting its own name on such  
payments. We said we wanted to contact his former employer to check this one factual point. 
Mr H asked us not to do that and explained why. He also said in any event  no one at his 
former employer would be able to confirm  this information due to changes that had occurred 
there. But he asked  two people to contact  us. Both of these people said they had worked at 
Mr Hs employer in payroll  and that salaries and expenses had been paid with the reference  
Business Account.
Further, Mr H explained the money  he had used  to pay off the conditional  sale agreement 
came from his friend rather than his parents. He told us he had not ever told Moneybarn  he 
was having money  troubles as he was worried about  what it would do if he revealed his 
plight.
.
my findings
I thank Mr H for his responses  to my provisional  decision. Ive reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Ive reviewed  the complete file again and revisited my provisional decision.
It is not ideal  that we have heard nothing from Moneybarn  in response to my provisional  
decision. But I am satisfied that it has had a fair opportunity to respond.
I have received no new information  since my provisional decision, about whether Moneybarn  
did enough before  it lent to Mr H. That being  so, I have come to the same  conclusions for the 
Ref: DRN04947227same reasons as I did in my provisional  decision. I am persuaded that Moneybarn should  
have conducted  further checks before it lent to Mr H to satisfy itself of Mr Hs financial 
standing and that Mr H could initially afford  and maintain repayments to the conditional sale 
agreement.
It follows that, I am not satisfied that the checks Moneybarn undertook before lending  to
Mr H were proportionate in the circumstances or that it undertook a reasonable assessment 
of what it did know about Mr H.
However, I am not persuaded by the further  information that Mr H has provided. I do not find 
that I have  a proper  basis  to say that he could not afford the lending  based on his financial 
situation in August 2013. As I said in my provisional decision, if I am to ask Moneybarn  to 
take further action  I must be satisfied that Mr H could not afford the borrowing. For me to 
come to this conclusion I need  to be persuaded that I have a full picture of Mr Hs financial 
situation in August 2013. I am not satisfied that I do.
As I also explained in my provisional decision. I have very limited  information about Mr Hs 
financial situation at the time he borrowed from Moneybarn.  That being so it is all the more 
important that the limited  information he has been  able to provide ties up with what  he tells 
us about his finances in August  2013. 
Mr H tells us about  his rent, which he said he paid in cash  seemingly on different dates each 
month. At first he told us the rent was £400 per month. Then £600. I might have expected 
him to have  provided consistent information about  this point. Nonetheless even if he was 
mistaken about how much he did pay, it is not clear  why, if his rent was £600  per month 
every month, he only paid £300 in both August and September for example. 
It is unusual in my experience, for an employer to identify payments from itself not by using  
its own name but by calling itself Business Account. Mr H had almost  £5,000  paid into his 
account from the Business Account reference  in July 2013. That is the month  before he 
entered into his agreement  with Moneybarn. This was a significant  amount of money in the 
circumstances and made a great difference to his overall financial  situation on the face of it. 
We wanted to ask Mr Hs former  employer  about this as I have already mentioned  above.  
Mr H has given us an explanation about  why he does not want us to contact his former  
employer. But in the circumstances, I am not persuaded  that it would be unreasonable to 
contact his former employer to ask it about  one limited  factual  point. That said we did not 
contact his former employer given  his opposition  to this. Neither am I persuaded that no one 
at his former  employer  would know  about  the payroll arrangement which  existed when Mr H 
worked for it, given  that Mr H only left its employment fairly recently it would seem. I 
recognise two people have contacted us at Mr Hs request to tell us about the payroll set- 
up at the former employer. But when it comes to key factual information which this is, it is 
the employer who Id expect to provide this information. On balance I am not satisfied that I 
know enough about this source  of funds to be persuaded by what  Mr H has said about  this.
I thank Mr H for confirming that the money  to settle his conditional sale agreement that is 
around £11,000 came from his friend  who lent him the money and not from his parents. 
Although why Mr H might  have been initially mistaken about  who such a large sum of 
money came from is not clear. 
In all the circumstances, with such discrepancies in mind and being  unable to check key 
information with a key third party,  I have some difficulty relying on the accuracy of some of 
the information Mr H has provided and on some  of his recollections.
Ref: DRN04947228For all of these reasons, on balance I do not find that Mr H could not afford the finance.
I also looked again at whether Moneybarn did enough when Mr H was experiencing financial 
difficulties. It is clear  now that Mr H never  told Moneybarn that he was in a tight spot 
financially. I am satisfied he did not discuss his situation with it because  he was worried 
about its response. But equally  given  Mr Hs history  of late payments and unconvincing 
reasons for those  late payments,  I think Moneybarn should have asked Mr H more  about this 
at the time. 
However, I am persuaded  that Mr H was worried about its response  if he told it he had 
money problems. So, I think  it is unlikely that even  if Moneybarn  had asked about  this 
straight out that Mr H would have been willing, at that point in time, to talk about his finances.  
It follows that I find that even if Moneybarn had pursued this it would have got no further. 
Dealing with financial difficulties is a two-way street both parties  have to communicate  to get 
somewhere. That being so I dont think Moneybarn did treat Mr H unfairly when he had 
financial difficulties.
Mr H told us about his problem gambling.  But he never raised this with Moneybarn  when he 
complained to it, its a new issue. Therefore, it did not deal with the issue in its final response 
to Mr H. I asked  Moneybarn  if we might look at this new issue as I needed  its consent  to do 
so. But it has not responded. So, on that basis I am unable to look at this issue  in this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0494722