K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card application form completed at the 
time. I think its likely  the selection of PPI on the form was computerised  but I think its more 
likely than not that this was added following a discussion. Mr R has signed  the form which 
indicates he wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Mr R was taking out further credit, if he 
didnt want the PPI, I would have expected him to raise this before he signed the application.  
So having  taken everything into account,  I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr R didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover. Mr Rs 
representative has said that Mr R was self employed at the time, but I note that Mr Rs 
testimony and the application form suggest  he was employed  at the time of the sale.  
And I think that Mr R seems to have had a need  for the cover.  I say that because  Mr R told 
us he had no sick pay and no other  means  he could rely on. The policy could have paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event  of a successful claim if he was too ill to work, or if he lost his 
job, so I think Mr R would have found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr R about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Mr R paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr R back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr R now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN05065422my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0506542