K820x#14complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a regular premium  mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy by Coutts  Finance  Company (Coutts).
background
Mr C had a mortgage  with Coutts.  At or around the same time he took the mortgage out in 
1994 he took out a regular premium PPI policy  to cover his repayments if he was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. A successful claim on the policy wouldve 
covered his mortgage payments for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought
that the policy provided a useful benefit  to Mr C.  
Mr C disagrees.  So the complaint  has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
The sale took place  20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Coutts needed to make it clear to Mr C that he had a choice in taking the policy.  
Mr C says he was advised to take the policy but hasnt provided any specific  details about  
the sale which is understandable  considering  the amount of time that has passed. And 
Coutts havent given us any of the documents from the time of the sale.  So I dont know 
exactly what was discussed  about PPI or how it was presented.
But Ive seen a copy of the policy schedule  and premium plan supplied by Mr C. The 
premium plan says the policy can be cancelled and details a payment  plan entirely separate  
from the mortgage that the policy was to cover.  So I think  its likely that Mr C wouldve 
understood it wasnt part and of the mortgage,  was optional and Mr C chose  to take it. 
Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt  given  a choice or that he didnt agree to buy it.
Its not clear whether  the sale of PPI was advised by Coutts but Im going  to treat the sale as 
if it was  this puts Mr C in the best position.  What this means is that Coutts  not only had to 
provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr C could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr Cs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Coutts did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think  the policy was a suitable
recommendation for Mr C for the following  reasons:
Ref: DRN09339962From  what I understand  about  the policies  sold at the time he was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main  exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of these  types  of policies  which  couldve made it difficult 
to make a successful claim.
Mr C says he had savings he couldve used  to make his repayments if he couldnt 
work. But his savings mayve been  earmarked for something else and the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his savings and covered  him for potentially longer, 
covering him for up to 12 months  if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or if he lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr C in his circumstances 
especially considering  he was taking on a significant  and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments  I think  
Mr C wouldve been interested in protecting  them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr C at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer  wanted the policy  he could cancel it.
I also need to consider  whether Coutts gave Mr C information in a way which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if Coutts did give all the information  as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr C has told us about his circumstances at 
the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information.
This means  that Coutts hasnt done  anything wrong  and I wont  be upholding  Mr Cs 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Coutts  Finance 
Company.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0933996