K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background
Mr B got an online quote of £769.44  for Admiral car insurance. He then called Admiral on 19 
March 2018 to discuss the quote.  During the call Admiral did some checks on Mr Bs driving 
history and they discovered that he was involved in an accident in March  2017. Mr B hadnt 
disclosed that accident during his online application  that gave the original quote.
Mr B told Admiral  that the accident  in 2017 wasnt his fault. But as the claim was showing as 
being open,  in other words not yet concluded,  Admiral recalculated  the premium which 
came to over £1,700.  Mr B agreed  to go ahead with the policy.
In April 2018, Mr B told Admiral that the claim had been concluded as not being his fault.  
Admiral asked Mr B for documentary evidence that the claim was closed as not his fault. He 
provided that evidence in June 2018. Admiral  recalculated the premium and refunded  Mr B 
just under £700. That meant the cost of his premium  was around  £1,000.  Mr B complained 
saying that wasnt  fair as once the 2017  claim closed as not being his fault, the premium 
should have gone back down to the original online quote of £769.44. Admiral  didnt  uphold  
Mr Bs complaint and said they had calculated his premium correctly.
Mr B didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. She felt that Admiral  had treated Mr A fairly  and that his premium 
was calculated correctly.  As Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr B has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Admiral have  dealt  with Mr B in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr B believes the increase to his premium was unfair because of an accident that wasnt his 
fault. It might help if I explain that we're not the industry regulator.  That means it's not my 
role to tell an insurer how much they can charge  for their policies. And our service generally 
takes the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers with 
similar circumstances in the same  way - insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel they 
need to in order to cover a risk.
Mr Bs premium  did go up significantly. So I can understand why he was concerned. But just 
because Mr Bs premium has increased,  I don't think that means  that Admiral have treated 
him unfairly.  Admiral provided me with information  to show how Mr Bs premium has 
increased. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Mr B. But having 
Ref: DRN01023242looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Admiral  treated Mr B in the same way as they would 
other policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated  his premium 
reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
Some insurers say that statistically  policyholders  involved in non-fault accidents are at a 
higher risk of being involved in accidents in the future. As insurance  is essentially an 
assessment of risk, I dont think theres  anything  wrong with insurers  considering whether or 
not certain individuals fall into higher risk groupings.  
When Mr B obtained his original online quote,  which was under £800, he hadnt  declared his 
non-fault accident that happened in March 2017. The quote  given  by Admiral was therefore 
on the basis of there  being no accidents (or claims). Later when  Mr B spoke with Admiral 
and the 2017 accident came to light, Admiral  recalculated the premium, which came to over 
£1,700. Although Mr B told Admiral that the 2017  accident wasnt  his fault,  the claim hadnt 
yet been concluded. Because of that, Admiral recalculated Mr Bs premium on the basis  of 
there being an open claim. For the purposes of calculating  premiums, an open claim is the 
same as a fault claim. As an insurer doesnt  know whether or not an open claim will 
eventually close as being their policyholders  fault or not, they work on a worst case scenario 
basis by treating it as though it will result in being  their policyholders fault.  But if its later 
decided that the accident wasnt  the policyholders fault, an insurer will record  it as a non-
fault claim and retrospectively recalculate the premium on that basis. In most  cases an open 
or fault claim being changed to a non-fault claim will result in a reduction in the premium.  
That happened in Mr Bs case. When the claim was changed to non-fault  Mr Bs premium 
went down from over £1,700 to about £1,000.
But Mr B expected the premium to revert to under £800, the price  he was quoted online. But 
that didnt happen because, according  to Admiral, there is a difference  between  not having 
an accident at all and having an accident that wasnt the policyholders fault. In Mr Bs case 
the non-fault accident attracted a higher premium. I can understand why Mr B feels  thats 
unfair, because the accident wasnt his fault.  But like most  insurers, Admiral say that those  
involved in non-fault accidents are statistically more at risk of being involved in accidents in 
the future.  I therefore dont believe Admiral  have acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN01023243my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0102324