K822xcomplaint
Mrs A, who is representing the estate  of the late Mr A, complains that Yorkshire  Building  
Society (YBS) mis-sold Mr A a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  alongside a 
mortgage.
background 
Mr A applied for PPI alongside a mortgage which started in May 1989. Mrs A thinks the PPI 
was mis-sold.
YBS looked  at this, and thought the complaint should be upheld. But it said it didnt have any 
records showing what Mr A had paid towards  the PPI; it offered  to pay Mr As estate the 
premiums shown on a statement for 1989,  but asked for further evidence  of premiums paid 
after that date.  Mrs A thinks that the policy remained in force  until Mr A passed away,  so she 
referred the complaint to us.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and recommended  that YBS assume the PPI 
continued until July 1993  the midway point between the last statement and the date Mr A 
died in 1997.
YBS said it was willing to compromise on this basis, but that if Mrs A didnt agree with this it 
wanted evidence  that the policy  existed in later years. Mrs A still feels the refund should 
continue to 1997. The complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBS has agreed the complaint should  be upheld. In this decision Im just looking at whether 
YBS needs  to pay compensation  for the full period until Mr A passed  away.
Where I decide or a business agrees that a complaint about PPI should  be upheld, Id expect 
the compensation to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt  bought  the 
policy. Where  theres a disagreement  about what happened, I need to decide whats most  
likely to have happened based on the information  Ive seen.
Mrs A has sent me a copy of a mortgage statement dated 31 December 1989. Based on the 
statement, it appears Mr As mortgage  began in May 1989.  At the bottom of the statement, 
theres a number of insurances listed under the heading arrangements for the year 
commencing. This lists an income protection monthly  premium  of £43.60. The statement 
of account also shows an item with the code IP of £305.20, which would be seven monthly 
premiums.
YBS doesnt  have  ledgers  for the account until January 1998  and theres no PPI or income 
protection policies  shown  on those.  Mrs A hasnt been able to send us any further  
statements. But given how long ago this all happened, I dont think  this is unreasonable. So 
Ive thought about what both YBS and Mrs A have said alongside the information that is 
available.
Mrs A says she thinks the PPI continued until 1997. Shes told us that her husband wasnt 
the kind of person whod  have cancelled a PPI policy  and so she doesnt  think hed have 
Ref: DRN08994322done this. On the other hand,  YBS says this was a monthly premium  contract  that could 
have been cancelled at any time. 
Given the very limited  information available, its not now possible to say for certain  whether 
Mr A cancelled the PPI before he passed away. I think, though, its likely that the PPI carried  
on beyond 1989   the statement says this was going to continue  into the next year  and so 
I think its fair this is reflected in the compensation. 
I appreciate what Mrs A has said about how she thinks  her husband would have acted.  But 
given Mrs A hasnt been able to provide any documents from the time showing whether the 
PPI remained in force beyond 1989, I dont think I can conclude that the policy  would have 
remained in force until 1997 based solely on what she has said.
In the absence of better information, I think assuming  the PPI continued until the midway 
point between the statement and the date Mr A passed away  is a reasonable starting  point. 
Of course,  should Mrs A subsequently find any paperwork showing that Mr A continued  to 
pay a premium beyond  that date,  YBS should consider this.
putting things right
YBS has concluded the policy was mis-sold. To put things right YBS should:
assume the policy started  in May 1989,  ended in July 1993 and cost £43.60 a month;
refund  these premiums,
and pay simple interest (the rate is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% after this) 
from the date each payment would have been  made until the date of settlement, to 
compensate the estate of the late Mr A for the time its been out of pocket.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I determine  the complaint in favour of the estate of the late Mr A. 
Yorkshire Building Society should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to as Mrs A, on behalf  of 
the estate of the late Mr A, to accept or reject my decision  before 7 February 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0899432