1complaint
Mr K has complained that Embark Services Limited (trading as Hornbuckle)  has been charging  
fees on his Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP)  whilst not undertaking any work on his 
behalf. And he says that Hornbuckle has withdrawn  money from his SIPP bank account without 
notifying him.
Mr Ks also unhappy with the delays he experienced when his benefits were transferred  to 
another provider.  And he says that Hornbuckle  failed to notice  the scheme assets had 
transferred for over two months.
background
I issued my provision decision in April 2018.  A copy is attached and forms part of this final 
decision so I dont  intend to repeat it in full here.  But in summary  I said that I wasnt  minded to 
uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
Failure to issue invoices before August  2012 - I thought that this complaint had been 
made out of time under the rules I must apply, as the complaint  had been  brought  to 
us more than six months after the issue of the business final response letter And Id 
not been made aware of any reasons that prevented  Mr K from contacting us in time. 
As such, I was minded to conclude  that Im unable to consider this particular  aspect of 
Mr Ks complaint.
Failure to issue invoices or statements  from August  2012 onwards - I was satisfied  
that, on balance, the invoices had been issued and they were sent to the correct 
address. But even if the invoices  werent  received, I didnt think  this aspect of the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Mr K had acknowledged  that fees were payable  to the 
SIPP trustee  and the fees were clearly set out in the fee schedule.  So even if Mr K 
hadnt received  the invoices, I was satisfied  he knew the fees - including the amount 
as set out in the fee schedule - would be debited from his SIPP  account.
Fees - Mr K thought that Hornbuckle had been  charging him whilst not undertaking 
any work on his behalf. I acknowledged that Mr K may not be happy with the service  
hed received from Hornbuckle. But Id not seen any evidence  that it had breached its 
contractual obligations. By signing the terms and conditions, I thought  that Mr K had 
agreed to be bound  by those  terms and the fees set out within them.  And having 
compared the fee schedule with Mr Ks statements, I was satisfied the fees charged 
were in line with the schedule.  And I was also satisfied with the explanation  
Hornbuckle had given as to the activities it undertook for the fees being  charged. So I 
thought these fees, including  the annual drawdown fee, had been correctly applied.  
I also explained that it was the responsibility  of the business that sold Mr K the SIPP to 
make him aware of any fees he would incur. And if this hadnt  been done, I didnt think 
it was something that Hornbuckle could be held responsible for as I was satisfied 
these fees were clearly  set out in the fee schedule.
Unauthorised transfer  I said I was minded to conclude that the main reason 
Hornbuckle wasnt aware Mr Ks assets had been transferred was because,  by acting 
solely on Mr Ks instruction, Firm P (a third party investment firm) had failed to follow 
proper procedure. And I thought that the transfer should never have gone ahead 
without Hornbuckles  authority.  
Ref: DRN02157522Hornbuckle wasnt aware Mr Ks assets had transferred until 6 weeks  later so Id 
thought about whether it shouldve noticed  this sooner. But the valuation  statement 
had already been issued  for that year. So there  wasnt a requirement for Hornbuckle to 
contact Firm P after obtaining the May 2016 valuations. As such,  I didnt think the 
continuous monitoring of the scheme  investments would  have picked up on the 
transfer until such a time as Hornbuckle was required  to contact Firm P again.
In terms of the full activity  tracking, I didnt think this wouldve picked the transfer up as 
this monitored  the SIPP Trustee  bank account; not the investments held within the 
SIPP. And as the assets werent sold - they were transferred in specie - no additional 
funds were credited  to the bank account.  
Based on what Id seen,  I didnt think it was unreasonable that Hornbuckle  didnt  notice 
the transfer had happened until it received  the transfer forms from Firm A (the new 
SIPP provider). 
Delay in the transfer completing  I said I was minded to conclude that the delay  
in the transfer  completing was due to the delay in Mr K returning a previous over 
payment. So I didnt  think  Hornbuckle  was responsible for this. Mr K returned the 
overpaid contributions in January  2017  and the transfer completed the same 
month. So I was satisfied  that Hornbuckle processed the transfer in a reasonable 
timeframe after the overpayment was returned.
Was it right for Hornbuckle to charge a transfer  fee?  I thought it had been necessary 
for Hornbuckle  to collate certain  information  regarding the scheme and for this to be 
forwarded to Firm A. This included, amongst  other things, details of Mr Ks status in 
terms of his annual  money purchase allowance, details of any pension sharing orders 
or earmark  orders against any of the benefits. And details  of any transitional protection 
in place and crystallised benefits. Given this, I was satisfied that the transfer-out fee, as 
set out in the fee schedule, is in place to cover these administration costs so I thought  
Hornbuckle was entitled  to charge it.
Mr K responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that he didnt accept my findings. He 
provided copies  of statements in support of cash being transferred from his SIPP  and in 
summary he said that:
In essence  the decision  states that Hornbuckle could allow the entire contents of a bank 
account or SIPP account to be cleared out by a third party and have no responsibility 
for that negligent  conduct.  
Money or assets cant  be taken from an account  holder  without their consent or 
authorisation unless such  funds are taken fraudulently. The money  left Hornbuckles 
account without  its knowledge or consent.  Furthermore Hornbuckle was only aware of 
the funds having  left their account after he notified it. The idea that Hornbuckle  isnt 
liable for the loss of funds because it was an in specie transfer is unacceptable. 
Hornbuckle lost control  of all three of his investment  accounts  and was unaware of the 
transfer of funds, including cash in three bank accounts. The funds could  have ended  
up in a scammers bank account  and Hornbuckle  wouldnt  have  been  aware  of this. 
Hornbuckle has said that "no cash" was transferred  without its knowledge. But the 
statements provided clearly show that transfers  were from bank accounts, the cash 
sums totalled in excess of £2K. 
Ref: DRN02157523Its acknowledged that Hornbuckle  was unaware of the transfer of all three sets of his 
investments previously held in custody by them (SIPP, ISA & Nominee). All three funds, 
including cash, left its "custody and control"  (presumably in its capacity as trustees of 
those funds) at the request of a third party namely Firm P or Firm A. The decision 
effectively says that such action, or inaction, is neither questionable never mind 
professionally negligent.  
In the court case of a former employee,  the judge strongly criticised Hornbuckles  
monitoring and financial control  mechanisms and suggested that the systems were 
lacking and open to abuse.
Hornbuckle didnt  provide  a response to my provisional decision.  But it was asked for further 
information relating  to Mr Ks latest  submissions. In summary it reiterated that no cash had 
been transferred  from the SIPP bank account.  And it maintained that the transfer of assets  
should not have happened without being  authorised by the rightful and legal owner  of the 
assets: the SIPP. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its regrettable that theres been a delay in reaching a final decision on this matter. This was 
partly due to the delay  in submissions being  provided. But its also taken me longer than I 
wouldve liked to review  matters and I apologise  for this. 
Having now reviewed the case afresh, I dont intend  to depart from the conclusion reached in 
my provisional decision to not uphold the complaint. However, Mr K has provided  further  
submissions so Ive set out below why I dont think the new submissions  change  the outcome 
of the complaint. 
Although my provisional decision  addressed  several points of complaint, Mr Ks final 
submissions predominately relate  to Hornbuckles failure to notice that his portfolio had 
transferred until it was bought to its attention. 
Within the Hornbuckle  SIPP (which  is essentially  a pension tax wrapper) Mr K held a 
Discretionary Fund  Manager (DMF) portfolio with Firm P. Although Hornbuckle was the joint 
legal owner of these  assets, the portfolio itself was held with Firm P. 
Usually when a SIPP is transferred, the SIPP holder   in this case  Mr K  contacts  the existing 
Trustee or the new SIPP Trustee to arrange the transfer. This way both schemes can agree to 
the transfer and make  the necessary arrangements for the funds to be transferred correctly, so 
as to avoid the transfer contravening pension rules or being deemed  unauthorised by HMRC. 
However, on this occasion Firm P transferred the DFM portfolio held within  Mr Ks SIPP to 
Firm A without Hornbuckles knowledge  or consent. Firm A then contacted Hornbuckle to 
request the completion of the transfer forms and it was this that alerted Hornbuckle  that the 
DFM portfolio had been transferred to Firm A. Firm P therefore acted on the transfer instruction 
without both Hornbuckle and Mr Ks joint consent.    
Ref: DRN02157524Mr K has said that Hornbuckle also lost control  of his nominee account  and his ISA. But Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  that Hornbuckle  had any involvement with these accounts. 
Hornbuckle is a SIPP  specialist and professional Trustee. And its confirmed that these  are not 
propositions that it offers. So whilst these accounts  may be managed by Firm P, Im satisfied 
that Hornbuckle had no involvement with these. This is supported by the statements Mr K has 
provided, certainly in terms  of the ISA, as this indicates that its held with an entirely separate 
business. 
I know Mr K has concerns that Hornbuckle didnt notice the assets had transferred but my 
position regarding  this is as set out on my provisional decision. I dont intend  to reiterate my 
thoughts regarding this in full here.  But in summary Im satisfied that as the DFM  portfolio was 
transferred in specie,  no cash  wouldve passed  through the SIPP  Trustee bank account. I know  
Mr K believes the statements hes provided  demonstrate that cash did transfer from his SIPP.  
But the statements  show that cash within his DFM portfolio with Firm P transferred to Firm A. 
The full activity tracking wouldnt have  picked up on this because the cash  didnt pass through  
the SIPP Trustee bank account. The annual valuation  for the SIPP had already been issued a 
few months prior to the assets transferring. So it wasnt necessary for Hornbuckle  to contact 
Firm P to request an up to date valuation.   
Mr K has said that the funds could have ended up in a scammers account. But I think its 
important to note that these funds didnt actually move to a different  account. The DFM 
portfolio  of which Hornbuckle were the joint legal owners alongside Mr K - was re-registered 
with Firm A as the new legal owner. This happened  without  Hornbuckles authority and, it 
appears, solely on Mr Ks instruction. The transfer  of assets happened without Hornbuckles 
consent. So in the event  that assets  had been  re-registered to an incorrect party,  it would be 
difficult to say that Hornbuckle could be held responsible. 
I know Mr K believes that a previous court case supports his view that Hornbuckle has acted 
inappropriately. But in terms of the transfer  of assets from Hornbuckle to Firm A, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Hornbuckle was at fault.  It was the joint legal owner of the assets so 
the transfer should never have gone  ahead without its approval. 
I appreciate Mr K feels strongly  about this matter and I am sorry to disappoint him. But Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Hornbuckle has done  anything wrong so Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, the complaint  regarding 
Hornbuckles failure to issue invoices before  August 2012 wasnt  referred  in time and so cant  
be considered. And Im not upholding the other aspects  of Mr Ks complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02157525Provisional decision  24 April 2018
complaint
Mr K has complained that Embark Services Limited  (trading as Hornbuckle)  has been charging fees on 
his Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP) whilst  not undertaking any work  on his behalf. And he says 
that Hornbuckle has withdrawn money from his SIPP  bank  account without notifying him.  
Mr Ks also unhappy with the delays he experienced when his benefits were transferred  to another  
provider. And he says that Hornbuckle failed  to notice the scheme  assets had transferred for over two 
months.
 
background
Mr K took out a SIPP with Hornbuckle  in 2008. Hornbuckle acted as the SIPP trustee  and administrator.  
But it didnt hold any assets; these were held by a third party investment firm (firm P).  
The SIPP has now been transferred to another provider (firm A). But during the time that Hornbuckle  
was the trustee, Mr K raised several complaints. The first was raised in 2011 after Mr K received 
notification of proposed changes to Hornbuckles  terms and conditions. He also complained that 
Hornbuckle had been taking fees from his SIPP  account without prior notification. Hornbuckle reviewed 
this complaint and issued  its final response on this matter in August  2012. 
In 2014, Mr K complained  again  after a review of Hornbuckles past business identified  that it had 
miscalculated his pension entitlement - which meant that hed been overpaid. At that time, Hornbuckle  
wrote to Mr K to explain  that the overpayment would need to be returned to the SIPP  or the SIPP bank 
account. Alternatively  it said Mr K could keep the overpayment but it would be treated as an HMRC  
unauthorised payment  and taxed accordingly.  In January 2015, Mr K wrote a letter  to Hornbuckle to 
confirm that he would repay  the money to the SIPP. But the money wasnt repaid at that time. 
In July 2016  Mr K contacted  Hornbuckle  to request the transfer  of his SIPP to firm A. Hornbuckle said 
this couldnt be completed until the overpayment had been returned. However,  in July 2016 firm P 
arranged for an in-specie  transfer  of the SIPPs  assets.  Hornbuckle didnt realise the transfer had taken 
place until September 2016, when it received transfer forms  from firm A. 
Hornbuckle has said that as the account was in the name of the trustees  (Hornbuckle), firm P was 
required to seek its approval,  by way of a counter signature, before the transfer took place. As this 
hadnt been done, it said that transfer was unauthorised so it requested that it be reversed. Hornbuckle 
then reiterated that in order for the transfer to complete, the matter regarding  the outstanding 
overpayment also had to be resolved. In January 2017, Mr K returned the overpayment to Hornbuckle 
and the transfer completed. 
Mr K initially complained to our service that Hornbuckle was charging fees whilst not undertaking  any 
work on his behalf. And that it was withdrawing  money from SIPP  bank account without prior notification. 
However, over the period since the complaint has been  with our service, the complaint has 
encompassed Mr Ks concerns about  the transfer.
Ref: DRN02157526The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In summary, the investigator thought that:
The fees and charges  were applied  to the SIPP  in accordance with the signed  terms and 
conditions.
There was evidence to show that invoices  were sent to Mr Ks IFA in 2009 and 2010 and it was 
the IFAs responsibility to make Mr K aware  of these.
The overpayment wasnt repaid until January  2017 and the delay  in the transfer completing  was 
largely due to this. Hornbuckle  was required  to ensure that overpayments were returned to the 
SIPP before the transfer to another  provider could  complete.
Hornbuckle shouldnt have allowed the transfer of the assets within  the SIPP  to take place 
without its knowledge  or authority. The full activity  tracking and continuous monitoring of the 
scheme shouldve prevented this from taking place. So for the trouble  and upset  caused, 
Hornbuckle should pay Mr K £150.
Mr K didnt agree  with the investigators  view. In summary  hes said:  
The award  of just £150  indicates  that the investigator hasnt grasped the seriousness of 
Hornbuckle's errors  and lack of compliance  with the terms and conditions.  
He was forced to make  a payment  to Hornbuckle  who then took a £180 transfer-out fee from his 
account even though it had nothing to transfer.
The contract he had with Hornbuckle  stated that it would continuously monitor  the scheme and 
would provide him with full activity tracking. But it allowed the sum of £130,000 to leave its 
account and it didnt notice the loss of these funds for two and a half months.  
Hornbuckle has taken fees of £9,781.75 in the period from June 2008 to January  2017.  In that 
time hes received only two invoices  in respect of those  fees. 
Hornbuckle cant deny its culpability in this matter and he should be properly  compensated for 
its errors, breach of contract and clear negligence. Hornbuckle cant base its fee structure on a 
contractually binding agreement  and then not comply with fundamental terms of that contract  
whilst, at the same  time,  consistently extracting  fees payable under  the terms of that agreement.
Hornbuckle also didnt agree  with the investigators  view.  It said that the account was owned  by the SIPP 
and not Mr K as an individual. Therefore, instructions issued to firm P required a signature from both 
Hornbuckle (as the trustee) and Mr K. Firm P shouldnt have  acted solely on Mr Ks instruction  as it 
shouldve been aware that the assets were owned by the pension scheme  and Hornbuckle were joint 
owners of the assets. 
As an agreement hasnt  been reached on the matter, the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im likely to reach  a slightly different conclusion to the 
investigator. Ill explain  why. 
Its clear Mr K has strong feelings  about  this complaint  and the relationship between  him and Hornbuckle 
has broken  down. As there are several  aspects  to the complaint, Ive addressed each point separately.  
Failure to issue invoices  before August 2012
If a business  doesnt agree,  and if no exceptional circumstances apply as to why a referral wasnt made 
earlier, I cant  consider a complaint which is referred to us more than six months after the date the final 
response letter is sent. This is set out in Dispute  Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1) which  can be found in the 
regulators handbook  of rules and guidance.  
In 2011, Mr K complained  that Hornbuckle  had been taking fees from his SIPP without notifying him. The 
business issued a final response letter  addressing this issue in August  2012.  The final response 
confirmed that, if Mr K remained unhappy, he was free to refer the matter to this service. It also 
explained that any referral  had to be made within six months.  So Mr K had until February  2013 to 
contact us about this particular issue. However, he didnt  contact our office until 2014, which is out of 
time under  the rules  which I must apply.
Ref: DRN02157527As Ive said above, I can consider complaints referred to us out of time, if the delay was due to 
exceptional circumstances. But Ive not been  made aware  of any reasons that prevented Mr K from 
contacting us within time.  As such, Im minded to conclude that Im unable to consider this particular 
aspect of Mr Ks complaint. 
Failure to issue invoices or statements  August 2012 onwards
When Mr K complained again in 2016, he said that Hornbuckle had continued not to send him invoices 
or notify him before taking money out of his SIPP.  For the reasons  explained above,  I cant  consider any 
concerns Mr K has about invoices not being issued  before  August 2012, as Hornbuckle addressed  these  
in its 2012 final response. But I can look at whether Hornbuckle notified him prior to taking fees from this 
date onwards. Ive set out my thoughts on this below.
Hornbuckle has provided copies  of invoices and valuation  statements which it says were sent to Mr K. 
Its also explained that, prior to 2012,  invoices were sent to Mr Ks appointed  financial adviser.  However, 
it became aware at the end of 2012 that the adviser  had moved premises. Hornbuckle says it didnt have 
a record  of the adviser or Mr K notifying it of the change of address. So to ensure the fee invoices were 
received by Mr K, it updated  its billing system to Mr Ks residential address. Hornbuckle has said that 
from 2012  onwards, invoices and statements  were sent directly to Mr K. 
Ive checked the address on the copies  of the invoices and statements that Hornbuckle has provided  
and this is the same as the one we have on our system. So, on balance,  Im satisfied that these  invoices 
were sent to the correct address. 
But Mr K says he didnt receive  any invoices.  So Ive also taken this into consideration.  However, even  if 
the invoices werent received, I dont think this means this aspect  of the complaint should  be upheld.  I 
say this because Im conscious that Mr K has acknowledged that fees are payable  to the SIPP trustee. 
And these  fees are clearly set out in the fee schedule. So even if Mr K didnt  receive the invoices, Im 
satisfied he knew the fees - including the amount as set out in the fee schedule - would  be debited from 
his SIPP account. 
Fees 
Mr K believes  Hornbuckle  has been  charging him whilst not undertaking any work on his behalf. In 
support of this, hes provided a copy of a statement  showing  the fees that were applied  to his SIPP in 
2015. Mr K thinks these  fees are unfair because he last accessed his SIPP in 2011.  And he says that 
other than to seek clarification and to complain  about the fees, he had no contact with Hornbuckle 
between 2011 and 2016. Mr K also says that Hornbuckle has charged in excess of £3,000 since he last 
took income in 2011 and just under £10,000 in total over the lifetime of the SIPP.   
Firstly, I think  its important to say that the setting of fees for the administration of a SIPP is a commercial 
decision which Hornbuckle is legitimately able to make. By signing the terms and conditions, Mr K 
agreed to be bound  by those terms and the fees set out within them.  Points 5 and 6 of the declaration  Mr 
K signed when he took the SIPP out, state:  
v. In return for the services to be provided, I have received  a copy  of and agree  to pay the charges  
set out in the schedule of fees current at the date of this application together with those  charges 
detailed in the Professional/Financial Advisor section  of this application.  I understand that the 
charges represent  annual fees and will not be refunded  if the scheme is closed at anything other 
than the anniversary  date.
vi. I understand and agree that Hornbuckle Mitchell Trustees Ltd  are entitled to charge fees and 
expenses for administering  my Scheme and that they may amend or increase the fees. I 
understand that l will receive one month's notice in writing of any changes that may affect my 
Scheme. I understand and agree that Fees  are automatically deducted from my Scheme, unless 
I confirm that they are to be paid outside of my Scheme. I confirm  that I am responsible  for 
ensuring funds are available for the payment of the Scheme fees on the due date. If fees are not 
met within 28 days, I understand  and agree that steps  will be taken  to recover the outstanding 
fees and that I will be required to cover  all costs associated with the recovery  of fees.
Ive considered the fee schedule that Hornbuckle  has provided. It clearly sets out the amount that will be 
charged for setting  up, and the ongoing management and administration of the SIPP. It also sets out the 
Ref: DRN02157528costs for the withdrawal of income. Ive compared this to Mr Ks statements and Im satisfied that the 
fees charged, are in line with the schedule.  So I think these fees were correctly applied.
It seems that Mr Ks main  concerns are that hes been  charged an annual drawdown  fee since 2011,  
when he hasnt accessed  funds since this time. And he says that Hornbuckles only interest is to extract 
fees whilst breaching the terms of its contractual  obligations.
Firstly, with regards to the annual drawdown fee, I appreciate that Mr K may not think this fee is fair. But 
the annual drawdown fee is clearly set out in the fee schedule. And the schedule explains that this fee 
applies, after the plan enters drawdown, whether a pension income  is actively drawn or not. So I dont 
think Hornbuckle was inappropriately  charging  this fee after Mr Ks plan entered drawdown in 2011. 
I would also add that it was the responsibility of the business that sold Mr K the SIPP to make him aware 
of any fees he would incur.  If he wasnt made aware of the fees prior to the SIPP starting,  this is a matter 
which Mr K would need to take up with the business  that sold the plan. I dont  think  this is something that 
Hornbuckle can be held responsible for as Im satisfied these fees were clearly  set out in the fee 
schedule.
Mr K may not be happy with the service hes received from Hornbuckle, but in terms of it breaching the 
terms of its contractual obligations, Ive not seen any evidence to support  this. I note that Mr K has 
referenced two particular aspects of Hornbuckles  duties in support of this. Those being  that it 
continuously monitors the scheme assets and provides full activity tracking.
In terms of Hornbuckle continuously monitoring the scheme assets, its explained  that this relates to its 
legal obligation to provide customers with a statutory  money purchase illustration (valuation) at least 
once within a 12 month  period. This also covers  any ad hoc requests  from a customer or financial 
adviser for an up to date valuation. And if Hornbuckle is informed that a particular  investment is 
experiencing problems, it monitors this closely  and takes appropriate action to limit any losses to the 
pension fund.  
Hornbuckle has provided copies  of the valuation  statements it issued to Mr K between 2010 and 2015.  
And Ive not seen anything to suggest that it failed to provide any ad hoc valuations that may have been 
requested. So Im satisfied that Hornbuckle  fulfilled its statutory obligations  in this regard. 
In terms of the full activity  tracking, Mr K has alleged that Hornbuckle failed to carry  out its duties in this 
regard as it didnt notice his investments had transferred.  But this activity  relates  to Hornbuckles daily 
monitoring and reconciliation of the trustee bank account,  in particular cash transactions  and money in 
and out of the account;  this activity doesnt cover the monitoring or tracking the investments. 
The above are only two activities  that Hornbuckle was required to carry  out in return for the annual 
administration fee. Other activities included  completing  the routine administration processes required to 
maintain the plan and its joint regulatory reporting responsibilities. 
Overall, Im satisfied Hornbuckles  fee schedule clearly sets out the fees that apply and Ive not seen 
anything to support Mr Ks allegation that its breached  its contractual  obligations.
Unauthorised transfer
Hornbuckle says that the transfer of the assets shouldnt  have gone ahead  without its consent. And by 
acting on the client only instruction, and not seeking Hornbuckles approval  of the request to transfer, 
firm P didnt follow procedure. As soon as Hornbuckle received the transfer forms from firm A, it realised  
that an unauthorised transfer had occurred  and it immediately requested this be reversed.  
From what Ive seen on file, it appears the scheme assets transferred on 29 July 2016 and Hornbuckle 
became aware of this on or around 8 September 2016 (less than 6 weeks). So Ive thought about 
whether Hornbuckle shouldve  noticed sooner  that the transfer  had taken place.  
Its my understanding that Mr K advised Hornbuckle  of his intention  to transfer in July 2016. But 
Hornbuckle said this wasnt possible until the overpayment had been returned.  However,  for reasons  
that arent clear,  firm P transferred the scheme assets to firm A having only received Mr Ks consent.  
Ref: DRN02157529Mr Ks SIPP was transferred  in-specie.  This means the fund was transferred without the underlying  
investments being sold. This isnt a physical movement of money or assets as only the title and name  
are changed. 
Hornbuckle says its much  harder to monitor an in-specie transfer  and, if its not informed beforehand, it 
says will only find out that a transfer has taken place when it contacts firm P for values or information  on 
the asset held within the scheme. Its also said that it isnt practical  to contact the relevant investment 
firm every month, for all the schemes it holds,  just to establish the value or if the assets are still held 
under the joint ownership of Hornbuckle as trustees.  
But Mr K believes that the transfer shouldve  been picked up sooner by Hornbuckles continuous 
monitoring the scheme assets and full activity tracking.
I can see from the valuation statements Hornbuckle has provided that these were issued in May each 
year. And Hornbuckle had already issued the statement for 2016 when  Mr K initially instigated  the 
transfer. Theres no evidence that an ad-hoc valuation was requested. So it doesnt seem that there was 
an additional requirement  for Hornbuckle  to contact  firm P after obtaining the May 2016 valuations.  As 
such, in terms of the continuous monitoring of the scheme investments, the transfer wouldnt have been 
picked up until such a time as Hornbuckle  was required to contact firm P again, for example, to obtain 
the following years valuations. 
The full activity tracking wouldnt have picked the transfer up as this monitored the trustee bank account;  
not the investments  held within the SIPP. And as the assets  werent sold; they were  transferred in 
specie, no additional  funds wouldve been credited  to the bank  account. As no unexpected funds passed 
through the account, I see no reason why the full activity  tracking  wouldve  picked up the transfer.  
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think its it unreasonable that Hornbuckle  didnt notice  the transfer  
had happened until it received the transfer  forms from firm A. As far as I can tell, the main reason it 
wasnt aware it had happened is because firm P failed to follow proper procedure by acting  solely on Mr 
Ks instruction. Ultimately,  the transfer should  never have  gone ahead  without Hornbuckles authority. 
But it doesnt  seem to me that this was the fault of Hornbuckle.
Delay in the transfer completing  
After Hornbuckle  became  aware that the SIPP  had been transferred without its authority, it immediately 
requested that it be reversed. It then asked Mr K to return the outstanding overpayment. 
Ive not considered how the overpayment came about  as this aspect doesnt form part of this complaint. 
Although Ive noted that Hornbuckle  has acknowledged that it was due to an error  it made. What Ive 
looked at is whether Hornbuckle  is responsible for the delay in the transfer completing. 
Mr K says that he initially advised Hornbuckle  of his intention to transfer in July 2016 but the transfer 
didnt complete until January 2017. Ive seen a letter  from Mr K to Hornbuckle,  dated January 2015. This 
confirmed that hed return the overpayment by the end of that tax year. But Mr K didnt  do this so the 
matter was still outstanding when he initially requested  the transfer in July 2016. 
Hornbuckle initially insisted on the overpayment being repaid before it would allow the transfer. And I 
dont think this was unreasonable. I say this because the information the investigator obtained confirmed 
that the rules regarding overpayments changed in 2015. As such, its my understanding that the 
overpayment needed to be settled with the original provider before the funds could be transferred. 
However, I note that after Mr K provided a letter from HMRC, Hornbuckle did ask firm A if it would be 
willing to accept the transfer and overpayment from Mr K. I dont think  Hornbuckle needed to do this as 
in my view HMRCs letter doesnt say that the overpayment can be made to the new provider.  I 
acknowledge that it says that it wouldnt object if the money was repaid directly into the SIPP or SIPP  
bank account controlled by the provider. But it doesnt address the issue of the provider changing before 
the overpayment issue is settled. This is not to say I disbelieve what  Mr K says he was told this by 
HMRC; I just dont  consider  the actual  wording  of the confirmation letter  supports this.
And in any event, Im conscious that ultimately firm A confirmed to Hornbuckle that it couldnt accept  the 
overpaid income and that this would  have  to be returned to Hornbuckle  before the transfer could 
Ref: DRN021575210complete. As such, I dont agree with Mr Ks comments that by insisting on the overpayment being  
repaid before the SIPP transferred, Hornbuckle was being  obstructive. 
The cause of the delay  was the time it took for the overpayment to be returned so I dont  think  
Hornbuckle is responsible for this. Mr K returned the overpaid contributions in January  2017 and the 
transfer completed the same  month. So Im satisfied  that Hornbuckle processed the transfer in a 
reasonable timeframe after the overpayment  was returned. 
Was it right for Hornbuckle to charge  a transfer fee?
In terms of the £180 fee that Hornbuckle charged to complete the transfer, Ive considered Mr Ks 
comments that this shouldnt have been applied  because the transfer had already gone ahead without 
Hornbuckles involvement. So he believes there  was nothing left for Hornbuckle  to transfer. 
However, I think that this fee was fairly  applied.  For the reasoned explained above,  Im satisfied that the 
transfer shouldnt have gone ahead when  it did in July 2016, without Hornbuckles authority. As it was, 
the transfer was reversed,  but even if this hadnt been the case, it was still necessary for Hornbuckle to 
collate certain  information  regarding the scheme and for this to be forwarded  to firm A. This included,  
amongst other things, details of Mr Ks status in terms of his annual  money  purchase allowance,  details 
of any pension sharing  orders or earmark  orders against any of the benefits.  And details of any transition  
protection in place and crystallised benefits.  Given this, Im satisfied that the transfer-out fee, as set out 
in the fee schedule, is in place to cover these administration costs  so I think  Hornbuckle was entitled to 
charge it.
In summary, I appreciate that Mr K feels very strongly  about his complaint but Ive not seen  anything to 
suggest that Hornbuckle has done anything wrong. So Im not currently minded to uphold the complaint. 
And with regards  to the aspects he raised with Hornbuckle in 2012, Im currently minded to conclude  that 
I cant  consider  these  as they were not referred to our service within the time limits  set out in our rules. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im currently minded  to conclude that I cant consider Mr Ks complaint 
about Hornbuckles failure to issue invoices  prior to 2012.  And I dont intend to uphold the remaining 
aspects of the complaint.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0215752