K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC:
Didnt treat them  fairly when  the term of their mortgage came  to an end.
Unfairly and prematurely started repossession proceedings.
Delayed releasing its charge over the property when the mortgage was repaid.
background
Mr and Mrs N had a part repayment, part interest  only mortgage with Barclays. The term 
ended in May 2017 and the full balance was due to be repaid. Mr and Mrs N had divorced. 
They say as part of the financial settlement they were each required to repay part of the 
mortgage.
After Mrs Ns application to Barclays for a mortgage  to repay her share was declined, she 
applied to another lender.  But in May 2018  Barclays issued a claim for possession. In 
August 2018 Mr and Mrs N repaid the mortgage.  Mr N said he made a loan to Mrs N for her 
share. But Barclays didnt  release the charge it held for a few months.
Mr and Mrs N complain:
Barclays started legal  action when it was not a last resort, contrary to the requirements of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys  (FCA) Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business sourcebook  (MCOB).
Barclays didnt tell the solicitors it instructed all the relevant facts. If it had done so the 
solicitors would have  proceeded differently.
They were only given  four working  days notice of intention  to begin legal action and the 
action actually beginning.
All the correspondence from the solicitors was sent to Mrs N, despite  Barclays knowing 
that Mr N should be the first and only point of contact.
Important letters  were  only sent by first class post.
The notice of legal proceedings  states  that legal proceedings wouldnt start if Mr or Mrs 
N made contact with Barclays. But Mr N says proceedings were issued on 29 May 2018,  
despite the fact he contacted Barclays on 25 May.
Barclays refers to conversations that never  took place and says that it unsuccessfully  
tried to contact Mr N. there is no evidence that Barclays attempted  contact. Mr N was the 
contact and had emailed Barclays regularly.
Barclays actions and those of its solicitors have cost Mr N around £5,000. 
I issued a provisional decision and invited Mr and Mrs N and Barclays  to make  any further 
submissions if they wished. In summary, my provisional findings were:
Ref: DRN04784262As Mr and Mrs N had divorced it was reasonable and in line with good practice for 
Barclays to contact  both Mr and Mrs N. But I hadnt  seen  any evidence that the solicitors 
appointed by Barclays wrote to Mr N separately.
It was reasonable  in the circumstances for Barclays to contact Mr N by phone.
Barclays hadnt communicated in a clear, fair and not misleading way. It was reasonable 
for Mr N to understand that collections activity was on hold  yet Barclays  started legal 
action before the deadline it gave him for an update and after leading  him to believe a 
further hold would be granted. Further, its not clear how Barclays  considers it was really 
at the stage where repossession  was a last resort. The information  it had was that Mrs N 
had an application  in progress. That ought  to have  been  followed up before legal action 
was taken. And of course it knew that Mr N was able to repay  the mortgage in full.
Barclays issued a final response  letter to the complaint within the eight  weeks  it had 
under the relevant rules.  It was required to reply to any follow up correspondence.
It was accepted there was a delay in releasing the charge over the property once the 
mortgage was repaid.
Barclays should have  waited until the deadline  it had given  Mr N and then reviewed the 
position. As Mr N said that Mrs Ns application was still in progress  it might  have been 
fair for Barclays to give them more  time.  The difficulty I had was it wasnt clear why if Mrs 
N was able to obtain a mortgage  she abandoned  her application. I was happy to 
consider any evidence about  why Mrs N abandoned the mortgage application with the 
new lender when she could have mitigated her loss by continuing with the application. 
But as things stood,  I was not minded to say that Barclays should refund the costs she 
incurred as a result of that application.
I was satisfied that if Barclays had set out the correct  position to Mr N that he had the 
resources to repay the mortgage in full  as he eventually did. Without any firm evidence 
that Mrs N would  have  obtained a mortgage  but for Barclays actions, I considered  this is 
what is most likely  to have happened. So I couldnt  ask Barclays  to pay Mr and Mrs N 
any costs they incurred because Mr N repaid the mortgage,  including the solicitors costs  
for preparing a legal charge for Mr N over the property.
Mr and Mrs N had shown that Barclays solicitors added fees to the mortgage balance 
and they say other fees were added   Barclays should clarify  the total amount of fees 
added in respect of the possession proceedings by both it and its solicitors in response 
to this provisional decision.  It should  refund all of those fees. Mr and Mrs N have also 
provided evidence  that their own solicitor issued an invoice for £2,390 for professional  
charges in connection with Barclays possession proceedings.  If Mr and Mrs N provide 
evidence they paid that amount, then Barclays should  refund it. All these amounts should 
be refunded with interest at 8% simple  per year from date of payment to date of 
settlement 
Barclays should pay Mr N £750 and Mrs N £500 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused to them.
Mr and Mrs N responded  make a number  of points:
Ref: DRN04784263Barclays released their charge on 5 November 2018, not in October as Barclays  had 
said.
Mrs Ns application was at a late stage when Barclays instructed solicitors.  The 
mortgage had a low loan-to-value and the accountants certificate and tax returns 
showed that Mrs N had an acceptable income  multiple. They assumed that the lender 
would not have wanted to continue with the application had it been  made  aware that 
Barclays had started  repossession proceedings. Barclays should refund  the mortgage  
application costs.  And the costs of preparing  the legal charge as that was as a direct 
result of Barclays actions.
The compensation for distress and inconvenience falls short  of Mr Ns expectations, but 
Mr and Mrs N would  be prepared to accept  £750  and £500  respectively. They  noted  a 
discrepancy between  the amount awarded  in the body of my decision and the award.
Barclays did not respond or ask for an extension by the deadline given  in my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything and I still consider there were a number of areas where Barclays  
didnt treat Mr and Mrs N fairly  or reasonably:
Its solicitors  didnt  write to Mr N separately  when it started  legal action.
I am prepared to accept that it took until 5 November 2018 for Barclays  to release the 
charge. Although I dont consider that would make  any difference to my award.
In April 2018 when  Mr N spoke  to Barclays it told him Mr or Mrs N would need to contact 
Barclays in 28 days by 25 May. It said as long as they provide an update, collections 
activity will stay on hold. Barclays notes of that conversation do not reflect what was 
discussed. 
Barclays instructed solicitors to begin  legal action on 21 May 2018  before the deadline 
given to Mr N.
Barclays didnt acknowledge the email that Mr N sent on 25 May 2018 or pass  it to its 
solicitors.
It was unfair for Barclays to begin  legal action  when it did. It was not what  it had 
explained to Mr N and it was aware that Mrs N was in the middle  of a mortgage 
application with another lender. Barclays applied an arbitrary  grace period of 12 months 
without giving due consideration  to Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances.
Barclays failed to give Mr N clear, fair and not misleading information  about what was 
happening. And things werent  at a stage  where repossession was necessary. Before it 
started legal  action, it ought  to have followed up with Mrs N on the status of her 
application  and if that wasnt acceptable, explained its position to Mr N and asked him 
to repay  the mortgage.
Ref: DRN04784264I havent upheld  the other  points that Mr and Mrs N have raised  for the reasons I set out in 
my provisional decision. I wont go into those  reasons again as my decision hasnt changed 
and neither Mr and Mrs N or Barclays have  said they dont accept what I said.  
putting things  right
Mr and Mrs N have accepted the redress I proposed in my provisional decision  apart from 
not refunding  the costs from Mrs Ns aborted mortgage and the costs  incurred in Mr N in 
obtaining a legal charge  over the property to reflect that he repaid Mrs Ns share of the 
mortgage.
Mr N says that there was no reason for the lender to decline Mrs Ns application in view of 
the loan-to-value and the income multipliers. Since 2014, more  stringent rules apply to 
lenders in respect of affordability. So the things  Mr N has highlighted wouldnt be enough for 
me to say that Mrs Ns mortgage application  would  ultimately have been successful. Even if 
Barclays hadnt made a mistake,  it doesnt  follow that her application would have been 
successful.
I understand Mr Ns point that a lender might look unfavourably  on Barclays beginning  legal 
action. I can see why that might have  prompted  Mrs N to withdraw her application.  But on 
the other hand,  the lender already knew that the mortgage had passed the end of the agreed 
term and hadnt  been repaid. In my experience  some lenders would be prepared  to consider 
an explanation  from a potential borrower where legal action had begun in these 
circumstances 
While I dont doubt that Mrs N was acting in what she believed  to be her best interests,  
ultimately it was her decision not to proceed with the application. In view of that and as its 
not sufficiently  clear that the mortgage  would have been approved,  I dont consider that 
Barclays should meet the costs of the aborted mortgage application.
It follows, that it is likely that Mr N would have had to repay  the mortgage from his own 
resources  and that he would have  had to take a charge over the property. So I dont 
consider that Barclays should meet those costs.
Mr and Mrs N have provided  evidence  that on 29 August  2018,  they paid solicitors  costs of 
£2,390 in connection with the possession proceedings  taken by Barclays.  They wouldnt 
have had to pay those costs had Barclays acted  fairly. Those costs should  be refunded with 
interest.
Barclays hasnt responded to my request for it to clarify the total amount of fees added in 
respect of possession proceedings by both it and its solicitors. It should confirm  those  
amounts to Mr and Mrs N and refund them, with interest, should they accept my decision.
In my provisional decision I set out two different figures that Barclays should pay Mrs N for 
any distress and inconvenience. The correct figure is £500. I apologise for any confusion.
Mr and Mrs N say they are prepared to accept  my proposed compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. In the absence of any comments or new evidence from Barclays,  I cant  see 
any reason to reach a different conclusion. I consider the amounts I have awarded are fair in 
all the circumstances  and reflect  the different distress and inconvenience  Mr and Mrs N have 
suffered because Barclays didnt treat them fairly 
Ref: DRN04784265my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right.  It 
should:
Refund any fees it or its solicitors acting on its behalf charged in connection with the 
possession proceedings. It should  confirm those amounts to Mr and Mrs N and refund 
them, with interest,  should they accept my decision.
Refund £2,390 that Mr and Mrs N paid to their solicitor on 29 August 2018.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the above  amounts from date of payment to date 
of settlement. If Barclays considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs N how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr and Mrs N a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate
Pay Mr N £750 to reflect the stress,  anxiety,  worry and inconvenience he has suffered as 
a result of this matter.
Pay Mrs N £500 to reflect the stress,  anxiety,  worry and inconvenience she has suffered 
as a result of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2021.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0478426