K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Ms H complain  that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) wont  meet their claim for 
damage caused by a storm. They  say theyve been  discriminated  against  by Aviva.
background
Mr K contacted Aviva in March 2019 to say there had been storm damage  to the family 
home. He explained some  tiles had come off a roof, leaving water running  through  a light 
fitting in the bathroom, and also a fence had been ripped from its fastenings and caused 
extensive damage to his decked patio and some  garden furniture.
Aviva agreed to look at the claim and suggested Mr K move to a video call so he could show 
the agent the damage. Mr K said he couldnt  get into the garden  but agreed to send some 
photos and a quote hed got for the repairs. Aviva  and Mr K discussed the likely replacement 
cost of the furniture   about £2,000. Aviva offered to send someone out to make temporary 
repairs to the roof, but Mr K said he had home  emergency cover from another  provider and 
hed get them to attend.
Mr K sent the photos and a quote for £4,219   which  included repairing the fence, but not 
the cost of replacing the garden  furniture. Aviva had already explained the fence wasnt  
covered under the policy, and Mr K accepted that. But Aviva also thought  the quote was 
high, so it asked  for some  more information.  
That included photos of the damaged garden furniture and some details about when Mr K 
and Ms H bought  the furniture and how much  theyd paid for it. Mr K explained that hed 
disposed of the furniture because it was partly glass and that posed a danger  to his pets and 
children. Mr K doesnt have any photos or receipts  for the furniture,  nor could the shop he 
bought it from help from its own records.
Aviva also said it would get one of its surveyors   a loss adjuster (LA) to visit so it could 
move things forward. About a fortnight later Mr K contacted Aviva to chase up his claim  
and it was only then that the LA started  trying  to make contact with Mr K and Ms H to 
arrange a meeting.
Mr K complained about this and eventually refused to take calls from the LA or talk to the 
agent that had been  handling his claim. Aviva said it could see it had caused a delay  and 
offered £50 compensation for that. But it said it wouldnt do anything  else with the claim itself 
because Mr K and Ms H hadnt shown theyd had an insured loss  because they hadnt 
proved they owned the damaged items nor allowed the LA to visit.
Mr K and Ms H brought their complaint to this service, and said they thought  Aviva  had 
discriminated against them because of their ethnicity.
Our investigator looked at the evidence  provided  by each party,  including  listening to a call 
between Mr K and Aviva.  He didnt find any evidence of discrimination. He also thought  it 
was reasonable  for Aviva to ask for evidence  to support the claim Mr K and Ms H were 
making, and it had done so in line with the terms and conditions in the policy.
Mr K and Ms H remain unhappy about this. They say the conversations  Mr K had might  not 
in themselves have  been discriminatory  but Avivas actions were,  as Mr K believes the agent 
had no intention of getting the LA to visit. He thinks because he isnt a white British  national 
Ref: DRN01948072Aviva is assuming he must have exaggerated the value of the claim, and left him and his 
family living in dangerous conditions.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several parts to this complaint so Ill deal with them  separately
the claim
Mr K and Ms H need to do several  things  in order to make a successful claim.
They need  to show Aviva that theyve  suffered a loss under  whats  called an insurable  
event. In this particular  situation Mr K told Aviva  his and Ms Hs home had been damaged 
by a storm. Aviva accepted that and agreed  to look at the claim,  so I consider they complied 
with this requirement.
Mr K and Ms H also provided  Aviva with details of what had happened. Aviva agreed  that 
most of the damage was covered under the policy, with the exclusion of the fence   and Mr 
K accepted  that in the phone call I listened  to.
Aviva also offered to have  some emergency repairs done to the bathroom roof, which is 
what Id expect it to do, even though  Mr K said he didnt need that. I dont know if Mr K 
arranged the repairs straight away  but if he didnt, I cant  say its Aviva  fault.  Thats 
because it had no control over the repairs, and once Mr K said hed arrange these with 
another insurer.
Aviva asked to see the quote Mr K had obtained.  It told Mr K it would take this into account  
when considering the claim, and that it needed photos of the damage.  Thats  a standard  
approach in the insurance industry,  and Mr K seemed  happy  to co-operate at this point.
Aviva thought the quote Mr K sent in was on the high side,  and that it wanted  to send a 
surveyor (a loss adjuster  - LA) out to check what work was necessary. Again thats common  
when insurers assess claims, especially if its not sure about  exactly what  work is needed.  
There was a delay  in appointing the LA, and Aviva  did fail in its promise  to Mr K that the LA 
would be in touch  the same  day. Having looked  at Avivas internal notes, it seems  there  was 
a mistake made in that the surveyor  wasnt immediately instructed to call Mr K and Ms H. So 
it was only when Mr K called a couple of weeks later that the LA tried to get in touch with 
him. Aviva apologised for not sorting this out sooner,  and offered Mr K and Ms H £50 
compensation. I think that was a fair way to make  up for the delay.
Mr K and Ms Hs policy also says they need to be able to show  they own any items  theyre  
claiming for. There are suggestions as to how a policy holder might do that  with receipts, 
photos or other paperwork. Thats a common term in insurance policies, and I dont think its 
unreasonable for Aviva to ask for proof of ownership for an expensive set of garden 
furniture. Insurers do realise  that receipts arent  always  available,  which  is why they often 
accept photos  etc in support of a claim.  Unfortunately Mr K and Ms H cant  provide  any 
Ref: DRN01948073evidence that they owned the furniture, which they disposed of shortly after the storm. They 
dont seem to have any photos of the furniture   either before or after it was damaged. 
I do understand why Mr K and Ms H had the garden cleared, but it does mean they cant 
now give Aviva  proof they owned it. 
Mr K said he didnt  want the LA to visit, because he didnt think  Aviva  was being fair in 
checking what hed said about the damage  or the cost of repairs. I can understand why he 
would feel that what he said was being  questioned, but that doesnt necessarily make this 
unfair, or unusual. The terms and conditions for Mr K and Ms Hs policy  say that Aviva  need 
only pay the cash equivalent of repairs based on what it would have paid to have the work 
done. Thats  often  less than a member  of the public can get work done for, because Aviva is 
able to negotiate discounts.  So its common for insurers to get one of their own LAs to 
assess the damage and cost of repairs as well as getting quotes from a customer.
We dont know what the LA would have concluded  it may even have been that the claim 
value went up. But even if it went down, I think its reasonable for Aviva to check its limiting 
the amount it pays to settle the claim,  so long as Mr K and Ms Hs property is returned  to the 
same state  it was in before the storm. 
Without some evidence that Mr K and Ms H owned the furniture I wouldnt ask Aviva to pay 
to replace it. And as Mr K and Ms H didnt agree to let the LA visit before they had repairs  
done, I cant ask Aviva  to pay the rest of their claim either, as it hasnt been able to work  out 
the limit of its liabilities.
Overall I think  Aviva  have handled this claim as they would other similar claims, and its 
applied the terms  and conditions of Mr K and Ms Hs policy in a reasonable manner.  
discrimination
Mr K initially  said the agent from Aviva  had discriminated against him during the phone  calls.
Ive listened to the call recording sent by Aviva and I havent  heard anything that suggests 
Mr K was treated unfairly or that the agent was anything  other  than polite and professional.
 
I understand there were more calls that I havent  been able to listen to. But I dont think  this 
prevents me from reaching a conclusion. Thats because Mr K has since said that maybe the 
calls themselves werent discriminatory,  but the agents actions afterwards were.  He says 
the agent had no intention of arranging  the visit from the LA. I havent seen anything  that 
supports that view:  from what  Ive seen Aviva handled this claim as it would do any other.
As I said above, there was a delay  but from the evidence  Ive seen that was caused by a 
mistake rather  than anything deliberate. When an insurer makes  a error like this the right 
thing to do is compensate  Mr K and Ms H for the inconvenience the delay caused  and Im 
satisfied Aviva offered  to do that.
other points
Mr K and Ms H say the process  of making  this claim has been very stressful, at a time when 
Mr K was dealing with his fathers death.  Mr K says also that he suffers from PTSD and this 
has been made worse  by Avivas attitude. Id expect Aviva to take steps to support Mr K and 
Ms H through the claims process  if it knew Mr K was struggling.  But I cant see that he told 
Ref: DRN01948074Aviva about  his bereavement or his health   so Aviva wouldnt know it should take either of 
these things into account. Even if it had known, it would still have been acting reasonably by 
asking for the evidence  it wanted  and it did offer to send the LA out to help with this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, and I make no order against Aviva  
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0194807