K820x#14complaint
Miss J is unhappy with the service provided  by Santander UK Plc when she applied  for a 
loan.
 
background
Miss J applied  for a Santander loan online in February 2019, with the intention of using this 
to buy a car. She received  an email from Santander soon after applying,  saying shed  
receive an answer within two working  days.  
Two days later, Miss J called Santander   but she was told shed actually receive an answer 
within five working days. Miss J was unhappy  with this, and concerned she may lose out on 
the opportunity  to buy the car she wanted. So she decided to look elsewhere for finance, and 
asked for the loan application to be cancelled. She later received a letter from Santander, 
confirming her application had been successful. 
Miss J was unhappy at being initially given incorrect information about how long shed  have 
to wait to receive  a response.  And she was unhappy she received a letter from Santander,  
after shed specifically  asked for the application to be cancelled. 
Santander apologised to Miss J. They explained theyd been experiencing delays 
responding to loan applications at that time,  which is why they didnt meet  their original two 
working day turnaround time. They  offered  £50 in recognition of this. Miss J didnt think  this 
offer was fair so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but he didnt think  it should be upheld.  He felt 
Santanders offer was fair in the circumstances. Miss J disagreed,  so the case has been  
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not upholding this 
complaint. 
It must have been frustrating for Miss J to have expected a response  to her loan application 
in two working days, and to have to chase this up only to have the deadline extended. I 
appreciate she was also worried she may miss out on the opportunity to buy the car she 
wanted.
But Im pleased to see Miss J didnt lose out - she was still able to get car she wanted, 
despite Santanders delay. And shes told us she did this using finance  with a much  better  
interest rate than if shed taken out the Santander loan. So whilst I appreciate  Miss J will 
have been caused some frustration and worry, I cant say she has lost out financially. And I 
cant say further compensation is reasonable in these circumstances for something which 
might have  but didnt   happen.  
Santander has explained that the request to cancel the loan application  was made  outside  of 
business hours. This meant the decision to accept the application  was made  and processed  
before the relevant department knew about  the cancellation. So the letter accepting the 
application had already  been sent out to Miss J. 
Ref: DRN06173102I understand receiving  this letter may have been annoying, especially if Miss J had asked  not 
to receive any paperwork. But I also understand the timescales meaning  the letter was sent 
out by Santander. 
The letter informed Miss J that her application  had been accepted,  but didnt confirm that the 
loan had actually  been set up. So whilst  it may have been frustrating to receive it, Miss J was 
able to ignore  the letter  with no further  consequences. Overall, I dont think further 
compensation is fair or reasonable  here. 
Miss J has said shes lost out, as she had to apply for finance a second  time and has now 
had two credit searches  done, impacting her credit  score. Generally, two searches of this 
nature would be unlikely to have  a significant  effect on Miss Js credit  score.  Even so, I 
would consider whether compensation was appropriate if Id seen  something  to suggest 
Miss J had lost out. 
But Ive seen nothing  which  suggests that Miss Js credit rating has been negatively  affected 
or to show  this second search has caused her any problems  for example  with obtaining 
further credit. Importantly,  Miss J has told us she was unhappy with the interest rate 
Santander was offering,  and she also made  this clear  to Santander when speaking to them. 
So I think its likely she may have looked elsewhere  for finance  anyway, meaning she would 
have had a second credit search carried out. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the £50 offered by Santander is fair and reasonable in 
compensating for the trouble and upset  Miss J has experienced. And I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything further. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0617310