K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly avoided 
their home insurance policy and refused  to pay a claim.
background
In May 2019  I issued  a provisional  decision.  Ive attached a copy  as it forms part of this final 
decision. In it I said why I didnt intend  to make Lloyds reinstate either of Mr and Mrs Rs 
policies, consider their claim  or do anything differently.  I also asked Lloyds and 
Mr and Mrs R if they had anything further to provide before  I made my final decision.
Lloyds didnt have  anything to add. Mr and Mrs R didnt accept my provisional decision.  They  
made a number of points  in response to it. Ive considered them all. Below Ive provided a 
response where I feel its necessary.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Lloyds  
reinstate either of Mr and Mrs Rs policies,  consider  their claim or do anything  differently.
Mr and Mrs R say I havent been provided  with all the relevant emails they sent to this 
service. Id like to reassure them that everything  they provided  has been attached to their 
complaint file. And Ive considered everything  sent in. 
Lloyds received payments from Mr and Mrs R until January 2018. They say it was fraudulent 
for Lloyds  to take these payments. They say I should consider a letter  about  this that they 
provided to this service.  Ive done that. But I dont think  Lloyds  took the payment unfairly or 
fraudulently. The policy wasnt avoided until February 2018. So it was reasonable for Lloyds 
to be taking payments  up until that date. And it refunded all the payments taken for the two 
policies that were avoided.  
Mr and Mrs R say that Lloyds could and should have found out about the subsidence for 
itself - before agreeing  to provide cover  to them. But I dont agree with that. Mr and Mrs R 
were asked questions  about subsidence  and the state of their home.  They are required to 
take reasonable care, when answering,  not to provide incorrect information to Lloyds. When 
they answered no to the subsidence  question, for example, it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
accept their answer.     
The cause of the damage to their home wasnt known  to them  according  to Mr and Mrs R. 
So they say they didnt  provide incorrect information when taking out the two policies. In 
2016 the questions asked  if they had been advised  the damage could have been caused  by 
subsidence. And at the time the property was being monitored for subsidence. I think  they 
were probably aware of that. So they provided incorrect  information  by answering no. And 
Im satisfied they were  aware there was a serious  ongoing issue with their home.  So in 2017  
they provided incorrect information by agreeing their home was in a good state of repair.  
Mr and Mrs R say this service raised the issue of misrepresentation   not them  or Lloyds. I 
dont agree with that. Lloyds avoided their policies because it felt they had provided incorrect 
information about subsidence  at their home. Its decision  letter  to Mr and Mrs R didnt use the 
Ref: DRN06432302word specific  word  misrepresentation. But its clear Lloyds was avoiding  the policies for that 
reason.  
According to Mr and Mrs R Lloyds  shouldnt turn down  claims because  of misrepresentation. 
They have referred to the Financial Conduct  Authoritys requirements for firms  to treat 
customers fairly. Ive considered these rules. Ive also considered  the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012. This allows firms,  in certain  circumstances, to 
refuse claims following  a misrepresentation. Im satisfied Lloyds has refused Mr and Mrs Rs 
in line with that legislation. And I dont think its done so either unfairly or unreasonably.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, Im not making Lloyds reinstate 
either of Mr and Mrs Rs policies, consider their claim or do anything  differently
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN06432303PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds)  unfairly avoided their home 
insurance policy and refused  to pay a claim.
background
In April 2015  Mr and Mrs R took out a Lloyds  home insurance policy. They  took out cover again in 
2016. The policy renewed in 2017. Under  that policy they made  a claim  for subsidence.  
But Lloyds refused  to pay the claim.  It said that when taking out the policies Mr and Mrs R had said 
there wasnt current subsidence damage to their property and that it was in a good state of repair. But 
it had found that information  wasnt correct.  Lloyds  said if it had been given  correct information it 
wouldnt have offered cover.  So it avoided  their policies back to April 2016 (treating them as though 
never existed), refused to deal with the claim  and refunded about  £750 in premiums  they had paid. 
 
Our investigator said Lloyds had acted fairly by avoiding the policies. She said Mr and Mrs R should  
have been aware the property did have subsidence problems. She was satisfied Lloyds  wouldnt have 
offered cover if it had been  given the correct information about that. Mr and Mrs R didnt accept  that. 
So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to make Lloyds reinstate 
Mr and Mrs Rs policies,  consider their claim or do anything differently.
An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying  misrepresentation has been made  in 
line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). But if there isnt a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer cant take any action at all - even if the information  they were  
provided by the consumer was incorrect.
For a qualifying misrepresentation there are two considerations. Firstly  the consumer needs to have failed to 
take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation  (provide incorrect information).  Secondly the insurer 
needs to show that without that misrepresentation it wouldnt have  provided cover at all or it would only have 
done so on different  terms.
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need  to be considered when  deciding whether  a consumer took 
reasonable care. One is the question asked. Its not clear what  was said in any face to face or telephone 
calls when  the policies were  taken out. I havent seen any notes or heard any recordings. But Ive seen 
documents sent to Mr and Mrs R a few weeks before the policy started. These  ask Do you have  any 
damage to the home which you know  is caused by subsidence or have been advised could  be caused by 
subsidence? 
I think  that subsidence question is clear. A reasonable  consumer would understand it. A pre-populated No 
was given.  Mr and Mrs R were warned to check the answers were correct. It was explained  that the policy 
might become invalid if incorrect answers werent  given. And it seems the correct  answer was actually yes. 
But Mr and Mrs R didnt correct the information.
The property had experienced  subsidence  damage ten to fifteen years before. This had been  dealt with by a 
different insurer. But it seems the problem had potentially  reoccurred. Mr and Mrs R had reported it the other 
insurer. It had installed, from about  March 2015, subsidence monitoring equipment  at the property. It was still 
there in April 2016 when this policy  was taken out. So I think its Mr and Mrs R knew there was damage 
caused by subsidence or had been advised it could have been cause. So by not correcting the no they 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN06432304So there was a misrepresentation. But for it to be a qualifying misrepresentation Lloyds needs to show 
without that it wouldnt have offered cover or would only have done  so on different terms.  Its provided  part of 
its underwriting criteria relevant to April 2016. Having  seen this Im satisfied it wouldnt have offered cover at 
all if the correct information  had been provided. That means  there was a qualifying  misrepresentation.  And I 
think Lloyds decision to avoid the April 2016 policy  and refund the premium was fair and reasonable.  
But Lloyds needs to show there was a qualifying  misrepresentation for each contract  of insurance  it wants  to 
take action on. When the policy renewed in April 2017 Mr and Mrs R werent  asked a question about 
subsidence. They werent asked to confirm  or amend any information about it. So I dont think  its fair to say 
there made a misrepresentation by not correctly answering a question  they were  asked about subsidence.
But Lloyds has also referred, to incorrect information being given in that renewal  about  the state of repair of 
the property.  So Ive considered that. Mr and Mrs R were asked Is the home  in a good state of repair? . A 
prepopulated yes was given. Considering the circumstances thats a question a reasonable consumer 
would understand - there was a serious ongoing issue being investigated. Having considered  information  
provided about the potential  subsidence I think the correct answer was no. Looking at the renewal 
documents Lloyds made the possible consequences,  of not providing accurate information, clear.
Lloyds says if Mr and Mrs R had answered no it would have asked  them for more information about the 
property. And if it had been told about the potential subsidence it wouldnt have agreed to provide cover. Im 
satisfied that it wouldnt have. That means there was a qualifying misrepresentation. And I think  Lloyds 
decision to avoid the 2017 policy and refund  the premiums was fair and reasonable.  
So I dont intend to make Lloyds reinstate  either of Mr and Mrs Rs policies,  consider their claim or do 
anything differently.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above  I dont intend to require Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited to do 
anything differently.   
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0643230