K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy.
background
After Mr Ss policy had renewed Admiral  learned  that, rather  than accepting  a motoring 
conviction or fixed penalty, hed been  on a driving improvement course. Admiral said that if it 
had known of that it would have  charged Mr S an additional premium of £295.60.  It charged  
Mr S the additional premium.
Mr S didn't  think that was reasonable and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't 
think Admiral had dealt  with Mr S fairly. She said it should refund  the additional premium and 
add simple interest to that sum.
Admiral didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mr S didn't  think that the amount Admiral charged  him after learning about  his driving course 
was fair. Admiral told us that its statistics show that drivers whove been on driving 
improvement courses are a higher risk than other drivers who haven't  been on such  courses. 
And as Mr S is aware, insurance is essentially an assessment  of risk. So when deciding how 
much to charge  for their policies insurers will make an assessment of the likelihood  that their 
policyholders will make a claim and how much they might have to pay out for those.  And 
insurers will take into account a number of different factors when deciding what  to charge for 
insurance. But generally if the assessment  of risk increases, an insurer may decide  to 
increase the premium.
We're not the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer  how much  it 
can charge for its policies.  Neither  is it my role to tell an insurer  what factors it should  take 
into account when  assessing risk. Different  insurers will have different views on what  
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial judgement 
and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere with. So if Admiral thinks  
drivers whove been on driver improvement courses pose a greater risk than drivers who 
haven't, its entitled to charge a higher premium. And as long as it does this consistently, so 
its not singling  consumers out, I don't think thats  unfair.
I can understand Mr S may not agree  with Admirals assessment of risk. And this isn't the 
approach of all insurers.  But this doesn't mean that Admirals done anything wrong. Its 
entitled to decide its rating  factors (what it bases its premiums on) in response  to its 
assessment of the risks it covers and the market it operates in. And as Ive said above it's 
not for me to tell Admiral  how it should go about  that. So I don't think its approach  to rating  
risk is unfair. But that doesn't mean  it was fair for Admiral to simply charge an additional 
premium in this case.
Mr S should  have told Admiral about the driving  course before his policy  renewed but he 
didn't do so. His mistake  in not doing  so is known in the insurance industry as a careless  
Ref: DRN05826462misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  which sets out what insurers may do in such a 
situation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied). But if the consumer isn't 
happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply impose  an additional premium. But we think its 
reasonable for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres  a problem and give them the 
option of paying the additional premium in order to keep the policy  going or otherwise to 
cancel the policy themselves.
In response to our adjudicators view Admirals argued that CIDRA  doesn't apply to Mr Ss 
circumstances. But as Ive said above, the circumstances here are that Mr S made a 
misrepresentation. And CIDRA is the appropriate  legislation for Admiral to refer to when 
deciding on the remedy when a customer has made a misrepresentation. So Im satisfied 
that CIDRA  does apply.
In this case Admiral charged the additional  premium  without Mr Ss consent.  But CIDRA 
doesn't allow it to do that. And Admiral  didn't offer Mr S the option of cancelling  his policy 
himself. That would have  given Mr S the opportunity to look elsewhere and to see if there  
was another policy  that was more suitable for him. So I don't think Admiral dealt with him 
fairly. And as Mr Ss policy has since lapsed thats  not an option it can give him now. It 
follows that I think the fair thing for Admiral to do is to refund Mr S the additional premium it 
charged. It should  add simple interest  to that from the date(s)  it took payment to the date it 
refunds him.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to: refund the additional premium it charged Mr S after learning hed attended  a 
driving improvement  course. It should add simple interest to the refund at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date(s) it took the additional  premium to the date it pays the refund1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0582646