K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has made a complaint because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited cant offer her daughter 
private treatment in her local area.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of my final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because I thought  the offer AXA had already made 
was fair. 
I explained I didnt  think AXA had mis-sold  the policy because they didnt have a 
responsibility to make  sure the policy was right for Mrs Bs needs. And I was satisfied  the 
membership handbook did make it clear  the NHS was sometimes best placed to provide 
treatment, and the example included paediatric care. AXA didnt decline the claim and I 
thought theyd taken reasonable steps to find a consultant who could  treat Mrs Bs daughter.  
I acknowledged there were failings  in the customer service she received but I thought  a 
refund of the premiums and £100  compensation fairly reflected the trouble and upset  
caused. I asked  AXA and Mrs B to let me know if they had anything  else to add. 
AXA didnt have  anything  further to add. Mrs B said she wouldnt have  taken out the policy  if 
shed known she couldnt use a local hospital  and included  some AXA leaflets. She asked if 
a different ombudsman could  look at the case and referred  me to online guidance about the 
mis-sale of home insurance. Mrs B also queried if Id listened  to the calls as she said shed 
been told Miss B wouldnt have been able to access any treatment until she was 18. Our 
investigator confirmed  Id listened to all the call recordings and the case wouldnt be passed 
to a different  ombudsman.  
So I now need to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs further comments havent  changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. I remain satisfied that AXAs  offer is fair. I say that because:  
As Ive explained in my provisional decision AXA didnt sell the policy so it didnt have 
to ensure the policy met Mrs Bs needs. And I think the information at renewal  did 
make it clear  that sometimes the NHS  is best placed to provide care. So Mrs Bs 
further comments on this point dont change my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint
The leaflet Mrs B has provided says, Fast Track Appointments  we can help you 
see a specialist at a time and place convenient  for you.  She says that isnt true. But, 
as I outlined in my provisional decision,  there is a shortage  of paediatric  
gynaecologists in Mrs Bs area.  So AXA found  the nearest one which was available. I 
appreciate this didnt  meet Mrs Bs expectations of the policy but Im satisfied AXA 
did what they could  to find someone nearby who could  treat Miss B and their actions 
were reasonable
Ref: DRN01489762Mrs B says AXA confirmed Miss B wouldnt have been able to access  any treatment 
until she turned 18. The local hospitals in AXAs network didnt offer treatment to 
children under the age of 18 and AXA did confirm this during their conversations with 
Mrs B. I cant award compensation for what might have happened if Miss B had 
needed to make  a claim for a different type of treatment. My role is to look at what  
actually happened  rather than what might have happened. AXA didnt decline the 
claim  Mrs B wasnt prepared to travel to the hospitals which could offer treatment. 
And it was unfortunate there was a lack of specialists in the area who were  willing  to 
treat Miss B for this condition on a private basis. It doesnt automatically follow that 
Miss B wouldnt have been able to access any treatment at all before the age of 18. 
So this doesnt  change my thoughts about  the outcome of Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint as I think  AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds  offer is fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN01489763copy provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B has made a complaint because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited cant  offer her daughter private 
treatment in her local area. 
background
Mrs B took out private healthcare  for her daughter,  Miss B. The policy was taken out online, through a 
third party website  in September 2016. It was automatically renewed  the following year. After  the 
renewal Miss B was referred to a gynaecologist  by her GP because  she was experiencing stomach 
pains. 
Mrs B phoned  to make  a claim but there werent  any paediatric gynaecologists in their local area. 
Their nearest specialist was approximately  60 miles  away. AXA checked with all the hospitals  in Mrs 
Bs local area to see if they could find a consultant  who Miss B could see on a private  basis but there 
wasnt one available. AXA explained to Mrs B that paediatric gynaecology  services were very limited 
in her local area. 
Mrs B says the policy was mis-sold as she thought Miss B would be able to use her local hospitals. 
She explained that shed have a 120 mile round  trip each  time she needed  to take Miss B to an 
appointment. This would mean Miss B missing school and Mrs B missing work.  She also pointed  out 
that her daughter will now have to wait a long time to be seen on the NHS  and shes in pain whilst 
shes waiting to be seen.  
Mrs B is also unhappy with the service she received including calls being  terminated after shed held 
for a long time, delays,  the online  portal not working  and staff claiming not to have her phone number. 
AXA offered  to refund  Mrs Bs premiums for Miss B and added 8% simple interest on top. They also 
offered £100  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I understand the policy  has 
now been cancelled  and that Mrs B is unhappy that shes lost the no claims discount she built up 
during the life of the policy. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and recommended AXA paid £500 compensation in 
addition to the refund  of the premiums. She said that AXA shouldnt sell a policy that wasnt fit for 
purpose and that AXA had admitted thats what had happened in this case. She thought  Miss B had 
an expectation shed  be able to use local hospitals and both she and Mrs B had experienced 
considerable disappointment. She also concluded that there had been a delay of two weeks as a 
result of AXA looking  for a consultant for Miss B. 
Mrs B didnt think the compensation  was fair and pointed out that Miss B now has an undiagnosed  
condition which will be treated as a pre-existing medical condition if she takes out another policy. 
AXA said they didnt  agree  the policy was mis-sold  as Miss B couldve claimed for lots of other 
medical problems and there was no guarantee a suitable specialist could be found within  a certain  
distance. They referred to the policy handbook which  says: 
Occasionally the NHS will be best placed  to provide  care locally (for example specialist paediatric 
(childrens) care at an NHS centre of excellence.   
AXA also pointed  out they havent declined the claim and Mrs B doesnt want  to travel to see the 
nearest consultant. AXA didnt agree there was a two week delay caused by them as they said they 
told Mrs B within a few days they wouldnt be able to arrange private  treatment for Miss B. 
So I need to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN01489764my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry to hear that Miss B has experienced a lot of pain and discomfort. I can appreciate this has 
been, and continues to be, a worrying time for Miss B and her family. 
did AXA mis-sell  the policy?
 
I dont think its reasonable  to suggest AXA shouldve checked to make sure there were paediatric  
services available  within  a certain distance from Mrs Bs address at the point of sale.  Thats not 
something the rules  or industry guidance require  them to do. And the availability of consultants and 
treatments is also something that changes over time,  for example when consultants leave a hospital 
or move on to a new role. 
Under the relevant rules and industry guidance AXA did have a responsibility to make sure the policy 
was right for Miss B if they provided her with advice  about the suitability of the policy at the point of 
sale. Where  no advice  is given the rules say AXA had a responsibility to ensure  they provided  enough 
information for Mrs B to decide if the policy was right for 
Miss B. Even if think there were failings  in any advice or information provided during the sales 
process I also need to consider whether Mrs B was likely to have acted differently as a result. 
AXA didnt sell the policy as it was taken out online via a third party.  So AXA couldnt have provided 
Mrs B with advice about whether the policy was right for Miss B as they didnt sell it to her. After shed 
bought the policy Mrs B was sent information about it which included  a membership guide, a policy 
schedule and a policy handbook. This provided more detailed information  about how the policy 
worked. So I dont think AXA mis-sold the policy in 2016. 
The policy was automatically renewed a year after it was taken out. AXA wrote to Mrs B about this. 
They sent her an updated  copy of the policy  information, including an updated  membership 
handbook. The letter  reminded her to check the information about the policy carefully. So I dont  think 
AXA gave Mrs B advice about the suitability of this policy for Miss B at the point of renewal.
Ive gone on to consider whether AXA provided  Mrs B with enough information to decide if the policy 
was right for Miss B at the point of renewal. The membership handbook included the following  
information:
Occasionally the NHS will be best placed  to provide  care locally (for example specialist paediatric 
(childrens) care at an NHS centre of excellence.   
So I think AXA did explain  that sometimes the NHS  would be best placed  to give care locally. And I 
note the example given was specialist  paediatric  care. I appreciate the information was on page 10 of 
the handbook. But Mrs B had been reminded  to check the policy carefully in the covering letter. 
Even if this information had been presented more prominently I think  its unlikely to have made  a 
difference to Mrs Bs decision to renew the policy  for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
It is unlikely  Miss B wouldve  been able to access private paediatric gynaecological  treatment even  if 
shed had another insurer.  AXA phoned all of the local NHS and private  hospitals to try and find a 
specialist. But there is a shortage  of specialists in this field who work in her local area. So it is unlikely 
another insurer would have been able to offer Miss B this type of treatment at a local hospital. So, 
even if she was willing  to pay more money for a different policy with another  insurer, its unlikely  shed 
have found a specialist willing to treat Miss B for this issue. 
Ref: DRN01489765There were  also lots of medical problems  Miss B wouldve been covered  for under  this policy. So Miss 
B couldve accessed  other treatment in her local area. But it was unfortunate her local area had 
limited services for paediatric  gynaecology. So Miss B has had the benefit of cover and could have 
successfully claimed for other types of treatment.  
the claim
Under the relevant industry rules and guidance AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. I think AXA has treated Mrs B and Miss B fairly  for the reasons  Ill go on to explain.  
AXA didnt decline  the claim   they were happy to cover the cost of Miss B attending  the nearest 
specialist they could find. Mrs B didnt want to travel such a long distance.  I can understand why she 
didnt want to travel that far but AXA did offer her an option to be seen privately,  albeit it was some 
distance away.
I think  AXA took reasonable  steps  to identify if there were local gynaecologists who would treat Miss 
B. They tried to find a consultant nearer to Miss Bs home. But theres a shortage of paediatric  
gynaecology services  in Mrs Bs local area and there  wasnt anyone who would  see her on a private 
basis. 
The policy terms do say that there may be occasions where the NHS  is best placed  to offer care 
locally and gives specialist paediatric  care as an example. So this is something thats mentioned in 
the information about  the policy and Im satisfied its fair for AXA to rely on that policy  term in the 
circumstances of this case.
Mrs B made the decision to cancel the policy and ask for a refund. AXA were willing to pay the claim 
and explored a range  of options to offer Miss B treatment nearer to her home. So I dont think  its fair 
to say AXA is responsible for Miss B losing  her no claims  discount or for this now being  treated  as a 
pre-existing condition by other insurers.  
Mrs B experienced some problems using  the online  portal. She also mentioned there were  at least 
two occasions where she phoned in and was on hold for some time.  The calls then ended 
unexpectedly and she had to phone back. I can understand how frustrating  this must  have been  at 
such a worrying time. I also think  there was further poor service  as the fast track  team didnt have 
access to Mrs Bs phone number. So as a result  Mrs B got an email, rather than a call, to say the 
nearest hospital who could treat Miss B was sixty miles  away. AXA acknowledged in a later phone  
call that this information  should have been communicated  by phone call. There was also a further call 
in which it was evident  Mrs Bs mobile  number still wasnt on the system. But I think the compensation  
AXA has already offered  fairly reflects the poor service Mrs B received.  
Ive not seen  evidence to suggest there were unreasonable delays on AXAs  part. In the phone  call 
when the claim was authorised  Mrs B was told it could take up to 48 hours to identify a specialist  but 
on rare occasions it could take longer. Unfortunately this was one of those  rare occasions. In a later 
call, AXA also made it clear to Mrs B that they couldnt offer Miss B an appointment anywhere other 
than at the hospital which was 60 miles  away and the next step would  be to escalate the complaint. 
Mrs B phoned  back several days later to ask if any further action had been taken  in relation to finding 
a specialist. AXA confirmed  no further action had been taken and referred her to the previous 
conversation. So I dont think AXA caused  a delay  during this period  of time.
Ref: DRN01489766my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint  as I think the compensation AXA has offered  Mrs B is fair 
and reasonable. Mrs B and AXA should  let me know by 12 February 2019 if they have any other 
information theyd like me to consider which may make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0148976