K821x#15complaint
Mr B complained about the flexible savings  plan (FSP) he was recommended  by Lloyds 
Bank PLC in 1992. He cannot  understand why life and critical illness  cover  was included  
given his circumstances at the time.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 12 February 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Lloyds disagreed with my view, and said:
The Living Cover  Benefit (LCB) was an optional benefit that Mr B selected at the 
point of sale, and he agreed to pay the additional premium of £1.93.  Therefore, it is 
clear that a discussion took place with its advisor
It does not have the point of sale paperwork available due to the time that has 
elapsed, so it is unable to establish what benefits  Mr B had with his employer at the 
time
However someone of Mr Bs age and circumstance may not have stayed  in his 
occupation for the full term of the plan. Therefore, he may well have found the life 
cover and LCB valuable when he no longer had the comprehensive  protection from 
his employee benefits
I stated that I didnt know how its adviser could be sure Mr B wanted to keep making 
payments for a minimum of 10 years given  his age. Surely  this could be said for any 
number of different  products an advisor  sells? The advisor  will always  establish and 
confirm with the customer that the savings benefits of the policy  would not be 
available until maturity  (in this case 25 years) - unless there was a valid claim
This would include  the customer signing a declaration  to confirm he was aware of the 
policys terms and conditions. An advisor cannot  be held accountable for any 
changes in a customers future circumstances
An FSP is not sold with a view to it being  surrendered in the first 10 years;  Mr B 
clearly wanted to save on a regular basis into an investment, across a spread of 
different asset  classes, over a term of 25 years
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  Lloyds additional 
points but I am still satisfied this complaint should  be upheld and for the reasons previously 
outlined.
While an advisor can never be certain of a clients commitment to a long term savings plan, 
s/he was required, even  back in 1992,  to assess whether  something  was likely to be a 
reasonable fit. In my view a long-term  savings plan,  particularly with life cover,   was  unlikely 
to have been a reasonable fit for Mr B who was 21, single and with no dependents; 
someone, who in my view, was unlikely to be able to judge the likelihood of wanting or being 
able to make  a long-term savings commitment.
For a myriad of reasons Mr Bs circumstances,  objectives and financial position was highly  
likely to change,  making  an inflexible savings plan far less appropriate than a flexible one. 
Whether Lloyds marketed or sold such flexible plans,  and without insurance  cover,  there 
Ref: DRN09350262were clearly many such products available at the time  including risk-based ones and 
deposit accounts.
Lloyds argues that any advisor would, by definition, have undertaken various activities to 
ensure the product was a reasonable  fit, and that Mr M would therefore have fully 
understood what he was committing to. But this is not the same as documented evidence  of 
what this specific advisor  did at the time and I dont  believe there  is sufficient evidence  to 
safely say what was discussed at the time.
But, overall, for the reasons  previously outlined, I dont believe this was a reasonable 
recommendation given Mr Bs circumstances. My view about the potential value of the life 
insurance to Mr B at this point in time is unchanged.
I therefore instruct Lloyds  to compare the return Mr B received on his policy with what  he 
might have got via a more suitable  insurance-free savings plan, paying the same monthly 
sums, on the same dates  and for the same period in question.
I cannot safely say what  this plan would have  been or the returns  it might  have achieved. 
Lloyds should  therefore use the standard formula recommended by this service when 
assessing compensation relating to mis-sales  dating back  to this period. This is the Bank of 
Englands base rate plus 1%. If this comparison shows a loss it must pay this loss and add 
8% simple  interest per annum to this figure from the date Mr B surrendered  his plan to the 
date of settlement  of this complaint.
my decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Lloyds  Bank  PLC to pay compensation as outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09350263provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complained about the flexible savings plan he was recommended by Lloyds Bank PLC in 1992.  
He cannot understand why life and critical illness cover was included given  his circumstances  at the 
time.
background
Mr B said that he was in the British military  and enjoyed  generous medical  insurance, death-in-service 
and pension  provision. He simply wanted a flexible  savings  plan and only kept the policy so long 
because the surrender value continued to be so poor.
An adjudicator at this service felt his complaint  should be upheld.
He acknowledged that the life cover  made the policy  qualify for tax relief but still felt there were other 
more suitable products  available at the time without life cover, given Mr Bs circumstances i.e. he was 
21, single with no dependents and was solely  looking for a savings plan.
He couldnt see why Mr B would want to tie himself into a product for 25 years given that he would  
expect changes  to his circumstances, and said the cost of life cover and critical illness brought down 
the investment  performance of the policy. While  it was marketed as a Flexible Savings plan, it 
required a minimum 10 year commitment and the protection elements couldnt be removed. Also,  Mr 
B said he wanted to remove the protection elements but he was stuck with these for the period of the 
investment.
He thought Mr B could  have purchased a PEP for around £25 per month that would have been 
flexible and appropriate.
He therefore felt Lloyds should reimburse  the amount  Mr B had paid for the life and critical illness 
cover along with interest at the required rate.
Lloyds disagreed, and said:
The Life Cover element  was essential in making  the policy qualifying  i.e. the returns  being 
free of tax
Mr B chose the Living Cover option
The Flexible nature  of the plan allowed  the policy to be segmented so he could encash 
segments rather  than the whole  plan
The policy  also offered  the option of adding additional benefits i.e. waiver of premium  and 
Living Cover
Even if had marketed  PEPS in 1992  the minimum  premium would have been £50 a month; it 
is likely  that  this would have been the minimum applicable across the industry; thus making a 
PEP unaffordable
Arguably, Mr Bs circumstances (single  with no dependents)  would make the Living Cover  
benefit more suitable  as he would  have no-one to help him in the event of a critical illness and 
so would  need to pay for any necessary help
Mr B enjoyed a capital  gain of over £5,800 which was made possible due to the qualifying 
status of the policy
While  Life Cover  was not entirely essential,  the small  overall cost (just 3.5% of his total 
monthly contribution) made the maturity proceeds tax-free and gave him peace of mind that 
he had additional  life cover in place
Ref: DRN09350264my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons  so 
I wont repeat all these.
I would also like to add that Lloyds has not taken account of Mr Bs extensive and probably 
comprehensive protection as a result of being a member of the armed services. So even if it was 
reasonable to recommend  that an average young single  person with no dependents should  be 
recommended life and critical illness cover  which I dont accept  there was no justification for Mr B 
having to pay for this.
I also dont see how the advisor could be fairly sure Mr B would want to keep making these  regular 
payments for a minimum of 10 years, given  his age and other circumstances. There were a myriad of 
reasons why someone of his age might  have  decided  not to continue  making these regular payments: 
from becoming unemployed, changing jobs, taking extended  leave, committing to a mortgage, getting 
married, having children  or simply deciding to spend any surplus income.
In my view,  whether Mr B sought to try and change the policy, removing  certain  protection, does not 
impact on the merits  of his complaint.
If the plan was surrendered  within 10 years any returns  would  be taxed at the same level as any other 
investment or deposit account. So I dont accept that the tax qualifying state  after 10 years was 
sufficient justification for the unnecessary cost of the insurance protection. While Mr B kept the plan 
for 23 years, he says this was mainly because of the poor returns which  showed the surrender value 
wasnt worth  taking.
Further, the adjudicator referred to a PEP as a possible  alternative savings plan without  life cover. 
This was just an example;  so whether Mr B could  have found a PEP which allowed just £30 a month 
in contributions does not affect my view of the merits of this complaint. There  were  clearly flexible 
savings options  available in 1992  which did not include life cover so I have no doubt Mr B could have 
acquired one that met his needs without paying for the unnecessary cover.
I dont however agree  with the adjudicators proposed compensation  formula.  If properly advised I do 
not believe Mr B would  have taken out this plan and he could not have done so without  at least one of 
the cover elements (the life cover). So I dont think it is right to simply refund the cost of this 
unnecessary cover. As Lloyds says, he could not have taken out this policy and enjoyed tax-free 
returns without the essential cover.
I therefore  currently intend  to instruct Lloyds  to compare the return  Mr B received  on his policy  with 
what he might  have  got via a more  suitable cover-free savings plan paying these  same monthly  sums, 
on the same  dates for the same period  in question.
I cannot safely say what this plan would  have  been or the returns  it might have achieved.  Lloyds 
should therefore use the standard formula recommended  by this service when assessing 
compensation relating  to mis-sales dating  back to this period. This is the Bank of Englands base rate 
plus 1%. If this comparison shows a loss it must pay this loss and add 8% simple interest per annum 
to this figure from the date Mr B surrendered  his plan to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN09350265my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation  as 
outlined.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0935026