K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Miss C complain about  their mortgage with Barclays. Their relationship has ended  
and they want  Miss C to be taken  off the mortgage but Barclays wont agree. And Mr M 
complains that Barclays wont give him a new interest rate without Miss Cs agreement.
background 
Mr M and Miss C took their mortgage  out in late 2014. They were in a relationship at the time 
and bought the property  jointly.  The mortgage  was taken out through  the Help to Buy 
Guarantee Scheme, a government-backed  mortgage scheme  to enable mortgages at higher 
loan to value than was generally  available.
Barclays said it wasnt possible to remove Miss C from the mortgage. That was because  
their mortgage was part of the government-backed scheme  and it was a condition of that 
scheme that no changes  to the mortgage  could be made for the first seven  years. And it said 
that it couldnt change the interest rate without agreement of them both.  But it offered £150 
compensation because at one stage it thought Mr M might have been given wrong 
information.
Mr M said the mortgage had been mis-sold.  If Barclays had told them about the seven year 
restriction, they wouldnt have taken the mortgage. And its not fair he has to pay the higher 
reversion rate because  Barclays  wont give him a new interest  rate.
Our investigator didnt  think Barclays had acted unfairly. So Mr M asked for an ombudsman  
to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues in this complaint  should Miss C be removed  from the mortgage (and 
if not, was it mis-sold), and should a new interest rate be applied. I will deal with each in turn.
removing Miss C from the mortgage  account
As Ive said,  this is a Help to Buy Guarantee  Mortgage. At the time, in 2013 and 2014, there 
were hardly any mortgages available at loans to value above 80%. The government  believed 
that this was causing problems in the housing  market.  So, it created this scheme.
The scheme operated  by, in effect,  the government insuring higher loan to value loans.  If a 
lender lent a mortgage above 80% loan to value, and the property later had to be 
repossessed, the government guaranteed to protect the lender from most of the losses 
above the 80% threshold. This removed  much of the risk from banks lending  higher loan to 
value mortgages,  and meant they became available again in the market.
However, as part of the guarantee  agreement,  the government issued a detailed set of rules 
 the scheme  rules1  that lenders had to abide by.  
1 The scheme rules  are available  at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/help-to-buy-
mortgage-guarantee-scheme-rules 
Ref: DRN03118862One of the rules, at para 5.2 (a), says that a loan stops being an eligible loan (that is, its no 
longer covered by the guarantee) if any changes are made to the terms of the loan other 
than:
A change to the interest rate;
A change in the lenders general terms and conditions; or
Adding a new borrower who wasnt on the loan originally and taking that borrower 
(but no others) off again.
The guarantee lasts for seven years.
The effect of this rule is that if Barclays allowed Miss C to come off the loan, it would stop 
being eligible  for the guarantee  taking her off isnt one of the allowed changes,  because  
she was on the loan from the start rather than added  later.  And, as the only reason Barclays  
was willing  to agree  to the loan in the first place  at such a high loan to value  was because of 
the guarantee, its not prepared to allow  the guarantee  to be removed. So, it wont allow 
Miss C to be removed while the guarantee still applies.
I think thats a reasonable decision for Barclays to make. I can quite understand why both 
Mr M and Miss C want to move on with their separate lives. They havent been together for 
several years, and much has changed for them since. So naturally Miss C wants  to be free 
of a mortgage and a property she no longer  has any interest in, and Mr M doesnt want  to be 
tied to her any longer.  
However, if that change  was made  it would significantly alter the nature of the loan for 
Barclays. It would stop being covered by the guarantee. Instead of a high loan to value 
mortgage protected by a government guarantee, it would become a high loan to value 
mortgage with the whole  of its significant risk being borne by Barclays.  Barclays wouldnt  
have entered  into the mortgage at all if that was the case. And removing Miss C also 
increases Barclays risk; if something  were to go wrong and the mortgage fall into arrears,  it 
would only have one borrower to try to recover from.
Mr M has said the mortgage was mis-sold, because this condition applied.  And he says his 
solicitor would never have  advised him to take it out had Barclays  made  this condition clear. 
I dont know what the solicitor advised  Mr M. But this condition isnt one imposed by 
Barclays; its part of the (publicly available) scheme rules applicable to all help to buy 
guarantee mortgages, regardless  of lender. And I dont think  its likely that Mr M would have 
decided not to take the mortgage  if he had known about this rule at the time. I say that 
because I doubt  he contemplated separating from Miss C at the time he was buying a house  
with her. And because  given the loan to value  they needed  its unlikely they would have 
been able to get a mortgage at all except through  the scheme. 
So, if they had objected to the rule, that would have meant they wouldnt have been able to 
take the mortgage or buy the property at all. And in any case  while  Barclays was required to 
make clear  the important  features of the mortgage  to them at the time they took it out, I dont 
think it was required to advise them about all possible future scenarios that might have 
happened. Its only with later developments and in hindsight that this rule has become 
important.
I do understand the impact Barclays decision  following the governments  scheme  rules  -
has had on Mr M and Miss C. But I also bear in mind  that the guarantee expires next year in 
Ref: DRN03118863any case. And even  taking into account  the impact of waiting until then on Mr M and Miss C, 
I dont think it would  be fair to ask Barclays to forego the protection  of the guarantee scheme 
to allow  them to make  the change. Nor do I think the mortgage  was mis-sold.
Barclays has said that Mr M can apply for a new mortgage in his sole name,  one not covered 
by the guarantee scheme, which would  replace  this joint one. That might not be possible 
because it would involve  him passing  an affordability  assessment and meeting Barclayss 
lending criteria for a new loan  which might include reducing the balance to lower the loan 
to value. But it could  be something to explore, and something he might  want  to get 
independent financial  advice about. 
the interest rate
Ive said above  that changing  the interest rate is one of the changes allowed under the 
scheme, so in principle  Mr M and Miss C can get a new product on this mortgage.
Barclays terms and conditions say that where you hold an account  in joint names  we shall 
be entitled to accept the signature, instruction  or authority of either of you, unless you advise 
us otherwise.
What this means is that Barclays  can accept an application from Mr M alone, and deem it to 
be on behalf of both of them  unless  either  Mr M or Miss C has told it not to accept 
applications from just one of them.
Ive looked at the contact notes for the mortgage  account. Theres  nothing  to suggest that 
either Mr M or Miss C has told Barclays not to accept applications  from the other.
This means  that Barclays  could accept an application for a new interest rate from Mr M 
alone  unless Miss C tells it not to. Given that Miss C cant be released from the mortgage 
for over a year at least (for the reasons Ive set out above),  and assuming Mr M continues to 
live in the property  and pay the mortgage,  I cant see why it would be in her best interests  to 
refuse to allow a new interest rate application.  If the mortgage  stays  on the reversion rate, 
Mr M struggles to pay it and the mortgage  goes  into arrears, Barclays would  be entitled to 
pursue Miss C for the arrears  and would record them  on her credit  file as well as his. 
Mr M made an application both to remove Miss C from the mortgage and for a new interest 
rate in 2017.  That application was refused because Barclays couldnt remove  Miss C from 
the mortgage while it was in the guarantee scheme.  But theres nothing to stop Mr M 
applying again  now just for a new interest  rate, and making  a separate  application once 
seven years have passed  to remove  Miss C. Barclays has confirmed it will allow  Mr M to 
make an application  for a new rate, and I think thats  fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is Barclays Bank UK PLC has made  a fair and 
reasonable offer to pay Mr M £150 compensation. It should pay that sum if it hasnt already 
done so, but I dont  require it to take any further  action.
Ref: DRN03118864Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0311886