K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of his business  who Ill refer to as company R. Mr C is unhappy  
with Santander  UK Plcs decision to close company Rs account. Hes also unhappy that 
Santander havent provided  company R with the money left in the account.
Background
In November 2017, company R applied for a business current  account  with Santander. As 
part of the application process, Santander asked company R specific questions  relating to 
how they would use the account,  including whether they would use the account to process  
virtual currency  transactions.  Company R responded to the questions  and Santander 
accepted the application  and opened the account.
In May 2018, company R were  contacted  by their server hosting company to let them know 
they hadnt been able to take their payment for hosting. Company R were  informed  their 
servers would be shut down without payment.
Mr C tried to access company Rs account online and realised he couldnt.  So he contacted  
Santander. Santander told Mr C theyd closed company Rs account and said theyd wrote to 
company R on three different occasions.  Mr C explained that he hadnt  received the letters  
Santander confirmed  they were sent to the registered company address and not the 
personal correspondence address they held for him.
Mr C complained to Santander   he said because  he hadnt received the letters, Santander 
hadnt given sufficient notice. And he wanted  access to the money, a refund of the account 
fees and compensation for the reputational damage  company R had suffered.
Santander told Mr C theyd send  him a new cheque  in his personal name to his personal 
correspondence address. Mr C received the cheque,  but it was in the name  of company R. 
Mr C said he couldnt cash this cheque  as he hadnt  been able to open another account for 
company R. 
Mr C brought the complaint to our service. The investigator who looked into the complaint 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong.  He said hed seen evidence  to suggest the 
letters were sent and couldnt hold Santander  responsible if Mr C or company R hadnt 
received them. He also didnt think it was unreasonable Santander chose  to write to the 
registered address  instead of the personal correspondence address. And while he 
recognised Santander had made an error in telling Mr C they could send him a cheque in his 
name, he explained that Santander can only issue a cheque  in the name of company R as 
the money belongs  to them.
Mr C disagreed  he said he didnt receive the letters and thinks Santander should have sent 
them recorded delivery due to the content of them. He also wanted to know why Santander 
chose to open the account for company  R only to close it a few months later.  Mr C thinks  the 
reason Santander  closed  the account is because company R deal with cryptocurrencies  
but he says he informed them of that during  the application. The investigator explained that 
Santander arent obliged to give Mr C a reason for closing the account. Mr C also remained 
unhappy that he didnt have access to the money. He said the only account  hed been  able 
to open for company R was an e-money  account and therefore he couldnt pay a cheque in 
to it.
Ref: DRN08156582As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
Mr C also had a dispute with Santander about an outstanding refund which  the investigator 
commented on, however Mr C chose not to pursue  with this part of his complaint due to the 
amount of money  involved. So I havent considered  this point in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, especially due to the time this complaint has been  ongoing.  Ive 
explained the reasons for my decision further  below.
I trust Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours  is an informal dispute  resolution  service, and Ive concentrated on what  I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered  the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment on any specific  point,  its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it to reach 
the right outcome.
The letters
When Santander made the decision  to close company Rs account, they sent letters to the 
registered company  address.
Initially, Santander told Mr C theyd sent letters in January 2018, March  2018 and May 2018. 
Following the referral to our service, Santander  realised  the letter from January 2018 hadnt 
been sent to Mr C. They say this was an error  and the January 2018 letter initially gave a 
closure date in March  2018. However,  once  they realised this letter hadnt been sent 
successfully, they sent another letter with a new closure date in March 2018.
I appreciate Mr C says he didnt receive  this letter sent in March 2018  he says he has a 
professional office  management company who receive and scan  in the letters company R 
receives. I have no doubt to disbelieve Mr C. However,  Santander have provided a copy  of 
the letter with the date,  address and content  and therefore Im satisfied it was sent.  I 
appreciate Mr C thinks Santander should send  letters like this by recorded delivery  but 
theres no requirement for banks to do that. Just like when they send opening letters, or new 
cards and/or PINs,  normal post is seen  as sufficient. Therefore, it wouldnt be reasonable for 
me to decide  that Santander  should  send a closure  letter by different  means.
Ive thought about Mr Cs comments around  the address  Santander sent the closure  notice 
to. I agree with him it would have been useful for them to send at least an additional copy to 
the preferred correspondence address they held  which was Mr Cs personal address. 
However, Santander sent the letter to a registered  address they held for company R so I 
cant uphold the complaint  on this point alone.
The important factor here is that Im convinced Santander did send the letter  with notice to 
close to an address they held for company R. And therefore, Im satisfied they gave 
company R appropriate notice  to close their account.
The closure and reasons
Ref: DRN08156583Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons,  and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer.  Just the same 
as if Mr C, on behalf of company R, decided to stop banking with Santander, he wouldnt 
have to explain why. Santander can only close accounts in certain  circumstances and if it is 
in the terms and conditions of the account. Santander have  relied on the terms and 
conditions when closing  company Rs business  account. 
This service wont generally  intervene  in a banks commercial  discretion.  Santander  
exercised their right to no longer offer Mr Cs business banking  facilities  and I've seen  
nothing to suggest that Santander has made  an unfair decision. So, I cant  fairly ask them  to 
do anything differently.
Return of the funds
Santander issued  a letter in May 2018  with a cheque  in the name  of company R. I appreciate  
Mr C says company R didnt receive  this letter. Once Santander were aware company R 
hadnt received  this letter, they agreed to send a new cheque  to Mr C directly. Mr C advised 
the Santander advisor that he couldnt  cash  a cheque in company Rs name as he didnt 
have a bank account for company R. The Santander advisor confirmed they could send a 
cheque in Mr Cs name to allow him to cash the cheque directly.
When Santander sent Mr C the cheque, it was in the name of company R. I dont doubt this 
would have been frustrating for Mr C  especially as hed explained the situation to 
Santander. I dont  doubt an error was made by Santander here, and I believe their service 
fell short.  Santander  would only be obliged to send a cheque in the name of company R  
and thats because company R are the legal owners of the money. The same applies  for 
bank transfers, however  Mr C confirmed  he didnt have  another  account for company R so 
this wasnt an option.
I recognise Santander made an error  in telling  Mr C they could send the cheque in his name,  
but it was never a possibility. I think this was a lack of training  and/or understanding  from the 
advisor Mr C spoke  to. But I cant ask Santander to pay compensation for this inconvenience 
to Mr C as I can only consider the inconvenience  and impact  to company R. I dont believe 
there has been an overall impact to company R, and thats because  the money could only be 
released to company R as a limited company and thats what  happened. I cant hold 
Santander responsible for company R being unable to open another account  where  theyre 
able to cash a cheque.
Ive since agreed with Mr C and Santander to make a bank transfer  to another account  in 
company Rs name. While I appreciate company R has been without this money  for a long 
time, Im satisfied Santander tried to give them access to the money on the same day the 
account was closed by issuing a cheque.  And therefore, I cant  fairly ask Santander to pay 
any compensation. I recognise  how Mr C feels about the time its taken  for him to get back  
company Rs money, so Im sorry that it will disappoint him to learn he wont be receiving 
any compensation. 
Compensation and additional refunds
I recognise this has been a really difficult time for company R and I appreciate why Mr C has 
asked for compensation. However, to fairly  ask Santander to pay compensation, Id need to 
be satisfied that they acted  unreasonably. And as Ive explained above, I dont think they 
Ref: DRN08156584have  and where  Ive found they could have done  things differently, I dont think  its had an 
overall impact on company R. 
So, while I recognise  the potential losses company R has suffered, and how difficult this 
whole situation  would  have been, I cant fairly  ask Santander to pay compensation.
I understand Mr C has spent a lot of time and effort on this complaint  and no doubt  he 
feels he is due some personal compensation because of whats happened, and the way 
Santander have  handled things. But I cant consider that. The relationship  Santander had 
was with company  R, not Mr C as a consumer. And the complaint surrounds  what  happened 
to the business account  company R held. In other words, Mr C represents company R, but 
he doesnt have  an applicable customer relationship in his own right. He may feel he and his 
company are one and the same, and this is understandable,  but under the dispute resolution  
rules (DISP)  in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook this is not the case. Simply put, a 
limited company cannot experience personal  distress or upset at the hands of Santander.  
So, Mr Cs distress and frustration are not losses experienced by company R.
Overall
 
Overall, Im satisfied Santander closed  company  Rs account in line with their terms and 
conditions and gave  sufficient notice by sending company R written notice. While I 
appreciate Mr C says company R didnt receive  this letter, Im satisfied it was sent by 
Santander so I cant fairly  uphold  company  Rs complaint  on this point.
Santander closed  the account  and issued a cheque  in company Rs name  with the remaining 
money from the account. I recognise company R couldnt cash  the cheque, but I cant hold 
Santander responsible for that.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf  of 
company R, to accept  or reject my decision before  9 November 2020.
Hayley West
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0815658