K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly refused to 
pay her claim  under  her pet policy.
References to RSA include all its agents.
background
Ms H insured her dog who was born in January 2017 with RSA starting from 11 April 2018. 
The dog became ill in August 2018 and required inpatient  treatment  for vomiting  and 
diarrhoea, which had made him very ill. 
Ms H made a claim  to RSA for the vet costs  of treating her dog for this. RSA assessed the 
claim by asking for the vet history. It said given her dog suffered this type of issue  before the 
policy started, no cover would be provided it. So it wouldnt  pay Ms Hs claim.
Ms H complained as she was of the view that this was something  new and different to what  
her dog had suffered from previously.  RSA wouldnt change its stance so she brought  her 
complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that RSA hadnt  done anything wrong.
Ms H disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to decide, 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Ms Hs policy  with RSA, in common with many  other  pet policies, doesnt provide any cover 
for any issues a pet may have had before the policy started which then reappear during the 
policy term. Ms Hs dog was born in January  2017 but not insured  under this policy until 11 
April 2018 some 16 months later. The level of cover she chose is the called the standard 
level.
The precise wording  of the relevant  policy term in Ms Hs policy is detailed in the Key Facts 
document and in the policy as follows:
We will not pay for:

2. any changes that you or your  vet notices in your pets health  or behaviour before 
the policy starts, we will not pay claims for these changes or any illness  or injury that 
develops from these  changes.
RSA asked for her dogs  vet history in order to asses Ms Hs claim. This is a normal and 
usual industry practice in assessing claims under pet policies, so I dont find it unusual.
In that history it discovered  that Ms Hs dog had suffered vomiting and diarrhoea previously. 
The referral  vet, (which is the local university  school of veterinary studies),  said in the letters 
explaining what treatment  Ms Hs dog had in September 2019, that the diagnosis  was: 
Unknown, possible hepatopathy (liver disease) or inflammatory bowel disease or 
other.
Ref: DRN06115812It went on to say:
Theres a possibility that [dogs name] has inflammatory bowel disease  (IBD)  given 
his chronic soft stools, picky appetite and grass eating followed by this episode  of 
vomiting and inappetance.
The key word is this vets use of the word chronic  as that means  its been  going on for 
some time. 
In the vet history  of Ms Hs ordinary vet, the vet noted on 6 September 2018 that Ms Hs dog 
has had chronic  vomiting for about  12 months.  This would have  come  from what Ms H told 
her vet. So that means this vomiting had been going since September 2017. This is well 
before the policy start of April 2018.
Also on the same date the vet noted chronic vomiting = possible gastric FB, bilious vomiting 
syndrome/food intolerance/inflammatory bowel disease/other. This again uses  this word,  
chronic meaning it has been  going on some time.
On 17 May 2018, the vet noted  the dogs faeces  were  slightly softer than normal.  On the 12 
April 2018, the vet noted that Ms H said her dog had occasional early  morning vomit on an 
empty stomach. On 24 August 2017,  the vet noted that Ms H said her dog had been 
vomiting 2 to 3 times a day since the previous Thursday. And the dog is usually sick twice  a 
week. On 5 September 2018, the vet noted  the dog chronically vomited once or twice a 
week for about a year.  
Whilst I understand Ms H believes the issue in September 2018 was new,  this evidence  
contradicts that. And this evidence  firmly fits into the wording of the exclusion in the policy.  
Clearly, her dog had vomiting issues before  the policy started and clearly, on the balance  of 
probability, her dogs symptoms got worse then necessitating this treatment for which Ms H 
claimed. Ms H hasnt provided  any evidence to contradict this. Issues like possible IBD, 
come on slowly and develop over time too, which further persuades  me that its highly 
probable her dog sadly had these issues before the start of the policy.  
Therefore, I dont think RSA did anything wrong  in refusing to pay this claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0611581