K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA wrongly  rejected a claim under its 
buyer protection scheme,  for a phone she bought that wasnt  as the seller  described it.
background
Mrs H bought a mobile phone  online, and paid for it using PayPal. But when the phone 
arrived, she wasnt able to load her previously used apps onto it. Her banking app wouldnt 
install, and she got a message to say that this was because the phone  had been rooted. 
Shes shown  our service  a screenshot of that message.
Mrs H tried to sort this problem  out with the seller. Shes shown us the messages between 
her and the seller,  where the seller apparently confirms that all our devices are brand new 
and genuine, it should not be pre-rooted . The seller set out a number of steps he wanted 
Mrs H to take to try to solve the problem, which Mrs H apparently  tried to comply with. But 
the seller didnt offer to take the item back.  So Mrs H contacted PayPal, and asked it to help.
PayPal said that the app owner would decide  which apps can be used on a phone.  It said 
that the seller  hadnt proposed a list of compatible  apps  in the listing  for the phone, so the 
listing cant be considered  as misrepresenting the item being sold. PayPal didnt think  that 
the phone  qualified for its buyer protection, because it wasnt significantly not as described.
PayPal then allowed  Mrs H to appeal  its decision,  and refused that appeal  on the basis that 
the phone  had been altered while in Mrs Hs possession. It has said since  that it shouldnt 
have allowed Mrs H to appeal, and it shouldnt have given a different reason for refusing the 
appeal. It still thinks the phone wasnt significantly not as described.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that he thought  that PayPal had misled 
Mrs H by giving the wrong  reason on appeal, but he didnt think  that had affected her, 
because she would  still have continued  her complaint to us. And he didnt think  that the 
delay caused  by PayPal allowing the appeal had caused any disadvantage  either.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think PayPal had made a mistake about  the outcome of the complaint, 
because he didnt think the problems with the phone met PayPals definition of significantly 
not as described.  The phone wasnt actually  listed as new and unused when it was sold. It 
wasnt listed in a different  condition  to how it was received. And it wasnt damaged.  The fact 
that some  apps didnt  work wasnt enough  to say that the phone was missing  major parts  or 
features, or that features mentioned in the listing  werent there. So our adjudicator  said 
PayPal was right to say that the item wasnt different to how it was described.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said that she thought that a smartphone like this should be fit for 
purpose and fully functional. And it wasnt. And she said that shed been denied justice  
because the delay PayPal caused meant  that shed gone over the sellers return window. 
Mrs H wanted a final decision from an ombudsman on her case,  so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN07079102I dont know if the phone that Mrs H got was rooted, or not. Mrs Hs banking app wont 
install, and shes shown  us a message from that app which says that the phone is rooted. 
The seller  has said, in emails sent after the sale, that its brand new and not rooted. Mrs H 
doesnt appear to have  discussed this with her bank, who may have been able to tell her 
whether its app would  be expected to work on this particular smartphone. 
Mrs H sent us a copy of the online  ad for her phone. The ad doesnt  say the phone is new, 
and not rooted. The seller may have  said to Mrs H after the sale that this was a new phone, 
but PayPals definition of significantly  not as described  clearly  states the item has to be 
compared to what the seller  said before  the sale, not after.  So I cant  take that into account.  
I know that Mrs H was expecting a new and unused phone,  but even if the phone wasnt new 
and unused, because it had been rooted, I cant see that the seller had actually 
misrepresented the condition  of the phone prior to sale.  And, like our adjudicator, I dont 
think PayPals definition  of substantially not as described is otherwise met in this case.  So I 
dont think that PayPal made a mistake when it didnt uphold  Mrs Hs buyer protection  claim.
I know that Mrs H says that the delay PayPal caused meant  that shes  now too late to 
pursue a claim through  the sellers return procedure. But I can see that Mrs H had been 
raising the problem  with the seller for just under a month. And she told us that she 
complained to PayPal  out of frustration, when  the seller wasnt doing  anything to help. 
So, unfortunately, I dont think it makes  a difference here that Mrs H may be too late now to 
take this case up with the seller again, after her buyer protection  case  was finally  rejected by 
PayPal. Thats because  I dont think its likely  that the seller wouldve accepted a return  for 
this item and paid Mrs H back in full, even if she had tried to pursue that complaint earlier.
I cant look at everything  thats  gone  wrong  in this transaction. I can only look at what  PayPal 
has offered to do under its buyer protection policy, and see if it has followed that. And I think  
it has. I know Mrs H will be disappointed,  but I dont think  her complaint should be upheld.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0707910