K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that they were  mis-sold  three  decreasing term assurance policies 
(DTA policies) by Lloyds  bank PLC. 
They feel like they didnt  need the cover  because they had adequate cover  in place at the 
time.
background
In October  1982, Mr and Mrs F were advised to take out life cover policy with a third-party  
provider, in respect of a £21,035 mortgage  repayable over 25 years, which  cost £4.52 a 
month.
 
In 1986, Mr and Mrs F were advised to take out two more life cover policies in respect  of 
further borrowing  to extend their existing property and to buy another  property. The policies 
cost £74.46 a month. In February 2007,  the policy provider  confirmed  that the policies were 
cancelled. 
In mid-2019, Mr and Mrs F complained, to our service initially, and then to Lloyds. In the 
absence of a response  from Lloyds,  the complaint was then referred back  to our service.  
In November 2019, Lloyds responded but didnt uphold the complaint. In short,  it said the 
1982 (and 1986) recommendations were suitable  and that life cover was a condition of the 
mortgages at the time. It said this was a common condition with many  mortgage providers 
but if Mr and Mrs F were unhappy, they couldve gone elsewhere.  Lloyds also offered  them  
£50 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to deal with their 
complaint. 
 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. 
Initially, he said:
The 1982 (and 1986) advice given to Mr and Mrs F was appropriate. 
The mortgage offer letter  at point 3b  said that the advance  of the mortgage was 
subject to the Bank having first legal charge over the property and, if applicable, the 
life assurance (policy(ies) stated in the offer document. Lloyds also confirmed that 
life cover was a condition of their mortgage at the time. 
In the event of death or diagnosis  of a specific terminal illness,  the cover  would  pay 
off any outstanding mortgage  leaving the house  mortgage free for the surviving 
spouse/family. 
Although Mr and Mrs F refer to existing  life cover through  an employer, it was only in 
Mr Fs name and for significantly  less cover, so wouldnt have  paid off their 
outstanding debt. And there was no guarantee that the employee benefits wouldnt 
be changed or withdrawn.
Hes seen nothing to suggest that the life policies didnt match  the term and amount 
of the borrowings.  
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the investigators view. They made a substantial number of 
points, but in summary, they said:
The mortgage offer letter dated May 1982  states  Subject to the attached 
conditionsas follows but the reference to life cover is deleted. Section 3 from 
Ref: DRN03145402which the investigator has quoted is in reference  to the legal charge. So, the 
documentation shows that life cover in 1982 wasnt a condition of their borrowing. 
Payments made  in 1982  as evidenced by their bank statement  show that they 
had existing life cover in excess of the outstanding mortgage  amount which  couldve  
been assigned  to Lloyds, and therefore the recommendation was unnecessary.  
The arguments made in respect  of the 1982 policy  apply equally to the latter  1986 
policies.  
If life cover was a condition it should surely be in place before the funds are released. 
The completion of the sale took place in July (as the legal charge shows) however 
the Lloyds letter  dated October 1982  shows that the policy wasnt  in place. 
The investigator has simply  dismissed their arguments regarding their public sector 
life cover and pension. It has a number of benefits, and an employee can also 
designate who (or what)  should benefit from the payments or a lump sum payment.  
The 1982 insurance policy under section 1 says the sum assured will correspond 
approximately to the loan outstanding under the mortgage . 
The public sector pension might have  been a far more appropriate in the 
circumstances.  
Lloyds made  the following key observations in response to Mr and Mrs Fs submissions:
Having reviewed the mortgage offer letter dated May 1982,  it doesnt appear that life 
cover was a condition of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage. 
In the absence of any other documentation  it seems the policy only started  later in 
1982. However, the illustration was completed at the time the mortgage was being 
arranged. 
Nevertheless, it doesnt mean the recommendation wasnt appropriate. Given that it 
was a Pre-A day sale it met its obligations to provide  advice  with reasonable care 
and skill, not to mislead and disclose material information. 
It has a duty of care to advise on cover to protect  debt when security  has been taken 
over the property, to ensure that businesses or individuals dont suffer in the event of 
death or diagnosis  of a specified critical illness.    
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
He relied upon information provided by Lloyds, but it doesnt appear that life cover  
was a condition  at the time. 
The recommendations were still appropriate  for Mr and Mrs F for the purpose of 
protecting their mortgages. 
Whilst the payments  towards an existing policy in 1982 are clear,  the purpose  for it 
isnt. Its possible the cover was for something else and even if it was for life cover, 
hes unable to conclude  that it was appropriate  for the mortgage taken out in 1982. 
The employee benefits that Mr F had was only available for the duration  of his 
employment and there  were  no guarantees. 
These benefits are generally provided for the purposes of a surviving  spouse  or 
partner to maintain  a standard of living, rather than to pay off a specific debt.  Lloyds 
would have been aware of that at the time. 
Mr and Mrs F still disagree with the investigators  view. Theyve submitted a substantial 
number of points  essentially reiterating  and developing their arguments. 
Ref: DRN03145403As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators recent conclusion for much  the same  reasons. 
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. 
Because Mr and Mrs F took out the DTA policies before the Financial Services Act 1986 
came into force in 1988, there were different requirements when giving advice. The common  
law duty to act with reasonable skill and care when making a recommendation applied,  
rather than the suitability requirement  which applied  afterwards. In other words, any 
recommendation had to be appropriate for the consumers circumstances (ie a reasonable 
fit).
 
Therefore, I must consider this complaint  in relation to the rules  and regulations  as they were  
in 1988. At the time Lloyds wasnt required to retain  detailed  paperwork about any 
conversations that took place. Therefore, its understandable that there  may not be 
documentation to show what  specific  advice  was given. So, its no surprise  that given the 
passage of time only a very limited number of documents relating to these  policies is 
available. This isnt something I can blame  Lloyds for.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs F say, Im unable to 
say that the recommendation in 1982  (or in 1986) was inappropriate for them at the time in 
respect of their new mortgage that they were taking. 
But before I explain  why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
and Mrs Fs strength of feeling about  this matter.
Theyve provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr and Mrs F and Lloyds, and reach  what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.  I can confirm that 
I dont need any further information  in order to reach a decision in this case.
Despite what Mr and Mrs F say and their detailed analysis of their bank statements, on 
balance Im unable  to agree with their conclusions  that this proves the recommendation was 
inappropriate. 
Im aware that in 1982,  Life cover  was a common condition amongst many  mortgage 
lenders, particularly for domestic mortgages. But in this case, on the face of the available  
evidence, and on balance, it would seem it wasnt.  But  the complaint doesnt  hinge on life 
cover being  a condition of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN03145404If life cover wasnt  a condition, its possible that the adviser recommended  Mr and Mrs F take 
out life cover to protect their mortgage. If he did it, Im not satisfied that he was wrong to do 
so. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr and Mrs F drew the advisers attention  to any existing 
life cover they had and wanted to use, instead of taking out a new life policy. The adviser 
can only advise on the basis  of the information provided. Im mindful that alternatives were 
considered, and Mr and Mrs F chose the 1982  policy that matched their new mortgage  term 
and amount and overall didnt cost as much as the others. 
I note that Mr and Mrs F say that their old policy was a condition of their previous repayment 
mortgage, this would mean that it probably wasnt appropriate  given the term and amount of 
their new mortgage with Lloyds. 
On the face of the papers it looks like Mr F had a With-Profits life assurance policy  in his 
name only  with a £1,500 sum assured, payable upon death before March  2013. This 
wasnt appropriate for the new mortgage.  
That aside, Im still not persuaded that just because there was a payment of £25.70 in their 
bank statement, it mustve  been  for an existing joint life cover policy. Or that when the 
payments stopped in 1983,  they mustve been  transferred to a different  account from which  
payments continued  to be made  resulting in Mr and Mrs F being over insured.  
It wouldve  been up to Mr F, to cancel his existing life policy if he didnt  still want  it, although 
theres nothing wrong with wanting  additional  cover. It was entirely a matter  for him.  
In the event of Mr F or Mrs F dying before the mortgages were  repaid, the recommended  life 
policies were designed to fully repay the outstanding  borrowing. And the policies were 
designed to go down in line with the outstanding loan amount, over the term of the 
mortgages. So, in the circumstances I don't think the policies were an inappropriate 
recommendation. And given the length  of time that they were maintained, I cant say that Mr 
and Mrs F didnt  meet the affordability  and eligibility  requirements for the policies either.   
With all the borrowings between 1982  and I986 (and even 1989) I would expect Lloyds to 
advise Mr and Mrs F to take out life cover so that in the event  of death the surviving spouse 
is left with a mortgage free property. And thats probably why they chose  to take out cover  
time and again.  
In my view, Mr and Mrs F have drawn conclusions, based upon the available  information, 
which they say proves  that the advice  was inappropriate. But I simply dont agree with the 
conclusions they have reached.
Im mindful of the points made by Mr and Mrs F about employee benefits and I note it was 
only in Mr Fs name. It is the case  that those employee benefits would only have been 
available whilst Mr F remained in that particular employment.  And even if he did stay in that 
employment there was no guarantee that the benefits wouldnt be withdrawn or changed in 
future by his employer. But the policy, in contrast, would continue  to provide cover  as long as 
the premiums were paid.  Despite what Mr F says, Im not persuaded that the employee  
benefits sufficiently  covered  the outstanding mortgages in any case  in the way that a life 
cover policy would.
Ref: DRN03145405I appreciate that a civil service pension can provide a one-off lump  sum or smaller payments, 
but I agree with the investigator that pension payments  are generally intended to help 
maintain a standard of living rather than to pay off mortgage debts. 
I note the points made by Mr and Mrs F about a mis-sale complaint regarding  a packaged 
bank account  that was upheld. But this isnt evidence of mis-selling  regarding  the DTA 
policies. 
I note that Lloyds offered to pay Mr and Mrs F £50 compensation for the delays in 
responding to their complaint. In the circumstances I think  this is fair and reasonable. Im 
mindful that the complaint  started off life as a Payment Protection  Insurance  complaint and 
there was some confusion  following a change in their complaint.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed  Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314540