K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc is acting unfairly and unreasonably in 
refusing to let them repay their mortgage  early without charging an early repayment charge 
(ERC). They want to go to another lender  without  paying the ERC.
background
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage  with Santander,  taken out through  a broker. They felt that its 
service when they visited a branch to deal with a deceased relatives  financial affairs was 
poor. They wanted to repay their own mortgage  early without paying the ERC which would 
be due under the terms and conditions of the mortgage due to their views  of Santander.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Santander.  It said that while it accepted the meeting hadnt 
been satisfactory,  this service didnt expect  lenders  to release consumers from mortgages 
without payment of an ERC if one was due in such circumstances, but rather  to pay 
compensation for trouble  and upset (which had been  done).
Mr and Mrs W complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that the mortgage  offer,  
accepted by Mr and Mrs W and recommended  by a broker, clearly  set out that if the 
mortgage was repaid  early, an ERC  would  be charged (and the amount that would be 
charged). He noted that Santander  had accepted that its service hadnt been  good enough 
and paid compensation, but felt that it would be unreasonable to allow  the legal agreement 
to be over-ridden in the circumstances, particularly as it wasnt  necessary to visit a branch.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They felt Santander had acted without dignity and honour. They  
were also unhappy  that Santander was given extra time to respond to the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint, which  is whether its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs W to be able to repay 
their mortgage early without paying the ERC.
ERCs are a penalty clause and are only legally enforceable  in certain circumstances.  The 
ERC has to be clearly set out to the consumers before the mortgage is taken out, and it must 
be a genuine pre-estimate  of the loss the lender will suffer  if the mortgage is repaid early.  
Mr and Mrs W havent suggested that these conditions havent been met in their case; their 
complaint is that despite the legal  agreement between  them  and Santander, they want to be 
able to repay their mortgage early as theyre so appalled by its conduct  when attending  a 
meeting to discuss a deceased relatives financial affairs.
As a matter  of law, Santander is entitled  to the ERC. Is it fair and reasonable for me to set 
aside the law in this case? I dont think that it is. Compensation has been paid for the event 
which is at the heart of this complaint (which is the subject of a separate complaint to this 
service, so I cant  dealt with this issue).  Santander would suffer  a financial loss if the ERC 
was waived. Being unhappy with the customer  service provided in connection  with a 
relatives financial affairs doesnt justify waiving the ERC, which  is legally binding  and 
shouldve been  explained to Mr and Mrs W by the broker. 
Ref: DRN03786982my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0378698