K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Cumberland Building  Society (Cumberland) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 1996 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for unemployment only   subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £100 a month towards Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £4.49  a month.  
At the time,  Mr B was employed a process  worker. He has told us was entitled to sick pay 
and redundancy  pay and had life cover. Mr B has said had medical conditions at the time of 
the sale. 
Cumberland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 
November 2004.  
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Cumberland failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and      
Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Cumberland  should 
have told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Cumberland  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN09696742The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN09696743I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Cumberland at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Cumberland was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Cumberland gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Cumberland, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN09696744Cumberland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form. There is nothing on this form which would 
indicate that Mr and Mrs B had to take PPI. Rather,  it had a section  for PPI. This presented 
Mr and Mrs B with two equally clear options  as to whether or not to take PPI. I can see that 
Mr B chose to take PPI by selecting the Yes option and Mrs B chose not to take it out. I 
also note that Mr B completed a separate application form and direct debit mandate for PPI. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to be able to conclude that Mr B was pressured into taking 
PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was 
optional and agreed to take it out without  undue pressure.  
did Cumberland  provide advice?
Cumberland says it provided advice during the sale.  Although the PPI questionnaire 
completed by Mr and Mrs B says they dont remember whether  advice  was provided, given 
that the PPI was sold during a meeting  and Cumberland  accepts  it provided  advice, I have  
considered this sale on the basis  that it was advised. 
This means  Cumberland  had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Cumberland took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and     
Mrs Bs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although some 
steps were taken by Cumberland to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs B had a need for 
the policy  by asking Mr B to make certain declarations  I dont think  it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable. This is because the declaration was not enough for 
Cumberland to be able to properly advise Mr and Mrs B, for example, as to whether they 
would have been affected by the exclusions in the policy or whether they had other existing 
repayment provisions  that would have  meant  the policy was not suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Cumberland did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Cumberland advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Cumberland did all it should have done to make sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   Mr B was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Bs finances would be put under strain  if he was not working 
- even allowing  for any redundancy benefits  he was entitled to. The policy  would 
have helped Mr and Mrs B manage the consequences were Mr B unable to work.
Ref: DRN09696745-Although Mr and Mrs B says they were financially  stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
-There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. Mr B was in permanent  employment.  Although  he has told 
us about medical  conditions  he suffered from in 1977 and 1978, these wouldnt have 
impacted his ability to make a claim under the policy because  he had taken out 
unemployment cover  only. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr B be unemployed for 60 days  before 
he could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for 
each claim, it still provided  valuable  cover given: Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, the 
fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments  relating to their home and the 
potential consequences  should Mr and Mrs B be unable to make the repayments on 
loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs B 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Cumberland was recommending to them and make an informed  decision  about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Cumberland gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs B 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Cumberland did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Cumberland gave Mr and    
Mrs B all of the information  they needed about the policy  to make an informed  decision  
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and   
Mrs Bs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN09696746-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Cumberland  ought to have done either. 
what effect did Cumberlands shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent  
did Mr and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Cumberland didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs B. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs B suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs B would have still taken  out the policy, had Cumberland done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Cumberland took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Cumberland had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Cumberland  advised  them  that there 
was a suitable product they could  buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the 
event they were unable because  of unemployment, they concluded  they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN09696747As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Cumberland  told them the exact premium at the 
point Mr and Mrs B applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs B 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Cumberland at the time, or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B was in 
permanent employment.  Although there were restrictions relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions, Mr B would  not have  been affected by these as he had taken out unemployment 
cover alone.  So, I still think  they had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Cumberland may not have told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12 month period.  This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for 
but his statutory redundancy entitlement was significantly less than 12 months  income and 
they didnt have any other means  of meeting the repayments.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs B be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Ref: DRN09696748Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr B were made redundant. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Cumberland should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Cumberland misrepresented  the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Cumberlands  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Cumberland failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Cumberland  gave Mr and 
Ref: DRN09696749Mrs B, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1996  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Cumberland  negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs B and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Cumberland  had been in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0969674