K820x#14complaint
Miss D has complained Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, is holding her 
liable for a loan which  she never applied for.
background
In November 2018 Miss D contacted Likely Loans. She told them shed  not taken out a loan 
for £2,000  in May 2018.  As Miss D didnt respond  to Likely Loans request for further 
evidence, they continued to ask her to pay this debt. By February 2019, this debt stood at 
more than £3,800 as no payments had been received.
Miss D brought  her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  She said this and other loans had 
been taken out without  her consent.  Although the money had gone  into her bank account  
(held with B), she said shed not then completed the transfers sending  this money 
elsewhere.
She explained to us that she believed someone she knew had got hold of her bank details 
and made  use of them. Shed travelled to her ex-partners house and theyd gone through 
her belongings to find her online security and banking details. These had been used to make 
applications for nine loans.  She was now in a desperate position as she was being expected 
to repay  the money.
After a detailed  review of what  had gone  on, our investigator told Miss D he felt shed either 
applied for the loan or knew who had done  so. The money had credited her account with B. 
Transfers had then been made  to new recipients.  At no stage did it look as if Miss D had 
complained to her bank  that someone had misused it.
Miss D said shes  never applied for this loan. Miss D has asked an ombudsman  to consider 
her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 13 November 2020. Overall I felt Miss D had known 
about this loan. Id not been able to get any additional evidence  from her about what had 
been going on.
Likely Loans were  satisfied with this outcome.
In response Miss D explained she had given her ex-boyfriend access to her account  with B 
to enable him to get paid as he didnt  yet have a UK bank account.  It then turned out hed 
sold her account details onwards to a third party. Theyd used it to make numerous loan 
applications in her name and take the money  out of her account with B. She admitted shed 
been very foolish  but didnt believe shed ever benefitted from the loans.
I completed a further provisional decision on 2 February 2021. Id decided there wasnt  
enough evidence  to show Miss D had known  about or applied  for this loan.
Likely Loans accepted the outcome. We heard  nothing further  from Miss D.
I believe I now have enough information  to complete my final decision.
Ref: DRN00787472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as in my later provisional  decision. As I 
received no further  comments from either party, what  follows  is the same reasoning as in 
that decision.
Ive considered Miss Ds detailed letter  to Likely Loans from November 2018. Ive also 
reviewed evidence from Likely Loans including the loan application, along with details  of 
phone conversations for other loans made in Miss Ds name.  Weve  also got evidence from 
Miss Ds bank (B) showing her online and mobile  banking usage. I have now got further 
evidence from Miss D explaining what happened including her relationship  with her ex-
boyfriend. Ive also got evidence from Miss Ds other current account bank and seen  
statements covering  this period of time.
Ive considered the following issues:
The application for this loan was made  using Miss Ds genuine  bank details (which  
Likely Loans also checked). 
The email address and mobile  phone details used in the application dont match  
those that Miss D has used in her correspondence with this service.
Evidence on other complaints raised by Miss D includes  telephone  calls. These 
suggest the person speaking on these calls was more than likely not Miss D.
These facts  alone dont  mean that Miss D didnt apply for the loans but do indicate  this was 
done by someone  who had access to enough information about her; and set these up 
without wanting  to alert her to what was going  on. This could be seen to suggest  she wasnt 
involved with what happened.
Other evidence from B shows  a number of different devices were  linked  to Miss Ds account 
over a prolonged period  and used to access banking services. A number of different IP 
addresses were also used.
Miss D has told us she believed her online banking and security details may have been 
compromised. Ive now got a fuller understanding of what happened here. Id always  
believed Miss Ds account was compromised and that this could have been carried  out by 
someone she knew. This fits with the evidence shes now provided that her ex-boyfriend  
allowed someone else to use her account.  Ive seen nothing, however, to suggest Miss D 
knew about or benefitted from this.
Over a period  from 11 May to 10 July 2018, there were credits to Miss Ds bank account  
which amounted  to more  than £40,000.  During the same period more  than £40,000  was also 
transferred out of the account. Some of the payments into Miss Ds account look as if they 
came from her ex-partner.  This large  amount of activity, out of character  for Miss D, resulted 
in B blocking  Miss Ds account  use.  
Ive also seen statements  for the whole of 2018  from Miss Ds other bank account (with a 
different bank). There is no indication  of any transactions there  that suggest Miss D 
benefitted from any fraudulent loan funds.  Miss D was receiving a regular salary and other 
Ref: DRN00787473credits but nothing to indicate she was getting  money from the loans that I know  were taken 
out in her name. That includes  loans with other companies as well as Likely  Loans.
At no stage  did Miss D raise  any concerns  with B about these transactions.  Its possible 
Miss D continued to use her card and access her account at the same  time as unauthorised 
use was taking place.  
Ive considered Miss Ds point that this all took place without  her knowledge. I initially found 
this hard to believe.  Partly as there were a very large number of loans opened in her name 
using her home address. So I found it odd that Miss D didnt start to appear concerned  when 
lots of loan correspondence started  to arrive at her address.
However its clear she was duped by her boyfriend  at the time who it seems was doing all he 
could to hide what was going  on. I can see from the volume and value of loans being taken 
out that this was a very organised operation. Miss Ds most recent evidence implies clearly  
that her boyfriend may well have got in over his head and scarpered  as soon as things got 
difficult.
The evidence whether Miss D was checking  the status of her account herself with B isnt 
clear. If Miss D had allowed someone  else to use her card and PIN, its likely  that all logons  
could have been done by the individuals carrying out the loan applications. 
I know Miss D never once complained to B about  the misuse of her account. In fact when 
Miss D contacted us, she didnt tell us that B blocked and then closed her account. I can 
understand why B did this but their criteria  Miss D allowing someone else to use her 
account  arent the same  as the criteria we use to judge whether someone applied  for loans 
and benefitted  from the funds.
Having re-considered what happened  here. I think its most likely Miss D was persuaded to 
allow her banking details  to be used. She wouldnt necessarily  have  known exactly what that 
use would  entail. Whilst this would be enough for her bank to withdraw  banking  facilities  from 
her, this doesnt  mean Miss D applied for the loans or had any benefit of the money. 
I note that the overall debt that Miss D will be expected  to repay  is an extremely  large  
amount of money.
Overall and on balance  I believe Miss D didnt apply for this loan. As Likely Loans has no 
contractual agreement  with her and I cant see that Miss D benefitted from the funds, they 
cant ask her to repay the money  or lodge any data about this agreement  on her credit  
record. They  are of course free to take whatever action they feel is appropriate towards 
Miss Ds ex-boyfriend who I believe  was involved with the loan applications and the use of 
the money.
Although a direct debit  was set up to repay this loan, I can see no payments were  made  
towards this loan. Although a single direct  debit was taken on 29 June 2018, it was returned 
unpaid as this coincided with the time period when all the funds had been taken from 
Miss Ds account.
I will be asking  Likely Loans to clear  any information  from Miss Ds credit  record about this 
loan and stop asking her to repay  any debt.  I believe from what  theyve said to us, theyve 
already taken steps to ensure this is done. Im grateful for their prompt  attention.
Ref: DRN00787474my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Oakbrook Finance  Limited,  trading 
as Likely  Loans,  to:
Stop pursuing Miss D for repayment of a loan as she didnt apply  for it; and
Remove any information from her credit  record relating to this loan.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0078747