K822xcomplaint
Mrs P has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AAUICL) 
decision to reject a theft claim she made under her car insurance policy.  Mrs P left her keys 
in her car when the theft happened. 
background 
Mrs P bought a car insurance policy  with AAUICL. In December 2018 Mrs P told AAUICL  
that her car had been stolen. She had pulled up adjacent to a post box to post a card. While 
posting the card, a thief got in her car and drove  away.  
AAUICL rejected Mrs Ps claim. It said its policy had an exclusion for a claim where  shed left 
the keys in the car and her car unattended. AAUICL applied this exclusion. 
Mrs P asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought that because  Mrs P was 
able to stand in front of her car as soon  as she heard the car door close   she hadnt left her 
car unattended as she was in very close proximity to her car. Mrs P said shed looked  to the 
front and rear of her car when she got out and didnt see anyone.  The investigator felt that 
on balance Mrs P had taken reasonable steps to protect her car from loss or damage.  
Mrs P accepted the investigators findings.  AAUICL disagreed. It says the exclusion clearly 
applies in this case. In summary it said:
Mrs Ps policy is subject to an exclusion,  which excludes theft when the keys are 
left in the ignition, which  was brought to her attention  in the policy  booklet.
By Mrs P providing a good description of the offender, doesnt prove that she 
didnt leave the vehicle or keys unattended.
Mrs P clearly  left the keys in her car and the engine  running, and had to open the
drivers door to get to the post box which is on the offside of the car. She also 
states that whilst  she was looking at the collection times, she heard a noise and it 
was when she placed herself in front of the car - she had a good view of the 
offender. The car had effectively been stolen at this point, and Mrs Ps presence  
at the post box did not act a deterrent.
This service provides guidance  which says that a higher degree  of care should  be 
taken where a car is on a public highway. AAUICL believes the circumstances of 
this case closely match an example we give where we would  find it reasonable 
for the insurer to apply  the exclusion.
So AAUICL  would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
Mrs Ps policy with AAUICL highlights the keys in car exclusion as a significant one in the 
policy summary section of her policy booklet. The policy says it wont cover;
Loss or damage to your car arising  from theft when the ignition keys are left 
unattended in or on your car.
Ref: DRN08582192I think AAUICL clearly  set out the keys in car exclusion as significant. 
When we look at these  types of complaints,  we consider all of the circumstances.  We pay 
particular attention to:
where the vehicle was at the time and;
whether the driver was in a position to deter  the thief or make a theft unlikely to take 
place
AAUICL instructed an investigator  to interview  Mrs P and the investigator also provided 
photos of the location  where  the theft took place. 
Based on Mrs Ps description  and the photos,  she was able to park right next to the post box 
which was on a grass verge  on the left hand  side near the road.  Looking  at the distance from 
the drivers door to the post-box indicates Mrs P was as near to her car as going to the boot 
or bonnet.  
Mrs P says she looked around and didnt see anyone near her car before she got out. 
However, it was winter time and in the evening. So visibility wouldnt have been as good  as 
in the day. It is an open road but there are high hedges where its possible the thief was 
standing. Even so, given how near Mrs P was to her car I think  she was in a position to 
make a theft very unlikely to take place. Mrs P said she put her hands  on the bonnet in front 
of the car and was able to give a detailed description  before the thief attempted  to drive 
away  so I think this also demonstrates  how near she was to her car. The thief reversed  
Mrs Ps car and drove  around her while she gave chase for as long as she could. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mrs P didnt leave the keys to her car unattended. So 
I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for AAUICL to pay Mrs Ps theft claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited  to pay the claim subject to the excess  and 
policy limit. It should add interest to the settlement sum at a rate of 8% simple  interest a year 
from the date of the claim to the date it settles  it. 
If AAUICL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs P how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mrs P a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0858219