K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC cancelled  his debit card.  And it wont  explain 
why. 
background
Mr B was on holiday. He received a text from Barclays in December 2018 to say his debit 
card was being replaced. Mr B decided to ignore the text as he wasnt  sure it was legitimate. 
He was on holiday and wouldnt  be using  his card. 
When Mr B returned home  he discovered his existing card no longer worked. It was declined  
while Mr B was making a purchase. And he was extremely embarrassed.  When  Mr B 
contacted Barclays  he was told a replacement card had been issued. But he didnt know 
anything about  it. And a payment had just gone  through on his old card. So he wants  
Barclays to fix their internal processes and improve its communication.  Mr B would also like 
compensation for the embarrassment he suffered.
Barclays said it completes regular security checks on customer accounts. And in this case  it 
believed Mr Bs card details had been  compromised. So it replaced his card to reduce the 
risk of fraud  on his account.
The bank said itd sent two text messages to Mr B to say it was sending  a replacement card. 
And it could  see Mr B was now using  his new card. So it didnt think itd done  anything 
wrong. It was acting in line with its fraud  prevention policies to protect  Mr Bs account.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with Barclays response. So he contacted  our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. Mr B said he didnt receive a second  text. So he looked at 
the banks records.  And it showed Mr B had been sent texts on 19 December and 24 
December about  his replacement card. He explained the payment on Mr Bs cancelled card 
had gone through because it was a recurring  purchase. But any new purchases  on the 
cancelled card wouldve  been declined - which is why Mr B hadnt been  able to use it. 
Mr B wanted  to know why Barclays had cancelled his card.  He hadnt  told them about any 
fraudulent activity. And he didnt receive the second notification.  So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how embarrassing this mustve been for Mr B. His debit card was declined  
while he was in a queue.  He didnt report any fraud  himself. And he wants  to know why 
Barclays chose to cancel  his card. The banks action caused Mr B considerable 
inconvenience.
Barclays first message to Mr B explains that it needed to send him a new card. Although 
there hadnt been any actual fraudulent activity on the account, the bank felt it needed to 
replace the card. It had concerns it mightve been  compromised. 
Ref: DRN04737422Banks wont normally provide details  of any suspicions. Fraudsters are increasingly 
sophisticated. And banks  and other  businesses are constantly responding to new threats 
and challenges.  The measures they take are evolving to meet these threats. So banks have 
taken the decision, for security and commercial  reasons, not to disclose where  they receive 
information from. Or what steps  they are taking to deal with it. And I think  thats the right 
approach. 
I realise its frustrating for Mr B not to know why Barclays felt there was a potential security  
threat to his card details.  But if banks released  too much information  it might increase the 
risk. Fraudsters would know how banks were  trying to stop them gain access to customer 
accounts.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs account  say its important  Barclays can communicate 
safely and quickly  for example if it suspects fraud or to give information about  the account.
And under the section headed keeping your money  safe the terms state Barclays  may 
replace a card with another  card. 
So I cant say Barclays has acted incorrectly in replacing Mr Bs card when it felt there might 
be a danger to its security. And I cant ask Barclays to give any further details about the risk 
it identified. Thats a commercial decision its taken to protect its own security and that of its 
customers. 
Mr B says he didnt receive  the second  message from Barclays about his replacement card.  
And he ignored the initial message as he felt it might be fraudulent.  And I appreciate Mr B 
was abroad and didnt feel there was anything to worry  about. But Barclays  system notes 
show both messages were sent.  So I cant say Barclays  didnt try and inform Mr B that it was 
concerned about  his debit  card. And it was issuing a new one for him to use instead.
I understand the inconvenience and embarrassment this caused. But I havent  seen  anything  
to suggest Barclays  has done anything wrong. It had concerns Mr Bs card details might be 
compromised. So it acted within the terms and conditions of the account by issuing a 
replacement card. And it sent two messages as well as the new card so that Mr B knew 
whatd happened.
Barclays has made the commercial decision not to give information  about its fraud 
prevention processes. And thats not something I can interfere  with. So while I understand 
why Mr B wants  to know further  details  I wont be asking Barclays  to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0473742