K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the time it took to transfer his existing pension  plan to a new pension 
plan. He says Prudential didnt take into account  his objective to secure the value of the 
funds in his existing plan by his retirement date of October 2018. 
background
Mr W held a pension plan that didnt have a draw down facility. So he approached the 
business in March 2018 to ask for some advice about transferring his existing plan to a new 
plan with this facility. A meeting took place and it was decided  that another  meeting would 
take place nearer to his retirement date.
Mr W contacted  Prudential  in August 2018 to ask about the second meeting. He met with the 
business adviser on 4 September 20018. He signed  an authority allowing his adviser to 
seek information about his existing pension  plan. Prudential then requested information from 
his existing plan provider on 13 September 2018. That information  was received on 24 
September 2018. Mr Ws state  retirement  date was 10 October 2018. A suitability report was 
produced on 16 October 2018. The application for the new plan was signed by Mr W on 18 
October 2018. The suitability report was amended on 19 October 2018 with a change in the 
withdrawal amount from 25 percent of the plan value to a lump sum of £10,000. The transfer 
took place on 2 November 2018.
A trading note was sent to Mr W dated 9 November 2018. Mr W made an email complaint  on 
9 November 2018 complaining about  the time it had taken to affect the transfer. He 
complained this was despite having made it clear to the adviser that he was concerned 
about a dip in the market  just before the US mid-terms and so he wanted to sell his units by 
his retirement date in October.  He asked for a refund of the fees he had paid. This was 
followed up with a formal  complaint letter on 16 November 2018.  The business then 
contacted Mr W on 21 November 2018 to confirm the details  of his complaint. He reiterated 
his instructions had not been  carried out as discussed and that he had said from the outset  
he wanted to withdraw  £10,000 rather than the full 25% of the plan. 
Prudential didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Prudential said it hadnt been  made  clear  to its 
adviser that Mr W wanted to protect the value of his plan and transfer it before his retirement 
date. Prudential said if Mr W had made this clear the adviser would have advised him to 
convert his plan to cash. It said the adviser arranged for the transfer as per Mr Ws 
instructions and it wasnt Prudentials fault that the value of the plan had gone down between 
his retirement date and the transfer  date.  
Mr W disagreed.  He said the whole point of the discussion he had with the adviser about the 
mid-term elections was that he wanted to sell the funds in his plan before then.  Mr W also 
said he relied upon the advisers knowledge  about  how long the transfer  would take to 
action. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said she 
thought Mr W was looking to sell the units in his existing plan as close  as possible to his 
retirement date and not before. The investigator said that she thought  it likely  that there had 
been a discussion  about the impact of the US mid-terms  on the fund value and that Mr W 
wanted to protect  his funds from a fall in value. She said Mr W had agreed to wait until closer  
to his retirement age. But the investigator felt he had done so following the advice of 
Prudentials representative and believing the adviser was aware of his priorities  and would 
allow sufficient time to action them. 
Ref: DRN02822332The investigator said Mr W thought the adviser  was still implementing his objective of 
securing his funds  which  is why he gave  the adviser authority to deal with his pension  and 
access all relevant information. She noted there was a small delay after the suitability  report 
was produced and that all together the transfer  process didnt even start until after Mr Ws 
retirement date. 
The investigator said Mr W had lost out as a result  because the value of his funds went  
down significantly after the retirement date. She said Prudential should  pay the difference  in 
value together  with compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused.  But she didnt think 
Prudential should  have to refund its fees as it had carried out Mr Ws transfer. The 
investigator said even,  if the transfer had taken place on his retirement  date Mr W would still 
have had to pay Prudential fees for the work  undertaken.  
Prudential disagreed and said there was nothing in its records to indicate that Mr W wanted  
to protect  the value  of his funds. 
It said the adviser had explained the discussion in March 2018 was was centred around 
whether or not he needed income and/or capital from his pension  at that moment in time 
hence why our conversation led to us agreed to review his finances in more detail nearer to 
his state retirement  age.
Prudential said that during  that meeting Mr W had simply commented on his thoughts  
around the affect that the midterms would  have on the US market, he did not express  any 
urgency to move funds.  He also talked about  his investment experience and that he had 
been running a portfolio of shares for around  15-20 years and very much understood about 
equities, markets  and external influences on performance of these assets and had made  
decisions based on these  under his own judgement.
It said it couldnt see that any advice had been  given to Mr W in March  and its adviser  was 
unable to provide  any advice on his existing pension plan. Prudential  noted its adviser could 
only advise in relation to Prudentials products and that had been  explained  to Mr W at the 
time.
Prudential also pointed  out that a transfer from an external source can take up to around  
eight weeks to process. It said that been explained to Mr W.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W met with Prudential  in March 2018. He was in his mix-sixties and looking for a flexible 
drawn down facility so he could  access money from his pension.  As this was not possible 
under his existing  plan he was looking to transfer  to a new plan which gave him that facility. 
Mr W says he was concerned about  the effect of the mid-term US elections on his fund 
value. So he wanted to make sure that any transfer took place at around the time of his state 
retirement date in October 2018.
Ref: DRN02822333Prudential has said the mid-term elections  were mentioned  at the meeting  in March 2018  but 
it was not made clear  to its adviser that Mr W wanted to protect  the value of his funds. It said 
if that had been made clear its adviser  would have recommended Mr W transfer the funds in 
his plan to cash.
I note Prudential has also said that Mr W explained  he had been running  a portfolio of 
shares for 15- 20 years and he had an understanding of markets and external influences on 
the performance of assets. I can also see from the fact find which recorded Mr Ws financial 
circumstances that Mr W had a fairly  significant  amount invested in shares. So I consider 
these factors support Mr Ws assertion  that he was concerned about the affect of the US 
mid-term elections on the funds in his pension plan as I consider Mr W had some awareness  
of, and interest in, movements in the markets.  
I think it more  likely that Mr W raised  the issue of the mid-terms elections because  he was 
concerned about  protecting  the value of his funds rather than just mentioning it as part of 
general discussion, or in passing.   I note Mr W has consistently said he had informed the 
adviser of his concerns about the impact of the funds. He has said that from the outset when  
he complained-in November 2018- which was shortly after the transfer  took place. I also 
think it unlikely, if it was of such insignificance,  that the adviser would have  remembered    
Mr W talking about the mid-term elections.  
As Mr W didnt have  an immediate need for a lump sum withdrawal Prudentials adviser 
recommended he wait until nearer to his retirement  date in October  2018.  This seems 
sensible as this would allow  Mr Fs funds to remain invested for a bit longer. But I think that 
recommendation would also have had to take into account Mr Fs objectives.
I can see in a file note from the business records in March 2018  it says:
client has no immediate  need for capital or income  at present have recommended we meet  
up again in August in preparation  for his state  pension coming out in Oct.
So I think the October date was relevant  in the discussions which would be in accordance 
with what Mr W has said about that being  the target  date. 
Although I do acknowledge what Prudential has said about the time scales involved in 
carrying an external  transfer I dont  think Mr W would have necessarily been aware of what  
was involved in the transfer  process. In any event  I think Mr W would have relied upon his 
adviser to put the transfer in motion  with sufficient time allowed to meet his objective. 
Mr W says he was expecting to hear from Prudential towards the end of August 2018. This 
would have been around 6 weeks before the desired date of transfer. He said he had been  
assured by the business this would  allow  enough time to complete the transfer on schedule. 
So on around 28 August  he contacted the adviser  to ask when the second meeting was 
going to take place.
I note Prudential accepts  that it was Mr W who contacted the business  but says the adviser 
also had a note to contact him that day. I also note the file note indicated the next meeting 
would take place in August but it didnt take place  until September.  
That meeting took place  on 4 September 2018, some 5-6 weeks  before Mr Ws retirement 
date. A fact find was completed and a suitability  letter was produced.
 
Ref: DRN02822334It was recorded  that Mr W and his wife had a business which  they had been winding down 
over the last few years. They were  planning to sell their home and downsize  to realise some 
capital. Mr W had no need of a regular income as he was in receipt  of state retirement  
income which covered  his monthly  expenditure. It was recorded that Mr W was looking to 
access a tax free lump  sum from his retirement  funds to use for planned works in their home 
and garden.
So whilst Mr W did want to access some  of his pension funds I dont think Mr W had a need 
for the lump sum on a specific date.  I think his main concern was about  the timing  of the sale 
of his funds. 
In the suitability letter Mr Ws investment experience was described as follows:
throughout your working life you have always tried to save/ invest money in the best 
way possible to gain capital, growth  over the long term You have a portfolio of shares  that 
you run yourself Within this you have  seen both losses and gains and feel you have a good 
understanding of how the stock market works You also feel you have a good knowledge of 
property and cash and class yourself  as a moderate  experienced  investor.
So I think this supports what Mr W has said about  being aware of how his funds may be 
affected by the US mid-term elections. 
Even if I am wrong about Mr W having  made his objective clear in the March  meeting, I think  
it likely  he would have been  vocal about  this issue in September  because  the event he was 
concerned about  was impending.
Overall I think  Mr Ws explanation  of his objective  and that he made this clear  to Prudentials  
adviser is credible in the circumstances.  I note it is accepted by the business that some  
discussion took place  around the mid-term elections although it disagrees about the 
significance of that discussion. I also take into account it was Mr W that chased up the 
second meeting  and that he complained very quickly after the transfer took place.  In addition 
he has been consistent in explaining  he stated his concern and his objective to transfer at 
his retirement date.
I also think Mr W may well have thought  having already had one meeting with the adviser-
that the transfer could be put in train fairly swiftly. In addition I note Mr W has said in his 
complaint he wasnt  informed of the timescales and he believed  in September he had signed 
everything required to carry  out the transfer.
I note that it took about 2 weeks from the application form being signed  to the transfer  taking 
place. So I dont think this was a case of the transfer  process being delayed  and lengthy. It 
was more of a question of when it was actioned. Consequently if things had been put in 
motion shortly after the 4 September meeting I think the transfer would probably have taken 
in place in time for Mr Ws retirement date in October. 
I take into account the information was not sought from the provider of Mr Ws existing plan 
until 13 September- some  9 days later. And although the information  was received on 24 
September  the application  was not signed  until 18 October. 
Overall I dont think the transfer process was put in place as quickly  as it should have been 
given Mr Ws stated objective  of protecting his funds from the potential impact  of the US mid-
term elections. 
Ref: DRN02822335I think the transfer was capable  of being  carried out by 10 October  2018 and so Prudential 
should compare  the value  of the funds on that date with the actual transfer value of the 
funds. As the transfer value was reinvested in the new plan Prudential should carry out a 
loss assessment to determine what Mr Ws current pension investments would've achieved  
and pay the difference into his pension plan.
Trouble and upset
I also think Mr W has been caused  trouble and upset because  he ended up with the very 
outcome he had been trying to avoid. I consider the value of his pension plan would have 
been important  to Mr W particularly taking into account his age. I think Mr W would have 
been very disappointed  to receive a significantly  lower  value  than he had anticipated. 
I also note he had to contact the business at the end of August to chase up the transfer 
process and in response to the original  suitability report which  didnt state the correct  
withdrawal amount. 
Overall I agree with the investigator  that £250  is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused. So Prudential should  pay that amount to Mr W. 
Fees 
I consider it was clear  from all the information provided to Mr W including  the suitability letter  
that he would have to pay Prudential fees for carrying  out the transfer and setting up the new 
plan. As Prudentials adviser did meet  with Mr W on two occasions , prepared a fact find and 
suitability letter and effected the transfer and new plan I don t think it would be fair and 
reasonable to say that Prudential should refund the fees paid by Mr W. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ws complaint against  The Prudential  Assurance Company 
Limited is upheld  and it should  pay compensation to Mr W as outlined in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0282233