K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) didnt give him enough notice 
that the interest free period on his credit card balance was coming to an end.
background
Mr O has a credit card account with Tesco, which he has had since March  2012. In 
July 2016, Mr O took up a 0% balance transfer  promotion offered by Tesco.  The 0% interest 
rate ended in January 2018.  
Several months after the interest free period had expired, Mr O complained  to Tesco  about  
having to pay interest  on the outstanding balance on his account. He said that the interest 
free period  expiry date field on his statements was blank,  and that Tesco then removed the 
field altogether in later statements. Mr O argued  Tesco didnt do enough  to make him aware 
of when the interest free period would  end. So, he said it wouldnt be fair for him to start 
making interest payments on the outstanding  balance on his account.
Tesco said that Mr Os November 2017  statement confirmed  that the interest free period on 
his account would expire in January 2018; and that each statement  thereafter set out the 
estimated interest  Mr O would be charged if his balance was not paid in full. Tesco  also 
added that it made a decision  to remove expiry dates from statements altogether, as this 
was not something  that it utilised.
Mr O remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  didnt uphold the complaint.  She said that Tesco  clearly  set out in 
Mr Os statement when the interest free period would  expire,  and so provided Mr O with 
reasonable notice.  The investigator  also said that the way in which  Tesco decided to present 
information in its statements  was something  that this service  couldnt interfere with.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman to review  
his case. He said it was common practice  for banks  to set out the expiry dates of 
promotional offers in statements to act as a reminder for their customers. Mr O also said that 
by virtue of Tesco leaving  the expiry  date field blank in statements and then removing the 
field altogether it caused  confusion, as customers would think that the promotional offer had 
not yet expired. Mr O also added  that he found it unreasonable that Tesco set out the expiry 
date of the interest free period in only one of his statements.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Its not in dispute  that the interest free period on Mr Os balance  transfer  was due to expire in 
January 2018.  What  is in dispute  however is, whether Tesco gave Mr O enough  notice about 
the expiry date of the promotional interest rate.
Other than Mr Os statements, I havent  seen  any other documentation  which  mentions when 
the interest free period on Mr Os balance transfer  would expire. That said,  I have no doubt  
that Mr O wouldve been aware of the expiry date when  he applied  for the balance  transfer in 
July 2016. Based on my experience, promotional interest rates  on balance transfers are for a 
Ref: DRN03357912set period of time. In this case, the interest free period offered by Tesco was for 18 months.  
So I think Mr O wouldve  understood  he would pay a higher rate of interest after this period 
expired.
I appreciate Mr O wouldve found  it helpful if Tesco had provided details of when the interest 
free period  expired in each of his monthly  statements.  He says other banks do this and all of 
his statements prior to November 2017 had a space in which  it could tell him the expiry  date 
of the interest  free period. But there isnt a requirement under the relevant  regulations  for 
Tesco to do this. Ultimately, its the consumers responsibility to manage  their account and 
ensure that they know when any promotional offers theyve agreed  to would expire. If Mr O 
wasnt sure when the promotional rate expired, he couldve asked Tesco about this.
Tesco has said that because the expiry date field in the statements has always  been  blank, it 
made the decision to remove  it altogether. I know Mr O is unhappy about this but it is for 
Tesco to decide  how it presents information in its statements. I also dont think removing the 
expiry date field couldve caused Mr O confusion about whether the promotional  interest  rate 
applicable to his balance transfer  had ended. This is because  the statements he received 
after November 2017 showed the interest  he would pay on the balance. So, this also 
demonstrated the interest free period had ended.
In any event, I cant agree that Tesco didnt make Mr O aware of the expiry  date.  I say this 
because Ive seen  a copy of Mr Os November 2017  statement. It says, amongst other 
things:
Please  note that your promotional  balance  transfer  rate will expire  at the time of your 
January 2018  statement.  The standard monthly variable rate will apply after that date.
Mr O has a responsibility to check his statements and I think the excerpt above made him 
aware of when the offer would end. The above information was easily visible on the first 
page of Mr Os November  2017  statement, and clearly set out that that the standard monthly 
rate would apply  in January 2018. 
Mr O says that it was unreasonable of Tesco to set out the expiry date of the interest free 
period in only his November  2017  statement. But this gave Mr O two months notice of when 
the interest free period would expire.  So, I think he was given a reasonable amount of time 
to decide what  his next steps would be, for example, clear his entire  balance  or apply for 
another balance  transfer elsewhere.
Overall, I dont  think Tesco has treated Mr O unfairly, so Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0335791