K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr F say Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1994.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Barclays has said, but Ive still decided  to uphold Mrs and Mr Fs 
complaint. This is because Barclays recommended  the policy  to Mrs and Mr F, but I dont 
think it was suitable  for them. This is because Mrs F had a pre-existing medical condition 
which could have made it difficult to make  a sickness claim on. The Demands and Needs 
statement at the time suggests that Barclays was aware of this. Barclays says there  was 
enough information on the form, and on documents likely to be given to Mrs and Mr F, to 
make them aware of this limitation.
However, as Barclays was recommending the policy as particularly suited to Mrs and Mr Fs 
needs, they had a greater  duty to make clear the limitations and any reasons why the policy  
might not be fully suitable. I dont have enough evidence to show that it did do this properly. 
I think it likely Mrs and Mr F wouldnt have taken the policy if theyd been properly advised. 
fair compensation
Barclays should put Mrs and Mr F in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Barclays should:
Pay Mrs and Mr F the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mrs and Mr F made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays must give Mrs and Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask 
for one.
Ref: DRN05242272my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Fs complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mrs and Mr F compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0524227