K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about what  British  Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) did when he reported a 
leak.
background
Mr R told us that he called BGI about a leak in his property.  He said that BGI sent someone 
out, but said someone else would have to come  out to fix it, because  the pipe ran 
underneath a concrete  floor. The second visit was going to be in two days  time. But the next 
day the leak ruptured, and Mr R said he had to get some workmen who were in the house  at 
the time to stop the leak and do the repairs. He paid £250 for that. He said that hed been 
having a new kitchen fitted at the time, and it was very lucky  that the section of the kitchen 
which flooded hadnt yet had new units fitted. 
Mr R also said that BGI had blamed this on other people   it said that the problem had 
probably been caused by some workmen who were in the property at the time. And it said 
that it had offered to shut off water in the affected area on its first visit, but Mrs R had said 
no, because they would  lose heating  in part of the house. But Mr R said that wasnt true. She 
hadnt said that, and they had another form of heating in that part of the house anyway. 
BGI said that it did think it was possible the workmen had caused the leak, because there 
was only a small wet patch around  the pipe, which it said generally  indicates that a pipe had 
only recently leaked. It didnt think that it was to blame for the larger  leak which happened 
the next day, and it said that wouldnt have happened at all if Mrs R had accepted  its offer to 
isolate that area of pipe. It wouldnt reimburse  Mr R for the repairs  hed had done.  
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that Mr R and BGI disagreed  about what  had 
happened when  BGI said that it would send someone else out, and whether BGI had offered 
to shut off the water in the affected area. 
Our investigator said that BGI hadnt provided  detailed evidence about what  was discussed  
at the time, like a job report. It was relying on a later statement. Our investigator said that he 
wasnt persuaded about what  BGI had said, based on the evidence  it had offered. It wasnt 
clear that BGI had said what it told us it had said, it wasnt clear that BGI had explained the 
potential impact of leaving  the pipe as it was to Mrs R, and he didnt think that leaving the 
pipe as it was wouldve  been the right thing to do anyway. 
The pipe burst the next day, causing  a very substantial leak.  Our investigator said that Mr R 
didnt have time to wait for BGI to attend.  He had to pay for the work to be done. And our 
investigator thought  that this leak was BGIs responsibility. He didnt think  it was caused  by 
the workmen who were  in the house  at the time.  So he thought  that BGI should  reimburse  
Mr R for the repairs. And it should carry out any further repairs under the policy that might be 
required. 
BGI didnt  agree  with that. It repeated  what it had said about who caused  the leak,  and that it 
had offered to isolate  the pipes. It said that it couldnt provide other evidence  to support what  
had happened  when its engineers attended, because the person responding to our service 
hadnt been there herself, but shed sent a report provided by the local office, and had no 
reason to doubt that. 
Ref: DRN07009032BGI also said that it felt that Mr R couldve asked his workmen to isolate the leak, then 
allowed BGI to complete  the repair the next day. Mr R sent us an invoice for the work hed 
had done.
Because no resolution to this complaint had been agreed, the case  was then passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Mr R has a home emergency policy which provides cover for repairs to his plumbing  and 
drains. BGI hasnt suggested that this leak wasnt covered under his policy, or that any 
excess applies to this work.
Mr R rang BGI, and it attended to repair a leak. BGI has suggested  that this leak couldve 
been caused by the workmen who were at Mr Rs property then. But it doesnt  seem to have 
attempted to rely on this at the time, to suggest it shouldnt do further  repairs. I think that BGI 
had accepted that it was responsible for these repairs. It arranged to attend two days later to 
do the work. 
There is a dispute  over whether BGI offered  to shut off the water in the affected  area before 
it left the property. It says it did, but Mrs R declined that. Mr R has said that Mrs R didnt turn 
down this offer. He also said that the reasons  BGI gave didnt make sense. They  didnt need  
the radiators in this area,  because they had another source of heat.  
Our investigator noted that we have  no contemporaneous evidence from BGI of what was 
said. He suggested  the informal witness statement that BGI provided  after the event was 
less persuasive than a job sheet compiled  at the time wouldve been.  And he also said that 
even if BGI had offered to turn off the water, it shouldve explained to Mrs R clearly just what  
the consequences could be if it didnt do that. There was no evidence that it had done so.
I agree  with these  points.  For those reasons, I think that its not likely that Mrs R did make a 
fully informed decision to leave the water  on in this area. Its not clear  to me, on what  Ive 
seen, that its more likely that she made this decision  at all. 
The pipe ruptured the next day. Mr R had some workmen  in the house  at the time. They  
stopped the immediate leak, cleaned  up the mess, and fixed the problem. Mr R has provided 
an invoice for £250 for this work. 
I think it was entirely reasonable for Mr R to get the workmen who were  present in the 
property to stop the immediate leak, and to clean up the mess. I think that wouldnt have 
been necessary  if BGI had isolated  this area of the propertys plumbing. So I think  BGI 
should pay for this element of the work that Mr R had done.
BGI says that it already  had workmen  booked  to attend the property  the next day. And it has 
said that once  the emergency was over, then it wouldve been possible for Mr R to wait for 
the repairs to be done under his policy. 
Ref: DRN07009033Mr R had other workmen in his property, who were  part-way  through  fitting a new kitchen. I 
can understand why he just wanted the leak to be repaired, without causing  delays  and 
perhaps further costs  with that other work.  
I know that BGI isnt responsible for keeping the costs down on the kitchen work that Mr R 
was having done at the time. But I dont think it would be fair to say that none of this was 
BGIs fault.  It had already  attended once for a small leak, and it didnt take that opportunity  to 
avoid the risk of this worsening, by switching  off the water in the affected area. I also note 
that BGI hasnt had to pay the cost of repairing the leak in Mr Rs home, because he had 
those repairs done. And the cost of that element of the work seems to me likely to be 
relatively modest. I think its unlikely to be significantly more than BGI wouldve paid to make  
these repairs the next day. 
In these circumstances, I agree with our investigator that its reasonable to ask BGI to pay 
the £250 invoice that Mr R has shown  us. 
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr R £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0700903