K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited gave him unsuitable advice to move his 
pension and that it has performed poorly.
Background
In 1991 Mr C was advised  to move  his pension from his employers scheme  to one with 
Phoenix. That transfer was caught  by the review set up the then regulator  and this was 
undertaken in 1999. Phoenix carried out calculations as required by the regulator and 
concluded that Mr C had lost out by transferring his pension. It paid him £1502.66  in full and 
final settlement of any claims he may have against  it.
In 2017 Mr C complained  and said that the payment  wasnt sufficient to cover his loss. He 
said that the poor performance had caused him to move his funds away from Phoenix in 
2012. He added that he had been  told by the consultant who had advised him that he wasnt 
suitably qualified and he said the advice had been wrong on a number of counts. Phoenix 
rejected his complaint and said it had been addressed in 1999. It also said that the 
performance of funds wasnt guaranteed and was dependent on investment returns over the 
term of the policy.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Our adjudicator explained that the pension review was set up in order  to provide redress  to 
consumers whod been mis-sold personal  pension plans. The pension  review and the forms 
of compensation  payable  were specified  by the regulator at the time. Businesses were  
required to carry out the review  in line with the regulators guidance.
The regulator set up the pension review  as it considered that between 29 April 1988 and 30 
June 1994 investors  had been given advice which didnt meet the required standard at the 
time. This advice included  transferring  benefits from a final salary occupational pension  
policy into a personal  pension policy.
Businesses were required to identify cases where non-compliant advice had been given and 
carry out a loss assessment to determine if a loss of retirement benefits had been caused  as 
a result of following the non-compliant advice. In Mr Cs case Phoenix found  that he had lost 
out by transferring his benefits. It calculated  the loss in accordance  with the regulators 
requirements and made Mr C an offer which he accepted and the lump sum was added to 
his pension.
She was satisfied there were no grounds  to believe the review wasnt undertaken correctly 
and it was a one off exercise which she wouldnt expect  Phoenix to revisit. She said she 
couldnt ask it to do any more.
Mr C didnt agree and said he should never have been advised to transfer his pension  and 
the adviser wasnt properly qualified to give him advice. He believed Phoenix had failed in its 
duty of care.  He also said h had moved his pension to another provider in 2012 as he was 
unhappy with the performance
Ref: DRN09541402My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully understand  Mr Cs frustration, but I find myself in agreement  with the adjudicator.  I 
will explain  why.
In short,  the issue  of the mis-sale was addressed in 1999 and Mr C was offered 
compensation which he accepted in full and final settlement. It doesnt matter what the 
possible cause of the mis-sale was, the business  has accepted a mis-sale had occurred and 
paid compensation in line with the requirements of the then regulator. Mr C hasnt provided 
any new evidence that makes a difference to the conclusion reached in 1999  that the policy 
had been mis-sold. The qualifications of the adviser  or the lack of them doesnt change the 
basic premise accepted  by Phoenix  in 1999.
Phoenix was only required to carry out the review once, based on assumptions the regulator 
told it to use at the time (such as on future investment returns).  The fact that these 
assumptions may not have been  achieved  is not grounds to redo the calculation.  I suspect 
Mr Cs true concern is that the redress  paid in 1999 didnt cover the loss he considers he has 
suffered. That may be the case, but the then regulator set out the rules  by which  it was 
calculated and these  were followed by Phoenix. I regret I cannot ask it to do more.  
Mr C has also complained  about  the performance  of the funds  in which  his pension was 
held. Phoenix made no guarantees  as to performance and it exercised its commercial  
judgment in the investment of the various funds. I would add that this service does not 
normally become involved  in disputes  about  the legitimate  exercise of commercial  
judgement and I have  seen  nothing to suggest  that we should  do so on this occasion.
I have every sympathy with Mr C and I can appreciate he may feel hard done by, but I am 
unable to uphold  his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 
11 October 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0954140