K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage in 1989. At this stage they didnt take out any PPI.
In March 1990 they took out PPI to protect  their monthly repayments when they arranged 
some extra borrowing on their mortgage account.  The policy  provided  them  with accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover for Mr K. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs K disagree. 
They mainly  told us that they werent informed of the full policy exclusions and say they 
werent in a position to make an informed choice  about whether the policy  met their needs. 
They also told us they had other  means to rely on if they werent  working.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available.  
But I wouldnt expect Nationwide or Mr and Mrs K to have kept this. And, after so long, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs K to recall in detail what, if anything,  was said 
about the PPI at the time.  
I have to look at the available  information  and decide what  I think is most likely. 
PPI was taken out to protect Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage a year or so after their mortgage had 
been set up without PPI. Ive seen a copy of the application they filled in when they applied 
for a further advance  on their mortgage to cover the cost of some home improvements. They 
ticked their application  to say they wanted  to take out a policy  that covered Mr K. I can 
completely understand if Mr and Mrs K have now forgotten these details. But I think they 
wouldve understood at the time that PPI wasnt required for their further advance  in 1990 
and that it was up to them  to apply  for cover  if they wanted to have  it.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ks home wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  repayments  were 
protected even  if they couldnt  work. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On 
balance, even if they hadnt  wanted  it before, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs K 
decided they wanted to have the benefits  that PPI offered them  when they took out this extra  
borrowing and they chose to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN06624512Nationwide says it didnt  advise Mr and Mrs K to take out the policy.  But Ive looked carefully 
at whether it gave them  clear, fair and not misleading information  so they could decide for 
themselves if they wanted to have PPI.
Mr K was eligible for the policy.  Ive taken into account what Mr K told us about his sick pay 
entitlement through work.  But the policy wouldve covered him for longer than he couldve 
depended on getting sick pay from his main employer. The policy  wouldve paid out for up to 
24 months per claim if he was off work  as a result of accident  or sickness . It wouldve paid 
out on top of sick pay providing a useful benefit  at whats likely  to have been a difficult time  
especially if Mr and Mrs K mightve faced extra costs as a result of Mr K falling ill or 
becoming disabled.  
In addition to this, PPI wouldve also paid out if Mr K became unexpectedly unemployed. Ive 
taken into account  that Mr K also worked  four hours per week doing other  part time work. 
But the mortgage was based on his earnings  from his main full time job. So I think  its likely 
that losing  his income from that employment  wouldve had a significant impact  on 
Mr and Mrs Ks joint finances. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs K long term protection.  And other insurance 
they mentioned  having provided a different  sort of cover and paid out in different 
circumstances to PPI.
Based on everything  Ive seen about  their circumstances at the time, I think the policy 
offered a range of benefits to Mr and Mrs K. 
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But they werent affected  by any of the main  conditions limiting the 
policys benefits. So I dont think clearer  information  about what  the policy didnt  cover  
wouldve put them off buying the PPI. And I dont think Mr K wouldve had any difficulty 
claiming on the policy if hed needed to  which Nationwide says he did successfully in 1994. 
I dont know if or how the policy costs  were explained to Mr and Mrs K when they took it out. 
But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt  affordable  for them  when they applied 
for the policy. And they chose  to take it out when they didnt have to  so it looks  like they 
were happy  to pay for PPI at the time,  even  if theyve forgotten this now.  
As this was a policy they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs K couldve cancelled  it at any time 
without losing out financially if they didnt  any longer  want  to pay for it. 
Even if there  were  some failings in the way this policy  was sold,  I think Mr and Mrs K still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better  informed as it gave them  useful 
protection in their particular situation.  I dont  think having better information wouldve put 
them off buying  it.
 
This means  I dont  find that Mr and Mrs K have  lost out as a result of anything that 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt  need  to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN06624513my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0662451