K821x#15complaint
Miss P complained about how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited handled her car repairs  
when she claimed  under her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss Ps car was involved in an incident in early December and she reported it to Admiral.  
She said their approved  repairing  garage  (the garage) allowed her to drive her car when it 
wasnt roadworthy, took too long to estimate the repair  cost,  didnt give her a courtesy car for 
long enough, caused her problems around  returning  it and collecting her own car after the 
repairs, and generally  gave her poor service. 
Admiral agreed with some elements of her complaint, and offered her compensation of £80 
for her trouble and upset,  and £50 for the loss of use of her car.
Miss P didnt think this was enough. She wanted them  to compensate  her for loss of 
earnings when  she didnt have access to a courtesy  car, and to apologise for the stress  their 
garage caused her.
The investigator recommended  that aspects of her complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
think they had treated  her fairly as regards the courtesy car issues and the return  of her own 
car. He recommended  that they pay her a further  £120 in compensation for her trouble and 
upset, in addition  to the £80 they had already offered  her for that and the £50 theyd already 
offered her for loss of use. This would make their total compensation £250.
Miss P agreed but Admiral didnt,  and so her complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P reported the incident  to Admiral who said their garage  would  call her to arrange  a 
repair estimate. When she hadnt  heard from the garage a few days later,  she called them  
and they said they didnt  know  about  her car. She contacted  Admiral  and they reinstructed  
their garage. I can see that this would be frustrating,  but, as this was over a weekend, I dont 
think that Admiral delayed unreasonably there.  
When Miss P drove her car to the garage for the estimate, the garage  didnt think it was 
roadworthy. She said shed told them how the car was damaged beforehand and she felt 
theyd let her drive an unsafe  car. But as she had described it as driveable and the garage 
hadnt seen it, I dont think that it would be fair to blame Admiral for that.
She also felt that they delayed with the repair estimate, and shed had to take unnecessary  
unpaid leave  to deal with the matter. I can see that it  took  about  another  nine days  for the 
garage to finalise the estimate, but again that was over weekends  and I dont think that was 
an unreasonable delay, particularly at what is a busy time of year in the run up to the holiday  
period. Once the repairs were authorised on 19 December she felt she should  have  had a 
courtesy car right away, but the garage  said they couldnt give her one until 24 December. 
Ref: DRN00876722She said that after several calls with Admiral and with the garage Admiral  arranged a car for 
the evening of 21 December but by then shed had to take two days unpaid leave from her 
job because she had no transport. She said that she used her car for work and she was very 
inconvenienced by this. She felt the garage  made an already stressful situation  significantly 
worse. 
Ive looked at her policy and it says that the Approved Repairer will give you a courtesy car 
while your vehicle is being repaired in our body  shop. So I think this is clear that a courtesy 
car is provided only during the repairs, not any estimating period before that. And I think  that 
there will always be some inconvenience about  an insurance claim and having your car 
repaired. She has claimed loss of earnings at £120 a day; but she hasnt shown us evidence  
of that loss. We generally think that fair payment for loss of use of a car is £10 a day and so I 
think the £50 Admiral offered her is fair.
It seems  that because the garage  couldnt  provide  a courtesy car at the right time,  Admiral 
arranged for Miss P to have a hire car instead. But though this was an arrangement between 
Admiral and their garage, just until the garage had a courtesy car available, it seems  Admiral 
didnt tell Miss P about it. So she was surprised when the garage  asked her on Christmas  
Eve to return the hire car and swap it for the garages courtesy car. This was the holiday 
period and she was away,  so she had to make more  calls to Admiral who agreed to extend 
the hire car period  so she wouldnt  have  to give it up over the holiday period. I think that 
though Admiral did sort this matter out, it did cause Miss P more inconvenience over the 
holiday period  than it had to.
She also said as follows.  When her cars repair was complete, the garage  gave  her only 24 
hours notice to collect it. When she got there  her battery was flat, they wouldnt fix it and 
wouldnt let her keep  the courtesy car to get home in and she had to arrange a lift to get 
home. She also had to arrange to get a new battery, and get a mechanic to come with her 
the next day to collect the car, but it turned out that it did start after all and the new battery  
wasnt needed. Admiral  suggested that the garage did fix the battery themselves, but they 
havent been able to get any clear information  from the garage  to actually confirm this. But 
even if they did, theyd already put Miss P to inconvenience  by asking her to collect  a car 
with a flat battery  and not helping her with that or letting her keep the courtesy car to get 
home. I think  that caused her significant inconvenience. 
Miss P says she didnt  have to pay the mechanic she brought,  but its not clear if she 
managed to obtain a refund on the new battery. If she can provide Admiral  with the receipt 
for it I would  expect them to refund her for that.
In respect of these matters, I dont think that Admirals garage acted fairly and Admiral  are 
responsible for their actions. I think that the £50 loss of use is fair. But I think that Admiral 
should pay her more compensation than the £80 they have offered. I think  there will always  
be some  stress in dealing  with an insurance claim, but in this case I think  that their garage 
caused her more than was necessary.  
And so I think that Admiral should pay Miss P a further £120 for her trouble and upset. This 
is in addition to the £ 80 for trouble and upset and £50 for loss of use that they have already 
offered. If it transpires that she has not cashed  and accepted the £130 already; I expect 
Admiral to re issue and honour that payment,  so that the total compensation they pay her is 
£250. 
 
my final decision
Ref: DRN00876723For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  to do the following:
Pay Miss P compensation of £120 for her trouble and upset
Reimburse her for the cost of the new car battery she bought  if she can give Admiral 
the receipt for it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the consumer to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell them Miss P 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Admiral considers that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  
tax from that interest, they should tell Miss P how much they have taken off. They  should  
also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0087672