K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008. 
Mr S says Glasgow Credit Union Ltd mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  are in agreement that a phone call took place during this sales process.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Due to the time thats passed since the sale took place, Glasgow Credit Union Ltd 
cant provide a recording of the phone call. Theyve  shown us example system 
screen shots that they say would show that the adviser would have  been  required to 
presented PPI as optional  before  getting consent  to take it out. But as the dates on 
the screenshots are after the date when this PPI policy was taken out, Ive not relied 
on them  when coming to my decision.
What I have seen  and relied  on are copies of some  of the paperwork completed  at 
the time of sale. 
In particular, Ive seen a copy of a Demands and Needs Statement. This document 
outlines that Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd recommended  accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment insurance but Mr S chose not to accept the recommendation and 
instead chose  to take out accident  and sickness only PPI. 
Mr S has signed the form to indicate that hes declining the recommended  cover and 
instead going ahead with accident and sickness cover. 
Ive not seen evidence to support what Mr S has said about PPI being mandatory to 
get the loan he was applying for. 
On balance, I think Glasgow Credit Union Ltd made  it clear that Mr S didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
might not remember this now.
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,      
I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Glasgow Credit Union Ltd gave Mr S about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN08781062Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his sick pay entitlement. But after six months, Mr Ss sick pay entitlement would 
have decreased to half pay. This PPI policy could have potentially paid out for up to            
24 months per claim. So I think that Mr S had a need for the policy  as there  was a gap in his 
existing provision and these points dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr S paid on his policy   and whether Glasgow 
Credit Union Ltd treated him unfairly. 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has told us that the commission for Mr Ss policy was less than 
half of what he paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has 
been working this out and based on what weve seen it looks  like its right  Mr Ss 
commission was less than half the cost of the policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr S back 
any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0878106