K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) took over three 
months to apply a payment to her pension. She says it only applied the payment because  
she chased it.
background
On 17 September  2018, Mrs C arranged for a payment of nearly  £1,600 to be made from 
another business to her L&G pension plan. Her pension plan had previously been 
transferred to L&G as part of a bulk transfer.
When Mrs C received  her December statement from L&G,  the payment hadnt been credited 
to her pension.
Mrs C then contacted  L&G,  who located  the payment and credited it to her pension plan. It 
said it hadnt applied  the payment when it received it as no reference had been attached to 
the payment,  so it didnt know which customers pension plan it should be applied to. 
Mrs C queried  this with the business  that had made  the payment. It told Mrs C that it had put 
her national insurance number in the reference  field when it made  the payment, and 
provided Mrs C with evidence to show this was the case.
Mrs C complained to L&G. It didnt uphold her complaint. It said Mrs Cs national insurance  
number hadnt  shown on its payment received screen. And it said the business  should have 
added the plan number, national insurance  number, or Mrs Cs name and address in the free 
text box so that it could  allocate the payment.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with L&Gs response and referred her complaint to this service. She 
said she felt she should be compensated for the delay in the funds  being  applied to the 
pension plan.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that if 
Mrs C hadnt contacted L&G when she did it was likely that the payment would have 
remained uncredited.  
He noted that L&G said it didnt have  a process  in place  for its transfer  team to contact a 
sender if funds were  received into its account without a specific identifier attached. It also 
said that due to data protection regulation, it wasnt always  possible  to provide enough 
information to the sender in order to successfully pass verification and discuss payments.
Our investigator said that, regardless of this, he thought L&G should have taken steps to try 
to identify the pension plan the money  was intended for. He accepted that it may have been 
unable to identify  who the payment belonged to. But he noted L&G did have details of the 
sender, the time and date of the transfer,  and the amount transferred. He said he thought  
this would have  been sufficient information  to have written to the sender to request the 
information it needed to allow it to credit  the payment  to the correct pension plan. 
Ultimately he said he felt the onus was L&G to try to identify which customers pension  plan 
the payment was intended for as the funds had been credited to it.
Ref: DRN02289542In order to put matters  right he said L&G should  backdate Mrs Cs payment to the date it 
would have been applied to her pension plan had the payment been identified  when it was 
sent. He also said L&G should pay Mrs C £100  for the trouble and upset this matter  had 
caused her.
L&G did not accept  our investigators view. It said it felt the business making the transfer was 
responsible for the delay in allocating  the money  to Mrs Cs account as it hadnt  provided 
identifying information  with the transfer.  It also said the business  had not let in know that it 
was sending a further ad-hoc payment, or asked for permission to do so.
It said that ad-hoc  payments were  usually due to administration  errors from the ceding 
scheme and, as such it is their responsibility to confirm and agree that we will accept the 
payment due to this being outside of the original  project plan.
It also provided evidence  to show that it had been in contact with the business  in September  
2018 about ongoing issues with pension transfer  payments  that did not use L&Gs  reference  
number. It said this made it difficult for L&G to identify which  customers pension plan the 
payment should  be credited to. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think Mrs Cs complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I have very carefully considered all that L&G has said and in particular why it feels the 
business making the payment is at fault in this matter, not L&G.
It is not in dispute  that Mrs Cs national insurance  number was not displayed  on the payment 
received screen.  But it appears that the business  sending the payment  did include Mrs Cs 
national insurance  number, so it is not clear to me why this was missed off the information 
L&G received.
It is very unfortunate that L&G did not receive  the information it needed to allow it to promptly  
allocate the payment to Mrs Cs plan. But I must also take into account  that it appears  L&G 
didnt make any attempt  to contact the business for more information,  or notify it that it hadnt  
been able to allocate the money. As this is the case I dont think  it is reasonable for me to 
say that the business sending the money was responsible for the delay in it being allocated  
to Mrs Cs pension plan.
As our investigator noted, L&G could have contacted the business with the information it 
had; the amount and the time and date of the transfer. It could then have asked for more 
information to help it allocate the payment. Instead L&G simply left the money unallocated.
L&G says that at the time its policy was to return the money to source  if still unidentified 
and sitting in our bank account  for 6 months.  
I note that L&G has provided evidence to show that it contacted the business  in September  
2018 to raise a general concern about pension transfer payments that did not use L&Gs  
reference number.  It said this made it difficult for L&G to identify which customer account the 
payment should  be credited to. But it did not say that the business needed to notify it, or 
Ref: DRN02289543seek its permission before making ad-hoc  payments.  Nor did it provide a list of the payments 
it has received from the business that it had been  unable to allocate.
L&G is required to treat it customers fairly. In this case I dont think  it was fair for L&G to 
leave Mrs Cs money unallocated without making any attempt  to contact the business  that 
had sent the money to request more information to help identify the intended customer  
pension plan. 
Having carefully considered this matter, I think L&G should have done more  to try and 
identify which customer pension plan the payment was in respect of. As this is the case I 
think Mrs Cs complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve  this matter 
Legal & General Assurance Society  Limited should  backdate the payment, to the date it 
would have been applied to Mrs Cs pension plan had the payment been  identified when it 
was sent. 
This will put Mrs C back in the position she would have  been in had the delay not occurred.
L&G should  also pay Mrs C £100  for the trouble and upset this matter has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0228954