K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt make him aware  of a change to the terms of 
and conditions of his credit card account.
background
In February 2019,  Mr C noticed (from his statements) that his credit  card account had 
changed from operating with two card schemes to only one.  
Lloyds told Mr C it sent him a letter advising him of the change  in November 2018. It had 
also sent him a further confirmation letter and replacement card to his home  address  in 
January 2019.  Mr C said he hadnt  received the letters or the replacement card so Lloyds 
told him it would  cancel the card and send him another one. Lloyds said it didnt uphold       
Mr Cs complaint but could see hed received poor customer service. It arranged  for £50 to 
be paid into Mr Cs bank account  because of this.
Mr C was unhappy with Lloyds response, so he brought his complaint to us. He said he 
didnt receive the letters  Lloyds said it had sent him. He said the changes were detrimental  
to him and he believed Lloyds had breached  the accounts terms and conditions by not 
giving him notice of the change. He said Lloyds could have notified  him of the changes by 
other means  such as messages on his statements,  via its online banking system or email.  
Mr C said he thought  Lloyds should  reduce the balance on his credit card to zero and close  it 
down.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns, but didnt  think  his complaint  should  be upheld.  
She could  appreciate his frustration at not receiving the letters from Lloyds, but she was 
satisfied they were sent. She said it wasnt the role of the ombudsman service to require a 
bank to alter its procedures. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. He said Lloyds has notified him of other  
changes by means of messages on statements and this proves  that it does inform in this 
way, and not just by post. He was also concerned  about Lloyds  paying  £50 into his bank  
account without  his authority.
As Mr C didnt  agree, his complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Lloyds had a responsibility to treat Mr C fairly and to communicate  with him in a way which 
was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Lloyds  says it sent to Mr C advising him of the change  to his 
credit card type. And Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show  letters  were  sent to Mr C in 
November 2018.  Its also sent us a screenshot to show  it sent a further  letter in January 
2019 to confirm the account changes. Mr C says he didnt receive the letters.  But from what  
Ive seen, I think they were likely to have  been  sent. 
Ref: DRN04106732Mr C says Lloyds should have informed him of the changes  by another method  of 
communication. He says its told him about other  changes to his accounts terms and 
conditions on his credit  card statements. Lloyds has sent us a copy  of the terms and 
conditions relevant to Mr Cs account.  These  say it will give at least one months notice  of 
changes to the conditions, but it doesnt say how it will give notice. Its not the role of this 
service to tell Lloyds what method of communication it needs  to use. This is a commercial  
decision. So I dont  think Lloyds was required to advise Mr C of the changes by a different 
method.
Overall Im satisfied Lloyds is likely to have let Mr C know about the changes before they 
took place and its done so in line with its terms and conditions. So I dont think  Lloyds has 
done anything  wrong.
Finally, Mr C is unhappy that Lloyds put £50 into his bank account without his permission. I 
can understand why Mr C is concerned by this. But its not unusual  for banks to do this in an 
attempt to resolve a complaint. The payment didnt prevent Mr C from bringing his complaint 
to our service and I think the amount was reasonable.  So I wont ask Lloyds to do anything 
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0410673