K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that U K Insurance Limited  settled a third party motor insurance claim by 
accepting she was at fault and paying  for damage which  she says was not caused  by the 
accident she was involved in.
background
Mrs E had a car insurance policy with UKI. 
She was involved  in an incident  in January 2018. She admits her foot slipped off the brake 
which caused her car to collide with the car in front of her, which  was stationary at a red 
light.
Mrs E exchanged details  with the third party driver,  but says they both inspected his car and 
found very minimal damage. She describes this as a chip in the paintwork no more  than a 
millimetre wide.
Mrs E says that at the time the other driver  said he may not claim through  his insurance. 
However, UKI later received a claim for more  than £800 for repairs.
UKI accepted the fault was Mrs Es and paid the third party insurer.  As a result,  Mrs E has 
lost her no claims benefits and she says her insurance premiums have increased.
Mrs E complained to UKI and when  they didnt uphold her complaint, she brought it to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought UKI had done nothing wrong.
Mrs E disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Es policy has a general condition which says UKI are:
entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any 
claim (page 27)
This type of clause  is included in almost all car insurance policies. In the simplest terms, it 
means UKI will decide whether to accept that their policyholder was at fault in any accident  
and whether to pay out to a third party insurer.
In this case, UKI received  a letter from the third partys insurer saying  that Mrs E was at fault 
and asking UKI to pay them £800  for the repairs. 
UKI cant ignore  that letter, so they had to make  a decision whether to accept  fault or contest 
the claim.  Mrs E accepts that she was at fault,  so theres no dispute about that.
UKI then have to decide whether the costs associated with the claim are reasonable. I 
should point out that its not in UKIs  interest  to pay out on claims which  they think  are not 
Ref: DRN03979482their policyholders fault. Nor is it in their interest  to pay out excessive amounts for repairs  to 
damage not caused by the accident  in question. Theyre paying out the money.
In this case, UKI took into account the third party  drivers account of the accident.  They  also 
considered Mrs Es views.  
The third party car was inspected by two engineers   one appointed by the third partys 
insurer and one appointed by UKI. They agreed that the damage was consistent with the 
kind of accident  the third party and Mrs E described.
I have to ask whether  UKI have handled  the claim  fairly and reasonably. It seems to me they 
have, given the evidence theyve taken  in to account  before making  their decision. And, as I 
say, they are entitled under the terms of the policy to decide  whether to pay out or whether 
to contest the claim. 
Mrs E says very little damage was visible when she stopped with the other driver at the side 
of the road after their collision. It is perfectly  possible that the damage was hidden  from view 
under the bumper of the third party car. And both engineers  one of whom was appointed  
by UKI  agree that the damage  was consistent  with the collision, relatively minor though it 
may have  been.
Mrs E is concerned about the impact  on her future  premiums  for car insurance. As I 
understand it, insurers will take into account previous driving history when setting premiums.
But Mrs E isnt disputing  that she was at fault in this case. In her own words, her foot slipped 
off the brake and she crashed into the car in front of her in a queue at traffic lights.  Its not 
entirely surprising  that insurers might  see her as more of a risk in light of this accident.
In summary,  I cant see any reason to suggest UKI have acted unfairly  or unreasonably 
towards Mrs E in their handling of this third party claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0397948