K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that NewDay Limited  wont refund  to her the money  that she paid for an 
overseas package holiday. Her complaint is made  against NewDay under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
background
Miss R used her NewDay credit card in August 2016 to pay £1,398.81 towards the cost of an 
overseas package holiday for her and her family. The cost of the holiday  was £1,524.97 (and 
Miss R paid a total of £1,595.85 to the holiday company including insurance and other 
costs). The holiday was booked for October  2016.  Miss R said that there  were  many issues  
with the holiday   including no transfers being  included, much of the hotel and its facilities  
being closed,  the quality  of the accommodation,  meals and service that they received and 
food poisoning  from raw chicken.  The issues were  described in detail in a letter that Miss R 
wrote to the holiday company in October  2016. The holiday company  refunded  to Miss R the 
30 Euros that she spent  on a taxi for her journey to the airport  at the end of the holiday. 
There was then a delay before Miss R claimed  a refund of the money that shed paid for the 
holiday from NewDay under section 75. It sent her its final response letter in May 2018 which 
said that Miss R wasnt covered under  section 75 for this type of claim  and in June 2018  it 
said that Miss Rs complaint related to the standard of service provided  by the travel agent 
which isnt covered under section 75  so it referred her to ABTA. Miss R wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that there  
were issues  with the condition of the rooms, the transfers, the limited availability of some of 
the resources  that Miss R was meant  to receive  and the poor quality of the food she was 
served  which  NewDay  as the finance  provider needed to put right. But she said that the 
flights were fine and Miss R received accommodation for seven days  which  included access  
to a park (although  she accepted that some amenities werent available and parts of the park 
were closed). So she didnt think that it would be fair for Miss R to receive a full refund of the 
money that shed paid for the holiday.  And she recommended that a 50% refund (£762.50)  
from NewDay was reasonable in the circumstances. She also thought that Miss R should  be 
compensated for the distress  and inconvenience  that shed been caused   and she thought 
that £200 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss R has accepted the investigators recommendation. But NewDay  said that its section 
75 team  was reviewing  those recommendations - and then, in December 2018, that it was 
being reviewed  by its legal team. And it said that it would let the investigator know when 
there was an update   but no further  response to the investigators recommendation has 
been received  from NewDay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Miss Rs complaint about  NewDay, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday 
Ref: DRN02121002company and that NewDay's response  to her claim under  section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Miss Rs claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
Miss R has described in detail her issues with the holiday and shes provided photos  to 
support what she says about  some of those issues. The hotel was a 4 star hotel  and Im 
persuaded that its more likely than not that some of the amenities and services that she 
received fell significantly below the standard that would be expected  from a 4 star hotel. In 
particular there were issues with the condition of the rooms, the transfers, the limited 
availability of some of the facilities  and the poor quality  of the food.
But the flights and accommodation (including  some of the facilities in the park) were  
provided to Miss R and her family  and they will have benefitted from them   even if they 
didnt enjoy them as much as they expected  to.
Miss R has accepted the investigators recommendation that she should receive a refund of 
50% of the money that she paid for the holiday. Miss R paid £1,524.97 for the holiday and 
50% of that is £762.50. I consider that the issues with the holiday are breaches by the 
holiday company  of its contract with Miss R  and NewDay is jointly liable for those breaches 
under section 75. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for 
NewDay to refund £762.50 to Miss R.
Miss R has been caused distress and inconvenience by these events  including  NewDays 
failure to properly deal with her complaint. It said that her complaint wasnt covered by 
section 75 which will have caused her further distress and inconvenience. And I find that it 
would also be fair and reasonable for NewDay to pay £200 to Miss R to compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience  that shes been caused.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint. And I order  NewDay  
Limited to:
1.Pay £762.50 to Miss R to refund her for 50% of the amount that she paid for the 
holiday.
2.Pay £200 to Miss R to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0212100