K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint arises  from a claim he made  under his Tech  Pack gadget insurance 
policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited.
Assurant uses agents to handle claims on its behalf. Any reference to Assurant in this 
decision should be read as including anything said or done  by those agents on its behalf.
background
On 8 October 2018, Mr P made a claim under the policy for the theft of a digital camera 
worth just under £1,500 from his bag, while he was travelling by train.
Assurant asked Mr P to provide a receipt or other proof of purchase for the camera. Mr P 
provided an invoice  dated 22 February 2018.  Assurant said the invoice  was from an 
unregistered company and was associated with Mr P. 
Assurant said that it could not validate the claim  based on the documentation  provided and it  
declined the claim  on 22 October 2018. Mr P contacted Assurant  and Mr P then apparently 
told Assurant the had obtained the camera from a classified advertisement  site. He later also 
said he would get his girlfriend to provide proof of purchase from her business. Mr P  
provided another invoice dated 22 February 2018,  from a company shown as having the 
same address as Mr P. Assurant also said the invoice showed that the camera  had not yet 
been paid for; that he was listed as a shareholder of the company; and the company was 
listed as being  dormant. Assurant maintained its refusal to meet  the claim. 
Mr P is unhappy with this. He says he was told the claim would be assessed within  one 
working day, and there were unnecessary delays by Assurant.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  that the complaint 
be upheld. She thought  that Assurant had not acted unreasonably  in declining  the claim, 
given that Mr P had not bene  able to provide verifiable  proof  of purchase for the camera;  and 
that it had dealt with the matter within a reasonable time. 
Mr P does not accept  the investigators  assessment and so the matter  has been referred to 
me. He also asked for the premiums  he has paid to be refunded. After the investigator 
issued her assessment  Mr P also provide the name of someone he says he bought the 
camera from in response  to a classified advertisement. Mr P said he had done everything  
that his policy terms and conditions say he needs to and he only sent the second invoice 
because Assurant told him the invoice needed  to be from a VAT registered business. 
Mr P has also made another claim under the same  policy for the loss of another camera. I 
will address  his complaint  about the handling and result of that claim in a separate decision. 
This decision is only about the theft claim from October 2018. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy  provides, among other things, cover for the theft of his camera. In order  to 
make a successful insurance claim, it is for a policyholder to prove  their claim. That means 
Ref: DRN08568442that they have  to prove they owned  the items  claimed for and that an insured event 
occurred. In this case  therefore it means that not only would Assurant have to be satisfied 
that Mr Ps camera was stolen but also that the make and model of camera he said were 
stolen was owned by him. 
This is reflected in the policy terms set out below: 
 Proof of ownership  
We need to know  that the device, SIM card and accessories you are claiming  for are yours.
Therefore you may need to provide some form of proof of ownership. You may need  to be 
able to tell us the make and model  of your device.  We may ask to see something that tells us 
that the items you are claiming for belong to you.
Proof of ownership  could  include  a till receipt  or documentation from your airtime provider. If 
you dont have any proof of ownership we may decline your claim.
I do not therefore consider it unreasonable for Assurant to ask Mr P to provide proof of 
purchase, or some other proof that he owned the camera claimed for. 
Mr P provided an invoice from a business which is not registered  and from an address next 
door to Mr P. Apart from the name of the business  and the address, theres no other name 
and no telephone number or email address. Assurant said it was therefore unable  to verify 
that the receipt is genuine proof of purchase. I dont consider  this is unreasonable given the 
issues raised. 
In response to this, Mr P then provided a second invoice with the same date from a dormant 
company in which he was a shareholder. He also later said he had in fact bought the camera  
from an individual in answer to an advertisement.  Mr P provided  details  of a possible third 
source of the camera. Assurant has not investigated this any further and says it does not 
intend to do so, given this is the third account of where he purchased  the camera  from. I do 
not think this is unreasonable.
Having taken all this into account, I am not persuaded that Mr P has provided sufficient 
evidence that he owned the camera and so I am not satisfied that I can require Assurant to 
meet the claim. I consider it has acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms in 
declining the claim.  
I also do not consider  that Assurant has acted unreasonably in the way it has handled the 
claim. Assurant did tell Mr P that the claim would be assessed on 12 October 2018 and it 
failed to tell him that it was referring  his claim for more  investigation.  However, its queries 
with regard to the proof of purchase  of the camera  were reasonable enquiries to make  and it 
informed Mr P of the outcome of the claim within a reasonable period. I do not consider that 
Assurant caused  any avoidable or unnecessary delays. 
Ref: DRN08568443my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0856844