K820x#14complaint
Mrs J on behalf of the estate of Mrs H make  a number of complaints about  Bank  of Scotland  
plc trading as Halifax following Mrs Hs passing  away. 
background
Mrs J as executor of Mrs Hs estate says Halifax didnt deal appropriately  with Mrs Hs 
accounts after her passing away. She says that a joint account Mrs H held with her husband 
was transferred into his sole name despite Mrs H holding a Power  of Attorney (POA) for him. 
Mrs J says that resulted  in the now sole account becoming overdrawn and that there were 
missed direct debits. Mrs J also makes a number of other complaints about  an address 
being amended and a lack of information recorded  about Mrs Hs husbands vulnerabilities.
Halifax says it followed its correct process by changing a joint account to a sole account on 
the passing away of one of the account holders. It says it could  not freeze a sole account in 
someone elses name but did freeze  Mrs Hs sole accounts. Halifax  accepts making a 
mistake about the address and has paid £100 compensation.
Mrs J brought the complaint to us and our investigator explained what  areas of the complaint 
we could look at. In summary  the investigator  explained we could only look at the estates 
complaint and that Mrs Hs husband would need  to make his own complaints about those 
matters that affected  him. The investigator  also explained that we couldnt consider 
compensation for distress to those  whom administered an estate but could only consider the 
affect of any mistake on the estate itself.
The investigator thought Halifax had dealt  fairly  with this complaint and had correctly 
explained that a joint account  becomes  a sole account in these circumstances. The 
investigator accepted  that Halifax had given incorrect  information  about the address but had 
apologised for that and paid an appropriate amount of compensation.
Mrs J doesnt accept  that view and says shes had to deal with Halifaxs mistakes  and its not 
fair that it can get away with mistreating her in this way. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs J will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about whats happened and that this must be an extremely  
difficult time for her and her family.
I can see that the investigator  has explained which arears of this complaint we can and cant  
look at. I make clear that I agree  with what the investigator says about that and that I cant 
look at any areas of complaint that Mrs Hs husband  wishes to make.  Im satisfied that the 
investigator has fairly set out our approach in dealing with what we can consider about 
compensation when dealing  with an estate.
Im satisfied that Halifax didnt make  a mistake by changing Mrs Hs joint account into a sole 
account following  her passing away. And in those circumstances  I dont think it was able to 
freeze that account  as at that stage the account was not part of the estate. I appreciate  that 
is not what Mrs J was expecting and I appreciate that Mrs H held a POA for her husband.  
Ref: DRN08527302But Im satisfied that POA  ended  when Mrs H passed  away  and so for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think Halifax  made  a mistake  or acted unfairly.
I accept that Halifax  made a mistake about the address issue. I appreciate that is not the 
main part of Mrs Js complaint. But I think Halifax has dealt fairly with that part of the 
complaint by apologising and paying  a fair and reasonable level of compensation to the 
estate which  I have  no doubt spent time in sorting that matter out.
Overall Im satisfied that Halifax  has dealt  fairly  with this complaint. I appreciate  that Mrs J is 
unlikely to accept  my decision. But I think the main part of her complaint concerns how she 
has felt as a result of whats taken  place and for the reasons  I have explained I can only 
consider the impact on the estate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J on behalf  of 
the estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0852730