K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc reported  information about him to a fraud prevention  
agency in connection with a mortgage  application. He also complains that it didnt tell him 
about this when he asked it later to send him all the information it held about him.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint by way of a provisional decision  a copy of which 
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why, while I didnt propose 
to require TSB to remove the entry it had made with the fraud prevention agency, I thought  it 
should pay Mr D some compensation.
I invited Mr D and TSB to let me have any more comments  or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.  Mr D said he accepts my provisional decision. 
Despite reminders, TSB didnt reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has disagreed with my provisional conclusions or asked me to take anything 
else into consideration. So I confirm my provisional decision.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that TSB Bank plc should pay Mr D £200 in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN03070272copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc reported information about him to a fraud prevention agency in 
connection with a mortgage  application. He also complains that it didnt tell him about this when  he 
asked it later to send  him all the information  it held about him.
background
In late 2014, Mr D applied for a mortgage with TSB. TSB declined his application and recorded an 
entry for application fraud with CIFAS, a fraud prevention agency.
Since then,  Mr D says applications he has made for financial  products have been turned down. In 
2016, he made a subject  access request to TSB. He asked  for all the information TSB held about him. 
TSB said it held no information about him or his mortgage application.
In 2018, after another loan application was rejected, Mr D contacted  CIFAS. It told him about  the entry 
and gave him a copy of it. Mr D thought the entry was a mistake, so he complained to TSB and then 
to us.
TSB said it would review the entry if Mr D could provide a letter or other evidence from Her Majestys 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC)  confirming his income  from the time of the mortgage application. He did 
so, but TSB said the information was significantly different from that on his payslips  so it wouldnt 
remove the entry.
Our investigator concluded that TSB hadnt  done anything wrong,  and it had been fair in making the 
entry it had with CIFAS.
Mr D didnt accept that conclusion  and asked for it to be reviewed. He said,  in summary, that TSB had 
told him in 2016 it couldnt find any information about his mortgage  application, so it was unclear how 
it had now managed to produce some of it and this was an infringement of his rights.  He also said he 
had been both self-employed and in full-time  employment in 2014, so all his earnings werent  
reflected on payslips.  He thought TSB hadnt justified  making the entry, so it should be removed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Lenders should only record  this type of entry with CIFAS and other similar organisations where  they 
have very good grounds to do so. TSB recorded the entry in question here for application fraud. The 
entry says it was made because false documentation (a wage slip) was provided, and sets out the 
checks TSB did. Mr D says his employer had made  a mistake with one of his payslips, but he 
provided TSB with a corrected version. 
TSB told us it would review the entry if Mr D could  provide satisfactory evidence of his income from 
around the time of the application. I think that was a reasonable step for it to have taken, although  I 
would expect it to make these sorts of enquiries  before making a fraud entry,  rather than after.
Nevertheless, Im satisfied that TSB has since considered  the additional evidence Mr D has provided. 
That evidence included documents  from HMRC,  payslips and bank statements. TSB concluded that 
the payslips didnt match the tax calculations  (SA302s) from HMRC. There  were significant 
differences. I dont think that what  Mr D has said about his employment  status  explains this.
In all the circumstances, I think TSBs decision not to remove the entry was reasonable.  However,  I 
think it should  have told Mr D about the entry sooner. 
Ref: DRN03070273Mr D asked TSB for the information it held about  him in 2016. He was entitled  to that information, and 
I see no real reason why TSB didnt give him what it had. Instead, it told him it couldnt find anything 
at all. It has told us it did that because the entry relates to fraud.
Businesses can sometimes withhold certain information  for example, if it is about the prevention, 
detection or investigation of a crime. But this sort of information  should  only be withheld to the extent 
that disclosing it would be likely to prejudice any investigation. It is difficult  to see how giving Mr D this 
information could have prejudiced anything. There was no ongoing investigation. And he could find 
out about  the CIFAS entry  TSB had made by contacting CIFAS itself  as he ultimately did.
I dont consider that TSBs mistake means I can fairly require it to remove the fraud entry. But I think  
its failure to provide Mr D with the information hed asked  for, and to which  he was entitled, caused 
him unnecessary  inconvenience and upset for a number  of months when he couldnt understand  why 
his applications for credit werent  going as smoothly  as he might have expected.  I think  Mr D should 
fairly receive some compensation in recognition of that. I assess a fair award at £200.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any more evidence or arguments I receive from Mr D or TSB by 
19 December 2019  is that TSB Bank plc should pay Mr D £200 in settlement of this complaint. I 
dont propose  to make any other order or award.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0307027