K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS)  is of unsatisfactory quality  and unfit for purpose. 
background
Mr W acquired this car in September 2016. In March 2018 an engine warning light 
illuminated and the following day there was a loss of power.  Mr W reported the issue  to his 
local dealer. The dealer  investigated and told Mr W the engine  needed to be replaced  due to 
piston failure and repairs would cost about  £7,500. Mr W says he had only driven  the car 
about 5,000 miles at this stage. He considers the engine has failed prematurely and the car 
must have  been  faulty when it was provided.  He wants to reject the car and have his deposit, 
monthly payments  and the cost of repairs refunded. 
VFS says its unlikely this issue  was present  at the point of supply - given the time that 
passed and distance Mr W was able to drive  the car after he got it. It considers an inherent 
defect would have  appeared  sooner.   
Our investigator doesnt think theres enough  evidence to fairly  conclude that this issue  was 
inherent or developing  at the point of supply. On balance, he considers its likely the fault 
would have appeared much earlier if that were  the case. He has sympathy for the situation 
Mr W finds himself in. But hes unable to hold VFS responsible for the repairs  in these 
circumstances and doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W doesnt think thats fair. He bought the car because it was used approved  and had a 
low mileage. Hes had it serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations and 
doesnt think an engine  should fail at such a low mileage. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances. 
VFS supplied this car under  a finance agreement so VFS was required to ensure that it was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  The level of quality thats  considered satisfactory 
in this situation will vary. But, its generally considered  reasonable to take the cost,  age and 
mileage of a car into account. 
This car was around 5 years old, cost £9,500 and had about 30,000 miles on the clock when 
Mr W got it. As such, I dont  think  he could  reasonably expect the car to meet the same 
standards as a brand new vehicle  - as its reasonable to assume that some parts are likely to 
be worn and will need to be repaired or replaced over time.   
Ref: DRN02497742There seems  to be no dispute that the problem here arose  because  of piston failure. Mr W 
thinks this must have been due to a fault that was present or developing when the car was 
supplied - in light of the mileage and age of the vehicle. But, VFS says the problem would  
have appeared  much  sooner if the issue was inherent. 
Mr W mentioned  he might  like to obtain  an independent experts  view in his correspondence  
with our investigator. So I asked Mr W if he needed some more  time to do that. But I 
understand hes spoken to someone  suitably  qualified  and concluded  its probably  not worth  
getting a report.  
Im not a mechanic. I cant diagnose  the underlying cause  of this issue.  My role here is to 
look at all of the information and evidence  and decide what is most  likely in all of the 
circumstances. Taking  the age and mileage of the car when it was supplied - as well as the 
length of time Mr W had the car and the mileage covered  before  the problem occurred - into 
account, I cant safely find that its more likely than not this fault was present when the car 
was supplied. On balance, I think Mr W probably  would have had engine  trouble much 
sooner if that were  the case. 
I have sympathy for the situation Mr W finds himself in and I appreciate hell probably feel 
led down by this decision. But, for the reasons Ive set out above,  I am not persuaded theres  
enough evidence  to fairly find this car was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr W got it. That 
means I cant reasonably  require VFS to take the car back or reimburse  Mr W for the cost of 
repairs or do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0249774