K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that BISL Limited  T/A Dial Direct  renewed her home insurance policy 
without her permission  and then pursued her for payment.
background
In early 2017 Mrs F took out home insurance with BISL. The policy documents  explained 
that it would  automatically  renew  each year unless  Mrs F telephoned BISL to say she didnt 
want this to happen. The policy automatically  renewed in early 2018.
In late 2018 BISL  contacted Mrs F saying the policy was due to renew  in early 2019. BISL 
sent two emails and a letter saying  what would happen. Mrs F replied to the emails saying 
she didnt want to renew the policy.  In early 2019 the policy  renewed  and BISL  requested 
payment from the card Mrs F had used when  first taking out the policy.
When Mrs F saw that BISL were  asking for payment  she telephoned them. Mrs F said that 
she had emailed them to say she didnt want to renew the policy.  BISL agreed to cancel the 
policy and issue a refund.
Mrs F also contacted her bank and asked for a chargeback on the amount debited from her 
account. This was agreed and Mrs Fs bank  credited  her account with the amount.
Later in January Mrs F was contacted by an agent  of BISL asking for payment of the policy 
premium as she had been  refunded twice. Mrs F disagreed  with this saying she hadnt 
wanted the policy to renew,  and that there  was no amount outstanding. BISL said the policy 
renewed correctly as Mrs F hadnt  contacted  them, and that the premium  was outstanding as 
she had been  refunded  twice. 
Mrs F came to our service  where  one of our investigators looked  into what  happened.  He 
thought the policy renewed correctly as Mrs F had emailed BISL and hadnt contacted them  
by telephone as the policy information  says she should. He also thought it wasnt unfair  of 
BISL to chase for payment  because at that time Mrs F had been refunded twice. BISL had 
now put Mrs F back in the position  she would be in if this hadnt  happened,  which he thought 
was fair. Mrs F remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  opinion as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
There are two issues to consider here:
-how the policy was renewed in early  2019
-the circumstances around how and why Mrs F was pursued  for payment
When thinking about what happened when the policy renewed Ive looked at what  BISL  said 
would happen,  and then what actually happened. 
The policy was first taken  out in 2017.  BISL provided policy documents which say the policy 
will automatically renew each year. If the policy holder doesnt want an automatic renewal it 
Ref: DRN00725962says they should contact  the BISL  customer services  team  on the telephone  number  
provided.
In late 2018 BISL  sent Mrs F renewal invitation information about  the policy. On page  three  
under the heading What you need to do it says if the policyholder  doesnt  want to renew 
they need to call BISL on the telephone number provided. 
Having looked  at these documents Im satisfied that BISL made it clear what needed  to 
happen if a policy holder  didnt want to renew. BISL wasnt  contacted in the way they needed 
to be in order to stop the renewal. Because of this I think the policy renewed correctly. Mrs F 
replied to the emails,  this isnt in doubt,  but BISL made it clear that to stop a renewal the 
policy holder needed  to contact them by telephone. This didnt happen.
When thinking about what happened when Mrs F was pursued for payment Ive looked  
closely at the timeline of events. 
When Mrs F saw that a payment was due to come out of her account she contacted  BISL 
who agreed a refund.  This would take a few days  as the payment itself was still processing.
On the same  day Mrs F contacted her bank  asking a chargeback on the amount. Mrs Fs 
bank agreed to investigate the payment. As part of their process they agreed to refund the 
amount to her account straight  away.
The duplication of requesting a refund  from both BISL and the bank has caused  some 
confusion here.
The timeline of transactions was:
3 January  payment was debited  by BISL
4 January  account credited due to chargeback from bank
10 January  account credited with the refund from BISL
At this time Mrs F had been  given  two refunds of the policy  amount. 
In the background Mrs Fs bank contacted BISL as part of the chargeback  process and 
requested a refund to match the one in her account.  BISL was bound to agree this as part of 
the chargeback  process.
This meant that BISL had now paid two refunds to Mrs F; one directly, and the other  through  
her bank as part of the chargeback process.  To recover this BISL  used an agent to contact 
her for repayment in late January.  Mrs F was unhappy with this so complained to BISL who 
investigated. BISL said the payment was still due as they had issued two refunds; one direct  
to Mrs F and the other  through her bank. However  BISL put any collection  on hold so that 
Mrs F was not pursued for repayment. 
On 20 February Mrs Fs bank account was debited by her bank for the chargeback refund as 
it was unsuccessful. This meant that now Mrs F was even, and as far as she could see the 
matter was closed.  
Even though  she wasnt being pursued for the outstanding amount Mrs F remained unhappy 
with the letter saying money  was owed so came  to our service. 
Ref: DRN00725963As part of our investigations BISL said they found  the payment that had been returned from 
Mrs Fs bank  so the matter was closed. It took BISL  a long time to match up the payment 
due to the lack of information they were supplied with when the money was sent back. Im 
glad to see that during this time any collection activity was on hold so Mrs F wasnt  
contacted. 
Having reviewed the timeline of events its clear Mrs F was only contacted for payment in 
late January. This was after Mrs F had been  issued  with two refunds, but before BISL had 
received payment from Mrs Fs bank. This means  that BISL was due payment from her at 
that time.  Whilst contact  from the agent was upsetting for Mrs F Im satisfied it was a 
reasonable action at the time. Im also happy  to see that BISL put any recovery action on 
hold and Mrs F was not contacted again for payment.  
From the set of circumstances above  Im satisfied the policy  was renewed correctly by BISL  
and that payment was pursued  in a reasonable way when it outstanding.
When bringing her complaint to this Service Mrs F said she wanted to be compensated for 
the stress  of what happened.  In order to consider a payment of this kind I would need to be 
persuaded that BISL had made errors, or that Mrs F was treated unfairly. As Ive explained 
above, Im satisfied BISL didnt make any errors. Ive also considered the way in which  the 
complaint was handled. Whilst  what  happened was stressful for Mrs F, I think  BISL acted in 
a fair and reasonable way so wont be asking them to do anything further.
Having looked  at everything Im satisfied BISL correctly  renewed the policy  and that 
repayment was pursued  in a reasonable way. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0072596