K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer  
Credit Act 1974 in respect  of partially unsuccessful legal case.
Background
Mr S and his late wife owned a timeshare which they wished to relinquish. They were 
contacted by a company I will call C which offered to help them do so and recover the 
money he had paid to the timeshare company. Mr S paid C £9,295.02 in three instalments 
using his credit card.
A representative of C visited them in March  2016  and Mr S says he was advised  that their 
claim was strong, could be worth a significant  sum and that it would take some two years for 
legal action. He also says that he was advised that he should expect to have his legal costs 
reimbursed.
The case  was heard in a European court in November 2017 and judgement was issued in 
March 2018, but Mr S wasnt  informed until May.  The court  upheld  the claim and awarded  
10,500 with no costs. After taking into account his expenses Mr S says he was left 3,725 out 
of pocket.
Mr S has explained that he had two contracts  and the judge had based the award solely  on 
one. He believed  the lawyer hadnt stressed  the link between the two contracts, one had 
been signed in 2001 and had in effect been  rolled over in 2011. Mr S says after the 
judgement he found  C very unhelpful  and he did not receive any payment. He believed that 
C had misrepresented their services  and had not pursued the claim with due diligence. He 
thought they had made excessive charges and had not asked for reimbursement of costs.
Mr C made  a claim under Section 75 to AIB, but this was rejected. There  were some  delays 
in responding  to Mr S. It noted that the contract with C stated: as in every legal dispute and 
according to the vocational  and professional law, we need to inform you that no guarantee 
can be given as to the outcome of a legal action. 
It didnt think the outcome  could be guaranteed and there was no evidence  to show  
misrepresentation. It added that it couldnt  say that Mr S hadnt  been reimbursed for his 
costs. Mr S brought his complaint to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld.
He considered the contract signed  by Mr S and the work done by C and concluded there had 
been no breach  nor misrepresentation. The contract  agrees that C will manage all the 
necessary steps to be able to to declare the contract  mentioned above cancelled  or 
invalid. C had appointed  a lawyer who had taken the claim  to court  and had won, albeit it 
was only a partial victory.  
Our investigator had read the judgement  which referred to costs and had concluded that 
each party should be liable for their own. He couldnt see how C could have been able to 
anticipate the outcome  of the case and it had delivered within  the terms of the contract.
He also considered what may have been  said to Mr S about the case  before he signed the 
contract.  He could  not say what had been discussed, but he noted  Mr S was keen to get out 
of the contract. Mr S had stated to AIB based  on the advice given, and our desperate  need  
Ref: DRN09481812to rid ourselves of the timeshare ownership with [R], we instructed [C] to pursue the claim 
and paid the €10,600 fee in three instalments.
While the representative  of C may well have given  a positive  gloss on the chances of 
success, our investigator had not seen any evidence  of a guarantee being  given. The case  
had been successful, but as that was only partial,  costs werent awarded. He didnt think Mr 
S would have been swayed specifically by the reimbursement of expenses.
He addressed Mr Ss concerns about the behaviour of the lawyer at the trial and explained 
that was not a matter which fell within our remit. Nor did the issue  of non-payment  by the 
timeshare company. That would be a matter  for the courts.
He said that AIB had been slow in dealing with Mr Ss claim and he thought  is should  
compensate him with a payment of £150.
Mr S didnt agree and provided detail of the link between the two contracts  explaining why he 
believed the lawyer had not prosecuted the claim properly. He said the lawyer had not 
stressed the connection  between the two contracts. He said that there was no mention of the 
possibility that no money  being paid by the defendant regardless of the judgement. He also 
felt C had not been as supportive as it should  after the trial and he had to chase  for 
information which often  wasnt forthcoming.  He believed C was fraudulent, negligent, sloppy 
and unhelpful  in the course of performing their duties and as such have breached  their Duty 
of Care to us and, by implication their Contract  with us.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr C, but I do not consider I can uphold  his complaint. I will 
explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
There is no suggestion that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain has been broken so I must 
consider if there has been either  a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Mr S wished to take terminate his timeshare arrangement and claim back the money  he had 
paid.  He met with a representative from C with a view to achieving  this goal. Mr S says he 
was advised that the conservative  value  of the claim was €18,700  and he had a strong case. 
He was also told to expect the upfront fees to be reimbursed if he was successful. While the 
Ref: DRN09481813representative may have  put an optimistic gloss on matters, I cannot see that any of the 
statements can be taken to be misrepresentation.
There is no suggestion that he was told he would win the case. Even apparently  strong 
cases can fall apart  in court. Nor was he guaranteed any minimum sum. As I understand it if 
the case had been wholly successful there was reason to believe that his fees would have 
been reimbursed.  However, it wasnt wholly successful. It may be that Mr Ss desire to rid 
himself of the timeshare  may have led him to take a more positive view of potential  success
As for the contract  signed by Mr S I have not seen  anything in that which gives  support to his 
claim that it was either breached or misrepresented. Unsurprisingly it stated that there was 
no guarantee of success. Although his case may have been strong there can be any number 
of reasons why it might  have failed. Taking  a claim to court involves risk and I suspect that 
risk is increased when one does  so in an unfamiliar court  with the hearings conducted in a 
foreign language.
As for the conduct  of the trial and the performance  of the lawyer it is difficult for me to say 
that this was the cause of partial success. I have read the judgement and I can see that the 
judge refers to seven contracts.  She notes the claim covers all the contracts, even those 
which have already ceased and that the respondent has rebutted the suggestion that there 
was a transfer of rights  to the 2011  contract. To make a link between  contract it would  be 
usual to establish some transfer of rights, but this was not accepted  in court.  That would 
suggest that Mr Ss lawyer did argue that there was a connection between the contracts, but 
this was not successful.  
I appreciate Mr S says that he challenged the lawyers who said that the failure  to link the two 
contracts by the judge could be grounds  for appeal. That does not confirm  the lawyer hadnt 
argued for the link, but rather that had not been  the conclusion  of the judge.
I cannot say how well the lawyer argued  the case. I appreciate Mr S concludes  that as the 
outcome wasnt fully successful then that lack of success  must be down to the incompetence 
of the lawyer. While  that is possible,  I cannot say with any degree of certainty  that this is a 
fair or reasonable  conclusion.  
I have also noted  that Mr S says the lawyer  told him to lie in court in regard to the contracts, 
but he refused  to do so. It is difficult for me to say without supporting evidence that this is 
what occurred. While  I have no reason to doubt  Mr Ss recollection  of events it may well be 
there is an alternative conclusion to the one he has reached. It may be that there  was some 
misunderstanding or possibly some  language  issues.  
As for the failure  of the timeshare company to pay up I cannot  hold C responsible for that. I 
believe it has gone into liquidation and that could  not necessarily have been foreseen by C.
Mr S has sought to claim a significant  sum from AIB and I appreciate the strength of his 
feelings on the matter, but I cannot safely conclude that his claim should succeed. I 
appreciate he will be disappointed  with my decision, but I cannot uphold  his complaint save  
for the award  of £150 for the poor service  provided  by AIB
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in the sense that I direct AIB Group (UK) Plc 
to pay Mr S £150 compensation for the poor levels of service  and the distress  this caused. 
Ref: DRN09481814Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0948181