K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Chartwell Financial Services Ltd (Chartwell) mis-sold him an income 
protection policy. 
My references to Mr A will include his representative and my references to Chartwell  will 
include its representative.  
background
In 2012 Mr A met with a representative of Chartwell and took out an income protection policy 
on an advised basis. 
If Mr A had become too ill to work, the policy would  have paid him a benefit of £4,000 per 
month, starting after a waiting period  of 26 weeks. It wouldve paid out for a successful claim 
until Mr A either returned to work,  or reached age 60. 
Mr A didnt make any claims against the policy, and in early  2018 he cancelled  it. 
Mr A complained to Chartwell in 2018. He said another  financial  adviser  had reviewed his 
finances and questioned  the suitability of the policy. Mr A said the policy  provided too much 
cover. And he said he thought that the insurer may not have paid a claim,  as his salary  was 
lower than the earnings amount stated  on the application. Mr A also said that the 26 week 
deferral period on the policy was too long, as this would have left him without income  for six 
months. 
Mr A has a large shareholding in the company he works for. And said he didnt need income 
protection cover for his basic salary,  as his dividend payments  would have continued if hed 
become incapacitated.  And he said the dividends were the main  source  of his income. 
Chartwell turned down  Mr As complaint and said it thought its policy  recommendation had 
been appropriate based on Mr As demands and needs at the time. It said it had provided 
Mr A with the costs  of different  deferral periods and had reviewed the savings Mr A had 
which could have been used during that period. It also said it originally suggested a policy 
with a lower monthly  benefit, but Mr A had said it wasnt enough.
Chartwell said Mr A said his dividends were  variable and not guaranteed.  And that he was 
uncertain as to whether he would continue to receive dividend payments if he became 
incapacitated. Chartwell also said Mr A would have been eligible to make  a claim against the 
policy. 
Unhappy with Chartwells response, Mr A brought  his complaint to us. An investigator here 
looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Chartwell had done  anything 
wrong. 
Mr A disagreed. He said the investigator  hadnt  considered that he didnt need  the level of 
cover the policy  provided, and that he only wanted  cover for his basic  salary. 
The case  has now been passed to me to make a decision.  
Ref: DRN03626202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators view, and for mostly  the same reasons. Ill explain why.
the deferred period
Mr As policy  had a 26 week deferred period. This means that in the event of him becoming 
incapacitated, he wouldnt receive  any payments from the policy  for the first 26 weeks.  Mr A 
has said that he thinks 26 weeks was too long.
Chartwell has provided copies of letters  it sent to Mr A, providing a report of its advice after 
meeting with him on two occasions in 2012.  
In the first letter sent in June 2012,  Chartwell  listed the different costs of an income 
protection policy with a 13, 26 or 52 week deferred  period. In the second letter,  sent in July 
2012, Chartwell stated  that a 26 week deferred  period had been agreed  at a meeting  with 
Mr A. This letter also set out the amounts Mr A had in savings.
Chartwell said when  it met with Mr A, he said he would receive 12 weeks  income  from his 
employer if he was incapacitated. And would be able to cover  his costs for the remainder of 
the deferred period with his savings.  
Based on the letters  Ive seen which Chartwell  sent to Mr A following its meetings with him, 
Im satisfied that Mr A was provided with details of the costs  of different periods of deferral. 
And that he had enough in savings to cover the period  between  his employer no longer 
paying him and the policy benefit starting.  So, I think Mr A made a cost-based  decision on 
the deferred period. And I dont think the 26 week period was unsuitable in Mr As 
circumstances.  
cover for Mr As salary  
Mr A said he thought the policy  provided too much cover. He said his dividend income would 
have continued  if hed become incapacitated. And he said he only needed  cover  for his 
salary payments. 
At the time of taking  the policy, Mr As dividend payments were substantial  and made  up 
a much greater proportion of his income  than his salary. As a shareholder  in the company  he 
worked for, Mr As dividend payments would have continued if hed become incapacitated. 
However, this income was uncertain  as dividends  are reliant  on a companys profit. The 
amounts paid can go up or down, or a dividend may not be paid at all. Chartwell  referenced  
this in the letter it sent to Mr A in June  2012.  It said the dividends were variable and not 
guaranteed.  
Cover for Mr As salary  payments  only would have equated to a maximum benefit of £3,020 
per month. Chartwell said it suggested a benefit  of £3,000 per month after it first met with 
Mr A. It said that after meeting with Mr A a second  time, he said that £3,000 wasnt  enough  
due to his mortgage payments and the needs of his young family. 
Ref: DRN03626203Chartwell said a benefit  of £4,000  per month  was agreed  at a second meeting  with Mr A. 
And that this benefit was to cover  Mr As basic salary as well as some of his average 
dividend income.  
Chartwells letter to Mr A in June  2012 stated it had assumed a benefit of £3,000  per 
month. And in its July 2012 letter  it said We agreed  a benefit of £4,000 per month. This 
evidence persuades me to accept what Chartwell  has said about its conversations with Mr A. 
The maximum monthly benefit Mr A could  have been covered for on his salary  was £3,020. 
In asking Chartwell to increase the benefit  amount to £4,000,  I think Mr A would have been 
aware that this was providing cover for some of his dividends in addition to his salary. 
Otherwise he would have been  unable  to take out a policy  with a benefit of £4,000  per 
month. And Im satisfied that Chartwell  increased the benefit amount from what  it had 
originally suggested,  because of Mr As request.  
Turning back to the dividends - Mr A said he didnt need cover as he would have continued 
to receive the payments. However, at the point at which  Mr A took out the policy,  there was 
no guarantee that he would continue to receive dividends  from his shares at the same level 
as he had done in the past. The business  could have underperformed  leading to Mr A 
receiving lower dividend  payments  than hed been used  to, or none at all. In the event of 
Mr As incapacity, the policy would  have paid a benefit covering his salary and some  of his 
average dividend  income,  regardless of his companys performance.  So,  I think the cover  
for part of the dividends  was still useful to Mr A. 
eligibility to make  a claim
Mr A said he thought the insurer  may not have paid a claim on the policy due to his salary  
being lower than the amount of earnings stated on the application (which included  his 
dividends). 
Chartwell said it contacted the insurer and had been advised that it would have paid a claim. 
Ive reviewed the wording  of the policy around  dividends and have found that the insurer  
defined dividends received from the policyholders  business as earnings. So, Im satisfied 
Mr As earnings being made up of his salary  and dividends didnt make a difference. And he 
would have been eligible  to make a claim against  the policy.
Ref: DRN03626204Mr A has said he thinks he should  receive  a refund  of all of the premiums  he paid for the 
policy. However, based on the evidence Ive seen and the reasons Ive explained, I think  the 
policy Mr A took out was appropriate for him at the time, and he has had the benefit of the 
cover. So I dont think it would be fair for him to receive any refund of premiums.  
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  
Chartwell Financial Services Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0362620