K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that J D Williams & Company  Limited (trading as Simply Be) didnt refund 
her for items she returned, refused to close her account, charged her late payment fees, and 
ignored her emails.
background
Miss C had a catalogue shopping account with JD Williams. She bought  a number of items 
and then returned them, and she complains that she did not receive refunds for these 
returned items. She also asked JD Williams to refund some late payment  fees which were 
charged after she complained, and she asked  for her account to be closed, but she says her 
emails were ignored. She is worried about  the effect on her credit file.
JD Williams said that it had refunded  all of the returned items, and that some items had not 
been returned and so they had not been  refunded. This is in dispute. JD Williams  also said 
that it could not close  the account because it still had an outstanding balance. It would not 
refund the fees because Miss C was supposed to have made her required payments on time 
even while  she disputed  the account  balance. However Miss C had also had a second 
account, and so JD Williams had closed that account for her.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He looked through  Miss Cs account  history 
and identified 20 items relevant to this complaint, out of which 11 had been returned and 
refunded, and 9 had not been  returned and so had not been refunded. He therefore 
concluded that no refunds were outstanding. Miss C does not accept this conclusion:  she 
insists that she returned  more items than that. She has provided receipts from a parcel  
delivery service to show that she returned  some items in September  2018. However, as the 
investigator pointed  out, these dont show which items were  returned.
The investigator didnt  think the late payment fees should  be refunded, or that the remaining 
account should be closed while a balance remained outstanding.  But he did uphold Miss Cs 
complaint about  her emails being  ignored.  He recommended that JD Williams pay her £100 
for her trouble. JD Williams did not agree that that issue had been  part of Miss Cs 
complaint, and questioned the propriety of the investigator commenting on that matter. It 
pointed out that ignoring emails is not a complaint about a financial service  in its own right.  It 
added that its complaint  handler had given  Miss C a full answer to her complaint. The 
investigator referred this case for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote  a provisional decision 
which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has said that she returned  nine orders  which have not been refunded. She 
highlighted them on a list of orders  which had been provided to her by JD Williams. 
JD Williams has provided a more detailed copy of her account history in a spreadsheet, and 
I have identified each  of the orders in that document and looked  for corresponding entries  
among the returned items.  The orders are listed below, with the dates they were ordered, 
and my findings about each one.
Clarissa t-shirt,  18 October 2017. I can see no evidence that it was returned.
Ref: DRN09507492Kaftan, white, 2 January 2018  (3 Jan in the list provided to Miss C). A black one 
(ordered earlier) was returned on 16 January, but I can see no evidence  that the 
white one was returned.
Hooded bomber, size 24, 24 May 2018.  A size 20 was returned on 24 April, but I can 
see no evidence that the size 24 was returned.
Skechers, size 7, 29 May 2018.  A size 8 was returned on 4 June, but I can see no 
evidence that the size 7 was returned.
3 pack bundle, two of these were  ordered  on 10 July 2018 (Miss C only complains 
about one of these). One of them was returned  on 24 July. I can see no evidence  
that both were returned.
Three Batwing tops (Miss C only complains about one of these), black,  two in size 
16/18 and one in size 20/22, 22 July 2018. Some charcoal  ones, ordered on 10 July, 
were returned and one black size 16/18  was returned, but I can see no evidence  that 
the other black ones  were returned.
Lovedrobe blouse, 22 July 2018.  Another  one which was ordered  earlier  was 
returned on 8 August,  but I can see no evidence that both were  returned.
Two Tankini tops, both black size 22, 2 Sept 2018 (but Miss C only complains about 
one of these). One of them was returned on 18 September, but I can see no 
evidence that the other one was.
Beach  kimono,  size 24, 27 Sept 18 (dated the next day on the list provided to 
Miss C). Another one which was ordered earlier was returned on 18 October, but 
I can see no evidence that this one was returned.
All of the items which were listed as returned  were refunded  by reducing the account 
balance. Miss C has provided three receipts  from a parcel company,  one undated and the 
others dated 13 and 24 September  2018,  but they do not identify what was returned, so they 
dont prove  that any of the above items  were  returned. Numerous items which were returned 
by Miss C were refunded on 18 and 28 September (including one of the two tankini  tops, as 
I have already mentioned), so the receipts might well relate  to those returns,  but the disputed 
items are not listed among the returned items. So I have no reason to doubt  that JD Williams 
has refunded all of the items which Miss C returned, or to think  that JD Williams still owes 
her any more refunds.
I dont think that JD Williams did anything wrong  by charging late payment  fees when it didnt 
receive the monthly payments  as they fell due, or by refusing to close  an account which  still 
had an outstanding unpaid balance. Her credit score  may be affected, but JD Williams is 
required to report an accurate history of her account, and so it must report late payments 
when they happen.
I dont agree that Miss C didnt raise  customer service  at the start of her complaint. In two 
places in our complaint  form,  she wrote I was ignored and they  are not listening or even 
trying to resolve. Although that is not a complaint specifically  about a financial service,  it is 
so closely related to the underlying financial issue  she was originally complaining about that 
it would  be artificial to try to separate  them   it is a complaint that JD Williams  didnt do 
enough to address the late payment fees and the ongoing impact on her credit file. So I find 
that this issue does fall within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
However, Miss C complained to JD Williams in December 2018  and received its final 
response letter on 18 January 2019. A business  is allowed eight weeks  to send its final 
response after it receives a complaint, so JD Williams responded well within time. Its final 
response letter said that it considered the complaint closed, and that if she was not satisfied  
then she could bring a complaint to our Service. Miss C has sent us numerous screenshots  
Ref: DRN09507493of emails she sent to JD Williams after 18 January, and I accept that JD Williams  ignored 
them, but I dont  think it had to answer  them. As far as it was concerned, the matter was 
closed, and if Miss C didnt agree then it had told her what she had to do. So I do not agree 
that it should have to pay her £100.  Im sorry that this will disappoint Miss C.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold  this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss C insisted that she definitely did return  the items, and she is sure that the same  
problem must have happened  to other  people.  She said she has been caused  a great deal 
of stress.
I was sorry to read that, but I have not changed  my mind about  what I wrote  in my 
provisional findings. I have therefore  not waited for JD Williams to respond, which  I think  is 
fair since I have not upheld any of the complaint points against  it or criticised it.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2020. But if we dont hear from her, then we will 
presume that she rejects it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0950749