K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-informed her about the second mortgage she 
took out. She wants the exit fees reduced  and compensation.
background
Mrs L had a mortgage with HSBC for one property  (borrowing 90% of the value of the 
property). She got another  mortgage for a second  property  jointly  with her partner from 
HSBC in 2016. In 2017,  Mrs L took out a mortgage  product due to last for five years for the 
first mortgage; it was able to be transferred  (ported) to another property. In 2018, Mrs L 
wanted to port the first mortgage to a new property, and was told that due to the existence of 
the second property and its mortgage, under HSBCs current lending policies she could only 
borrow 80% of the value  of the new property.  Mrs L felt HSBC shouldve  warned her that the 
second mortgage might affect her future borrowing and said if it had, she wouldnt have 
taken out the product in 2017 for the first property.  She was particularly unhappy  as if the 
first mortgage was repaid early, shed have  to pay an early repayment  charge (ERC). 
Mrs L complained to HSBC. It said it hadnt made  a mistake and didnt advise consumers 
about the possible effects of borrowing on future  applications for other properties.
Mrs L complained to us. The adjudicators view was that HSBC was able to use its 
commercial judgement and set lending policies. Its policies said that if a consumer had two 
properties mortgaged  with it, the limit which could be borrowed for either  property was 80% 
of the value of the property. He didnt  think  HSBC  was required to tell Mrs L when taking out 
the second mortgage about the possible effect on future borrowing, particularly as lending 
policies change frequently. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Mrs L disagreed. She said that lenders should be required by the Financial  Conduct  
Authority to warn consumers about  the impact of taking out a mortgage on future lending.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are able to decide to whom to lend and on what basis   this means that they can 
set lending policies,  provided that they apply them fairly and reasonably. In Mrs Ls case, 
HSBC doesnt  allow consumers to borrow more than 80% of the value of a property if more 
than one property  is mortgaged with it. I cant interfere with that, and theres no evidence that 
the policy has been applied unfairly or unreasonably  in her case.
The core of this complaint  is whether  HSBC  shouldve  warned Mrs L when she took out the 
second mortgage that under its lending policies  the amount  she could borrow in the future  if 
she chose to port the first mortgage might be limited. My view is that it wasnt required  to do 
so under the mortgage rules, and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to expect it to have  
done so for several reasons. 
Ref: DRN04118912First, lenders change their lending policies often  and cant predict what  they might be in the 
future (and some are confidential). Second, HSBC was required to ensure that the second 
mortgage was suitable to meet the consumers needs; it wasnt required to give general 
financial advice. And in any event, Mrs L chose to take out a new mortgage product in 2017; 
the offer makes it clear that the product is portable  if HSBCs lending policies at the time of 
the port are met. There was no guarantee that the product could be ported.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept  or reject my decision before 
1 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0411891