K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr M says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think that Barclays made it clear Mr M didnt have to take out PPI with his credit card 
and that he chose to take it. It was a postal  application  and Barclays has been  able to 
give us a copy of the credit agreement.  Mr M has ticked the yes box in order to take the 
PPI. There was an equally prominent no box he could have  ticked if he hadnt  wanted 
the policy. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But he chose to take out the policy  - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI  a pre-existing 
medical condition  as an example. So the policy would have been useful for Mr M if 
something went wrong. And so I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he has said about his 
employment and employee benefits  if he wasnt able to work. But Ive considered this 
and the policy would  have paid out over and above his employee  benefits, and for longer 
if he made a successful claim. So these points dont change my decision.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN07280932The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0728093