K821x#15complaint
Mr J says that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was intending to uphold  Mr Js complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Mr J responded  with some more information as to why he feels the policy was mis-sold. 
As Im upholding his complaint for another reason, I wont be commenting further on why he 
additionally feels the PPI was mis-sold.
Santander didnt  respond to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr J in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr J the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Js complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
 
Ref: DRN03062072Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN03062073copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr J says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 1998.    
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.  
Im currently  intending  to uphold Mr Js complaint because:
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr J but I dont think  it was right for him. I say this 
because Mr J has told us that he had a medical  condition when he bought the policy  which 
wouldnt have been covered. Mr J has also told us about the impact the condition had on his 
life. 
I dont think Mr J wouldve bought the policy if Santander had made  clear  it wasnt  right for 
him. So, I think Mr J has lost out because of what Santander  did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  its said about the application 
form and Mr J signing beside an overall declaration about his health.  But this declaration 
consisted of a series  of points that, in my opinion, Mr J could  quite easily have glossed over. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Santander  took reasonable  steps to check that the policy 
was right for Mr J or draw his attention to the PEMC  exclusion, and I still think I should 
uphold the complaint.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr J in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr J the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN03062074 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently intend  to uphold  Mr Js complaint.
If either  Mr J or Santander UK Plc have anything further to add, they should do so by          
19 March 2019.  Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0306207