K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Miss C have complained that Countrywide Principal Services Limited failed to 
inform them  they wouldnt qualify for a government bonus under the help to buy ISA scheme  
if the cost of the property they bought exceeded £250,000. They also complained that they 
shouldve been  given an additional option when the issue came  to light. 
background
Mr B and Miss C were  first time buyers  who opened two help to buy ISA bank accounts with 
a high street  bank  in 2015,  so that they might qualify for a government bonus  when they 
bought a residential property. In order to qualify for the bonus HMRC rules  say individuals 
must be first time buyers; must open accounts in sole names; must buy a property up to the 
value of £250,000 outside London  or £450,000  inside London  and have a conveyancer  claim 
the bonus on their behalf. 
Mr B and Miss C met with a countrywide  advisor  in person in early  April 2018. The advisors 
case notes show they informed him their deposit  was made  up of standard  savings, bonds 
and their two help to buy ISA accounts. After discussion, Mr B and Miss C submitted a 
mortgage decision in principle application  for around £225,000, which  was approved.  
Mr B and Miss C had an offer accepted on a property for £285,000 in mid-May and a 
mortgage application was submitted by the advisor  for around £220,000. This was amended 
soon afterwards to just over £225,000. So Mr B and Miss C would be putting  in a £60,000 
deposit. 
In June 2018, around two weeks before contracts  were due to be exchanged  on the house 
purchase, Mr B and Miss C became aware that they werent eligible for bonuses  under the 
ISA scheme as the property they were  buying  cost more than £250,000. The combined 
bonus, if theyd  been eligible, wouldve been £3,790. 
Mr B and Miss C raised a complaint with Countrywide. It responded and said it wasnt the 
responsibility of its consultant to advise them of the limits of the help to buy ISA. It was Mr B 
and Miss Cs personal responsibility to read the relevant terms and conditions at the time 
they opened the accounts and to be aware of the limits in place. It also said the relevant 
banks website and terms make it clear that there  is a £250,000 limit in place. 
Mr B and Miss C also complained to Countrywide that they werent  given the option to 
increase the amount of their mortgage when the shortfall, caused by them  not receiving the 
ISA bonuses, came to light. And they said this was because of an earlier error by the advisor 
when he had to change the amount requested to the full amount of the decision in principal.  
Countrywide said it was not the case that they couldnt change the amount of their mortgage 
because of this error.  
Mr B and Miss C were  unhappy with the response and complained  to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  uphold their complaint. She said Countrywides role was to broker  the best 
possible mortgage for Mr B and Miss Cs circumstances. And this didnt extend to providing  
advice in relation  to a bank account opened some years before. The relevant bank wouldve 
provided terms and conditions and Mr B and Miss C had a duty to read and understand 
these. Our investigator also concluded  that Countrywide acted  reasonably once it became 
clear Mr B and Miss C werent eligible to benefit under the ISA scheme. 
Ref: DRN06329752Mr B and Miss C were  unhappy with the outcome  and the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 December 2018. I explained that I intended to uphold  
Mr B and Miss Cs complaint in part. I gave both parties until 27 January 2019 to respond 
with any further  comments.  
Mr B responded and said he and Miss C agree with my findings and the proposed  distress 
and inconvenience  payment of £500. They had no further comments  to add. 
Countrywide responded and said it doesnt think it was for its consultant to advise on a 
product taken independently  by the clients  a few years prior to their meeting. It said the client 
should take full responsibility  for this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding 
Mr B and Miss Cs complaint in part. 
Mr B and Miss C said they shouldve  been  told by the mortgage advisor that they would  
need to buy a house valued at no more than £250,000 in order to be eligible for the 
government ISA bonus. 
Its clear from the literature provided by Countrywide that the service  it offered was mortgage 
advice. So the objective here was to provide Mr B and Miss C with the best possible 
mortgage deal to suit their individual circumstances. The documents show  the priority for 
Countrywide was to be certain that the mortgage product found for Mr B and Miss C was 
affordable and achieved the other  objectives  assessed as important for them. But, without 
the ISA bonus,  the house chosen by the couple was potentially  unaffordable for them. They  
said they had to borrow money  from family  to complete  the purchase. 
I would expect a mortgage advisor to know the rules of a government backed saving scheme 
aimed at helping people to save for their first property and to explain such an important 
restriction to customers they are advising.  Its clear the advisor here didnt know  the rules  of 
the scheme. And if he had known, he wouldve been able to flag up to Mr B and Miss C that 
the house they wanted to buy would either leave them ineligible for the bonus  or, without the 
bonus, was out of their reach  without  further  borrowing  or a larger deposit. By not doing so, 
Countrywide didnt  allow them  to make an informed decision  about  how to move forward  with 
the house purchase. 
That said,  I also think Mr B and Miss C shouldve known more about  the account  that was 
opened by them three years  prior to them  engaging the services of the mortgage advisor. 
The banks website  provides ample information  about the criteria  for getting the bonus and 
they wouldve  likely been provided with this when they opened the account.
The question now is whether Mr B and Miss C wouldve done anything  differently if the 
advisor had taken the eligibility criteria for the ISA bonuses into account.  From what 
Mr B and Miss C said, they initially planned to buy a property for around  £210,000. But their 
mortgage provider  was willing to lend them around £225,000 and they also had a deposit of 
over £60,000. So this put them in a position  where they could afford  a considerably  higher 
priced house then they thought would be the case  with or without the ISA bonus. 
Ref: DRN06329753Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr B and Miss C wouldve opted  to buy a higher priced 
house, close to the full extent of what they could borrow, even if they had known that they 
would lose the ISA bonus as a result. I say this because,  by buying at this higher price, they 
got more in return such as their preferred  property  type, in a more desirable location,  which  
is significantly more valuable than they originally thought they could afford. And ultimately 
this is what they did.
Mr B and Miss C have asked Countrywide  to pay them the amount of the bonuses they lost. 
When a business  makes an error of some kind we would usually ask it to put consumers 
back in the position they wouldve  been in if the error hadnt  happened. But we cant do that 
on this occasion  because Mr B and Miss C have bought a house that makes them ineligible  
for the bonuses. And, as Ive already said, I dont think, had they been given the correct 
advice, they wouldve gone for a lower priced  property. In addition, although I realise that 
Mr B and Miss C were  close  to exchanging  contracts by the time they found out they 
wouldnt get the bonus, and so had incurred various  professional expenses, they did still opt 
to carry on with the house purchase  in the knowledge that they wouldnt get the bonuses. 
But its clear that Mr B and Miss C have experienced some distress  and inconvenience as a 
result of this situation. In particular they had to ask family to lend them enough money  to 
help with the shortfall in their deposit.  I think that Countrywide couldve done more  by going 
back to the mortgage provider  to see if borrowing couldve  been increased by the amount of 
the bonus for which Mr B and Miss C were no longer eligible. Because  of this, I think 
Countrywide should pay Mr B and Miss C £500 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Countrywide  Principal Services Limited  to pay £500 to Mr B and Miss C for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019. 
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0632975