K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made an entry about him on a 
fraud prevention database when he applied for a mortgage.
background 
Mr S applied for a mortgage with several lenders, including  Halifax, via a broker  but his 
applications were  turned down.
Mr S later learned  that Halifax and another lender had made a report to fraud prevention  
databases indicating  that there was suspected fraud  in his applications.
Mr S instructed solicitors  to act on his behalf. The solicitors wrote to Halifax  and the other 
lender. They  said they understood that the problem  was because the income  Mr S had 
declared on the applications  didnt  match his tax records. The solicitors said that this was 
because Mr Ss previous  employers accountant had made an error in how his income  was 
reported to HMRC. This error had since been  corrected. The other lender agreed to remove 
the entry it had made on the register. But Halifax didnt.  So Mr S complained.
After the complaint was brought to us, Halifax  agreed to remove  the marker. Our investigator  
said that it was reasonable for Halifax to have reported to the database originally, based on 
the evidence it had available at the time. And it was reasonable for it to be removed once 
further evidence   the correction of Mr Ss records at HMRC  came  to light.  So she didnt 
ask Halifax to take any further action.
Mr Ss solicitors  didnt accept that. They said that Halifax had acted unfairly.  Mr S had 
applied for a mortgage in February  2017.  He later discovered the markers and in 2018 asked 
Halifax and the other  bank to remove them. The other bank agreed  to do so in October 
2018, but Halifax refused in November 2018. 
Mr S then complained. In April 2019, his solicitors sent a letter  before  legal  action to Halifax,  
and issued proceedings in May 2019.  The proceedings were stayed by consent in June 
2019 for the Financial Ombudsman  Service to consider the complaint. Halifax  agreed to 
remove the marker in July 2019.  
Mr Ss solicitors  said that they werent complaining about the marker  being recorded in 2017. 
The complaint was that Halifax  didnt  remove it in 2018 when notified of the error on Mr Ss 
tax records and given  evidence that it had been corrected. Halifax said it took the marker  off 
when it reviewed the evidence in 2019   but the solicitors showed that Halifax  had in fact 
had the evidence since September 2018.
As a result of the delay  in removing the marker, Mr Ss solicitors said that Mr S had incurred 
significant financial losses. These included:
Almost £60,000  in lost income
£19,000 in legal  fees and court costs
£1,500 fees paid to his mortgage  broker.
He had also lost the chance to purchase  a property and benefit from rising house  prices. 
Ref: DRN05332972The lost income  was, the solicitors said, because the marker meant Mr S couldnt  open a 
business bank  account. This meant  that his business effectively couldnt trade  it was 
active, and supplying customers, but its customers refused to pay invoices without details of 
a business bank account into which to make payment. And his customers  refused to pay into 
his personal account.
Our investigator didnt  think Halifax could  be held liable  for Mr Ss businesss losses.  And 
she said it wasnt necessary to instruct solicitors or issue  legal  proceedings. A complaint can 
be made to the Financial  Ombudsman Service free of charge. 
But she did think Halifax had the evidence it needed  to remove the marker in 2018, and 
should reasonably have  done so then rather than in July 2019.  She said it should pay Mr S 
£250 compensation. So Mr Ss solicitors asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
I reached a similar outcome to the investigator, but for different reasons. So I issued  a 
provisional decision in which  I said:
Though it seems  no longer to be in dispute, for completeness  I say that Im satisfied  
based on the evidence Ive seen  that it was reasonable for Halifax  to apply the 
marker when it couldnt verify the income information included  with Mr Ss mortgage 
application.
However, when evidence came to light that this was because of an error by Mr Ss 
former employer, rather than fraudulent intent on his behalf, it was also fair for it to be 
removed.
And I agree that Halifax should  have  removed the marker sooner than it did. It had all 
the available  evidence to do so in September 2018  so there  was an unreasonable 
delay in only removing  it in July 2019.
Whats still in dispute is what Halifax needs  to do to put matters  right.  Mr Ss solicitors 
have claimed for three separate things, and Ill deal with each  plus compensation 
for Mr Ss trouble and upset  in turn.
£60,000 in lost earnings
Mr S bought a limited  company  that used to employ him from its previous owners. He 
then became the majority  shareholder and sole director.  His solicitors say he was 
unable to open a business  bank account because  of the fraud marker, and so his 
customers would not pay him. They would only pay into the companys business 
bank account   which it didnt have  not Mr Ss personal account. The solicitors say 
that because of the passage of time those losses are now irrecoverable.
I have no power to make the award that Mr Ss solicitors have sought. This complaint  
is brought by Mr S in his personal capacity. But the losses are those  of his limited  
company, which  Ill call J.
Mr S and J are separate persons in law. A limited company is a legal person in its 
own right.
Our rules, known as the DISP rules,  set out my powers. I must operate within the 
rules, and have no power to set them aside or depart from them.
Ref: DRN05332973The rules  define  a complaint as
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction,  whether  justified or not, 
from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a 
financial service  which
(a)Alleges that that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial 
loss, material distress  or material inconvenience

Reference to a complaint includes under all jurisdictions, part of a complaint.
Another rule, to be found at DISP 2.7.3 R in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  
Handbook, says that a complaint may only be brought by an eligible complainant  
that is, someone who meets two conditions:
The type of person;  and
Has one of the specified relationships  with the business complained  about.
Mr S is eligible  to complain under both conditions, as he is a consumer and a 
potential customer (that is, he applied to it for a mortgage, of Halifax).
However, as the definition  of a complaint says, his complaint must involve an 
allegation that he as the complainant has suffered a loss. 
And, as a consumer, he must be acting for purposes outside his trade, business or 
profession.
Mr S is therefore not eligible to bring a complaint about these losses.  They are not 
his losses, they are Js. They therefore do not form part of his complaint, as defined.  
And in claiming  for his businesss  losses, he is not acting for purposes outside  his 
trade business or profession.
And J cant bring a complaint about  these losses either. Although  they are Js losses 
(and so fall within the definition of a complaint J could bring),  J isnt eligible to 
complain. It might fall under the micro-enterprise (rather than consumer)  person type, 
depending on its size. But J doesnt have one of the specified relationships with 
Halifax. J was not Halifaxs potential customer;  J didnt apply for the mortgage, Mr S 
did.
Therefore I cant consider  this part of Mr Ss complaint. Mr S cant bring a complaint 
to us about these  losses  because they are not his losses and not incurred outside his 
business. And J cant complain about  them because they dont arise  from a 
relationship J has with Halifax. 
legal fees
I dont think it would  be fair to award Mr S the legal fees he has incurred. The 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is a free alternative to the courts.  There are no fees or 
costs involved in using  us. And it is not necessary to instruct professional 
representatives to complain to us. 
Ref: DRN05332974Mr S was of course entitled to use solicitors  to bring his complaint if he wished to do 
so. But since it wasnt necessary for him to do so, I dont think  it would be fair to 
expect Halifax to bear the costs of his choice  to use solicitors to bring  his complaint 
to us.
And as for the legal costs  incurred in the court case,  they are not related to the costs 
of bringing this complaint to us. They are a matter to be decided  in the course  of the 
litigation, not the course of this complaint.  I dont make any award for them  here, 
since it was Mr Ss choice to pursue legal action in addition  to his complaint to us and 
the litigation was not necessary to the resolution  of this complaint.
mortgage broker fees and loss of property
I dont think it would  be fair to require  Halifax  to pay Mr S the fees he paid to the 
broker, either. I havent seen a copy of his fee agreement with the broker.  But Im 
aware that its usual  for a fee to be payable whether or not the mortgage application 
is granted. So Mr S would, most  likely, have been required to pay the broker 
regardless of the outcome  of his application. And I dont think  Halifax  acted 
unreasonably in rejecting the application, and recording the marker on the database, 
based on the evidence it had at the time. It was only later, when  his tax records were 
corrected, that Halifax  could have been expected  to act differently.
For the same reasons,  I dont think Halifax is responsible for Mr S losing the property 
he wanted to buy in 2017. With his tax records as they were at the time  which  
wasnt Halifaxs fault  a mortgage application  would never have been approved.
And while Halifax could  have removed the marker  six months sooner than it did, I 
dont think I can safely say this caused  Mr S actual quantifiable financial loss in terms 
of property ownership. Ive seen  no evidence that he would definitely have bought a 
property in 2018 had the marker been  removed sooner, or that he has lost out on 
appreciation of property  value as a result.
Mr Ss trouble and upset
Ive said there was delay  in taking off the marker.  Ive explained that I cant take into 
account the impact  that had on Mr Ss business.  But even leaving that aside, Im 
satisfied the delay in removing the marker  caused Mr S worry and upset, as well as 
inconvenience, in complaining to Halifax and having  to wait for it to be removed. I 
agree that £250 is fair compensation.
Neither party wished  to add anything further  in response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of neither  party making any further  argument,  I find I havent 
changed my mind about what  is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. Im satisfied, for the 
reasons I gave, that £250 compensation is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ref: DRN05332975my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
Remove records of this mortgage application from external fraud prevention  
databases; and
Pay Mr S £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0533297