K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Calpe Insurance Company Limited settled another drivers claim on her 
motor insurance policy  and then cancelled her policy and asked for the rest of the premium 
to be paid. 
background
Another driver claimed that Ms S had hit his parked and unattended car. An independent  
witness saw the incident and noted Ms Ss car registration  and CTV footage showed a 
similar car to Ms Ss at the scene. So Calpe settled  the other drivers claim. It said Ms S 
hadnt co-operated with the investigation so it cancelled her policy,  requested  payment of the 
full premium and said Ms S would have to pay the other drivers claim outlay. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Calpe 
had no option  but to accept liability and settle the other drivers claim.  But he thought  Calpe 
had unfairly cancelled the policy.  This was because he thought  Ms S not sending  in required 
documentation hadnt prejudiced Calpe. He thought it didnt take into account  Ms Ss 
personal circumstances and she did contact it before the required date to assist the 
investigation. 
The adjudicator thought  Calpe should remove records of the cancellation, waive  any 
outstanding premiums and interest, pay the claim costs over the policy  excess and pay Ms S 
£200 compensation for the distress caused her. 
Calpe replied that it was entitled by the policy  terms to cancel the policy  as Ms S hadnt 
provided the required documentation  to confirm indemnity. It thought it was reasonable to 
cancel the policy as Ms S may not have the correct indemnity documents and have another 
claim. It said it couldnt see why it should pay compensation.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S was unhappy  that Calpe  accepted liability for the claim. The adjudicator  has already 
explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is 
the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate  
how the insurer made the decision  to settle  the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably  and in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the policy?
Calpe is entitled  under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Ms S to take over,  defend, 
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Ms S has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether  she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. 
Ref: DRN00502472Ms S denied all knowledge  of the incident.  She said she wasnt at the incident location  at the 
time, though  she lives 15 minutes  away. She said the assessor had agreed there was no 
damage to her car. Ive seen this report and it says that there was no damage on Ms Ss car 
comparable to the areas of damage on the damaged car. But it also said that there was 
damage to the other car but its comparison was inconclusive.  
But Calpe had to consider  that an independent  witness, who was prepared  to attend court, 
saw the incident and recorded her cars number plate. The witness described the cars driver 
as male. There was also CCTV footage of a car of the same make, model  and appearance 
as Ms Ss at the scene.  So Calpe thought it had no evidence to defend  Ms Ss position. And 
so it thought it had no option  but to accept liability and deal with the other drivers claim. 
I think Calpe  was entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. I think  it reasonably  
investigated the claim and considered the evidence available  before making  its decision.  So 
I cant say it did anything  wrong in this.
Calpe said Ms S hadnt complied with the policy terms by providing a completed accident  
report form or the required documentation to confirm indemnity. So it cancelled  the policy,  
required payment  of the full premium and held Ms S liable  for the outlay  to settle the other 
drivers claim. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  Calpe has quoted the relevant 
policy term. This says that it can cancel  a policy if the consumer doesnt send required 
document and this significantly hinders our ability to process a claim or our ability to defend 
the underwriters interests
Calpe decided that it had no choice but to settle the other drivers claim because of the 
strength of the evidence. So I cant say that Ms S not providing  an accident report or the 
required documents caused Calpe  any prejudice  as it had decided it must accept liability in 
any case.  
Furthermore, Ms S had made  it clear  to Calpe whilst it was pursuing  her for this information  
that her child was seriously  ill in hospital.  I can see that she did call Calpe and she provided 
what information she could about  the event, i.e. that she wasnt  there at the time and details 
of her partner. So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Calpe to apply this policy  term 
and cancel Ms Ss policy. 
Calpe later said that it cancelled the policy because it couldnt confirm indemnity without the 
required documents. But this wasnt the reason it provided to Ms S at the time.  So I dont 
think its fair for it to rely on it now. 
I think that, as Calpe unfairly cancelled Ms Ss policy, it should remove  record of the 
cancellation from any databases. Ms S said she hasnt taken out cover elsewhere. So I 
agree with the adjudicator  that Calpe should  waive the outstanding premium and any 
charges applied for non-payment. 
 
I think Ms S should pay her policy excess, as thats the first part of a claim to be paid. But I 
think Calpe  shouldnt pursue her for the outlay it paid above this amount as the policy  was 
cancelled unfairly.
Ref: DRN00502473From what  I can see, Ms S made Calpe aware of her own health concerns only in her 
complaint to it. But I think Calpe should  have taken into consideration what Ms S had told it 
about her ill child and acted accordingly. I think its actions  have  caused  Ms S avoidable  
stress at a difficult time.  So I agree with the adjudicator that it should pay Ms S 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused her. I think £200 is fair and 
reasonable as its what Id award in similar  circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Remove record of the cancellation from internal and external databases.
2.Waive the remaining  policy  premiums and any charges applied for non-payment.
3.Pay any claim costs over and above the £1,500 policy excess. 
4.Pay Ms S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused her by its 
actions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0050247