K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with our adjudicator.
Mr Ms main  complaint  is that Barclays failed to make him aware that the PPI was optional 
and he says he didn't need the policy as he had other ways  to pay his credit card. 
Mr M has asked  for a review  so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Heres  why I say this.
I dont know what mightve  been discussed about  the PPI. But the application form Mr M 
completed made it clear  that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI and its been ticked to 
say he required it. I can see that he didn't  tick the form to include another  optional feature 
that was offered with the card  so it looks to me as if Mr M understood at the time that he 
couldve left the box blank if he hadnt  wanted  PPI.
I can understand why Mr M has forgotten  now as this was a long time ago. But I think its 
likely that Mr M wouldve been  able to see at the time that the application form showed that 
having the PPI was optional - and he chose to take it, signing the completed application at 
the end to confirm  the information  on the form.  
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr M. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So, although 
Mr M couldnt remember if the policy had been  recommended to him, looking at his 
complaint this way gives it the best chance of success.
Mr M was eligible for the policy.  There were  some things the policy didnt cover but it doesnt 
look as if those applied  in Mr Ms case when he took out his credit card. So, I dont think 
having more information about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve put him off taking it 
out. 
Mr M had some sick pay entitlement  through work. But the policy  wouldve paid more than 
his minimum credit  card repayments  for longer - up to 12 months  per claim in the event of 
accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. Bearing in mind that Mr M mightve also 
had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled, I think  this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
Ref: DRN01612242And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Ms credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Ive taken into account that Mr M mentioned  having savings he couldve  relied  on  but 
I havent seen  any details about this. So I cant assume Mr M wouldve had ready access  to 
enough money to make  PPI unsuitable  when  he took out this credit card.  And I dont know  if 
he wouldve always had savings he could depend on to make his monthly  repayments.  So 
this doesnt affect  my overall view. 
I dont know if Barclays properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what  it might  pay 
out if Mr M made a claim. But even if he hadnt  fully appreciated how much  PPI would 
actually cost on a month  to month  basis, Mr M chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems  to have wanted  it. The policy appears  to have been affordable for him 
when he took it out  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances  changed 
or he didnt  want to keep  paying for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr M wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0161224