K820x#14complaint
Ms K has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia Building Society)  
mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms K took out the mortgage in 2002. However the PPI policy  wasnt set up until 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms K disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms K has said that she wasnt made aware that the PPI was optional.  Ms K has said that 
when she arranged the mortgage in 2002  there were  lots of mix ups and failings made by 
The Co-op. It looks like this might  have related to the PPI as well because,  from the 
evidence Ive seen,  Ms K wanted PPI in 2002 but it wasnt set up. I know this because  Ive 
seen a letter  that Ms K sent to The Co-op in 2004  complaining that the PPI hadnt been set 
up in 2002. The paperwork to arrange  the policy was therefore done  in 2004.
Ms K actively sought cover in 2004  when she realized she didnt  have it. Ive no doubt that 
Ms K has provided her honest  recollection  of events. But she evidently doesnt remember  
the events of 2004 that clearly, which is not surprising given how long ago that was. As Ms K 
arranged the PPI two years after the mortgage was already running, she would have known 
that it wasnt a condition of the lending. Overall Im satisfied  that the policy was presented as 
optional. It satisfied that Ms K decided to take it out, knowing that she didnt  have to, even if 
she no longer remembers  doing so.
The Co-op didnt  advise Ms K to buy the policy, it merely responded to her direct approach in 
2004. So it didnt  need to ensure that it met her needs. But it did need to provide Ms K with 
enough information for her to make an informed  choice  about whether or not it was right for 
her.
I consider that Ms K would have known something  about the policy   that it would cover  her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work  due to accident, sickness  or unemployment  
- because I dont think shed have elected  to buy it without knowing anything  about it. And 
indeed Ms Ks letter to The Co-op  dated 9 June 2004 expresses concern  that she has not 
been covered  for the past two years.
Ms K says that she took out a life and critical illness policy in 2004 and she asks why she 
would have taken  out PPI when she already  had another form of cover. But life and critical 
illness policies cover a different  set of risks than mortgage PPI policies. Critical illness 
policies typically provide cover for a defined list of serious illnesses. However PPI will usually 
Ref: DRN02652782pay out for a wider  range of illnesses and injuries as long as they prevent  you from working. 
PPI policies also cover unemployment.
Its possible that The Co-op didnt provide as much  information as it should  have about  the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover.  But Ms K wasnt affected by any of 
those things, so I dont think that further information  would have caused her to change her 
mind.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0265278