K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold  them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage with BoS in June 1996  and didnt  take out PPI at that 
time. It was in June  1997 that they then bought PPI to cover their existing mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland doesnt have any documentation  for the sale of the PPI, which isnt 
surprising given how long ago it took place.  But this does  make the complaint more difficult  
to decide. So in reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as 
well as what I think is most likely  to have happened.
Mr and Mrs M say they were led to believe that they had to agree to the PPI in order  to get 
the mortgage. But as Ive mentioned above, they didnt actually take out PPI at the time of 
arranging their mortgage in 1996.  It was the following year that they bought  the policy. So it 
seems to me that, as the mortgage was already running, that the PPI was not a condition of 
the mortgage. The sale happened  a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and 
Mrs Ms recollection of events has faded.  On balance, I think they probably decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing  that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing  so.
BoS has said that it advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the policy. That means that in 
recommending it to them, it needed  to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know 
of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
The policy was set up to provide 60% of the benefit to Mr M and 40% to Mrs M. So some 
consideration seems  to have been given  to how best the policy would work for them.  Mr and 
Mrs M say they would have received between six and twelve months sick pay from their 
jobs. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer 
than they would have received full pay for. And the couple didnt have any other  means, 
such as savings, to fall back on. So I think the policy could have provided a useful benefit  at 
what would  have been a difficult time.
 
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So its not surprising if Mr and Mrs M had an interest  in 
protecting their repayments.
Ref: DRN08347582BoS also needed to provide Mr and Mrs M with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. I think that Mr and Mrs M would 
have been told something about the policy (that it would cover their mortgage payments if 
they were unable to work) because I dont think they would have agreed to buy the policy 
without knowing anything  at all about it.
Its possible that BoS could have provided  more information about the PPI, particularly about  
the things it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs M werent  affected by any of those things. As I think  
that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the PPI and decided  to buy it, I dont think  that further  
information would have caused  them to change their minds. So they havent lost out as a 
result of anything BoS may have done wrong. So theres nothing  that BoS needs to do to put 
things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0834758