K820x#14complaint
Mr G is a sole trader. He complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc sold a loan to him 
irresponsibly and took a number of other unreasonable actions  in relation to its lending  to 
him. He also says the bank acted unfairly  in relation to the current account of one of his 
businesses, including  closing  it without giving sufficient notice. 
Mr G said this led to personal  distress, business  losses, and an increase in his overall debt.
background
In 2008, Mr G was already running one business, which Ill refer to as C. He decided to buy 
a second business, a pub, for £375,000. NatWest provided part of the finance in the form of 
a loan for £230,000.
In 2009, Mr G moved the banking for C to NatWest as well. NatWest  opened a new current 
account for C, with an increased £40,000  overdraft  limit. They also agreed a £10,000  
overdraft for the pub. 
In 2010, NatWest transferred the relationship to its Specialised  Relationship Management 
(SRM) area in the light of missed loan payments  and overdraft excesses. 
There were several restructurings, in which the overdrafts were incorporated into loans. In 
2011, Mr G put the pub on the market and asked for his NatWest  borrowing to be put on an 
interest only basis. 
In 2012, the bank gave  Mr G notice to close Cs account. 
The sale of the pub was finally concluded in December 2013. A residual debt remained, 
secured on Mr Gs home. An agreement was reached to pay this in weekly instalments. 
In 2015, Mr G complained  that the bank  had lent to him irresponsibly to finance the pub 
purchase. NatWest  didnt  uphold the complaint and Mr G then asked our service to look into 
things. In November  2015, an ombudsman issued  a decision, in which he didnt uphold  the 
complaint. 
Mr G didnt agree with the ombudsmans findings.  And in November 2016,  he made a fresh 
complaint to the bank through its voluntary Global Restructuring Group  (GRG)  redress  
scheme, which was also available to SRM customers. He said,  in summary:
1.NatWest had lent to him irresponsibly to buy the pub
2.The bank  had carried out unreasonable short term restructurings of his loans, adding  
fees each time
3.NatWest had forced him to sell the pub for less than it was worth
4.The valuation the bank had commissioned at the outset was flawed
5.The bank  had failed  to adjust his repayments when the base rate fell
6.The bank  had promised like-for-like facilities when hed transferred in Cs banking.  
But theyd actually  required  security. 
7.The bank  had unreasonably closed Cs bank account  with insufficient notice.
Ref: DRN00327692The bank upheld  point  7 of his complaint listed above, as it said it hadnt given him enough 
notice, although  it had subsequently  agreed to an extension.  NatWest  apologised but didnt 
offer any compensation. 
Mr G didnt accept the banks findings  and referred his complaint to the Independent Third 
Party (ITP), which was the appeal stage of the GRG scheme. The ITP didnt change  the 
banks outcome. Mr G then referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. He said that some of Mr Gs points 
had been covered by the ombudsmans decision in 2015, so we shouldnt  reconsider those. 
He also said that points five and six above  had been  made  too late, as they related to events 
that had happened more  than six years ago and the bank hadnt agreed to us investigating 
them. 
Our investigator looked into point seven and concluded that the bank didnt need to do 
anything more to put this right. He said that, although the bank hadnt given enough notice, it 
had in the end given  him an extension. And there was no evidence  that the business  had 
suffered because of the short notice. 
Mr G disagreed with our investigator and made the following points:  
The closure of his bank account wasnt a standalone event but part of an attempt by 
the bank to bankrupt him. 
The bank  had reneged on a verbal  agreement to let him draw against uncleared 
amounts from a regular  weekly  cheque. 
The banks actions  were unreasonable given the amount of funds paid into Cs 
account and the fact that they had security. 
The bank  had caused damage to Cs goodwill  and caused him to lose supplier 
contracts by returning payments. This is turn led to him losing a profitable  franchise 
contract. 
As our investigator and Mr G didnt reach  an agreement, the complaint has now been 
passed to me to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for essentially  the same reasons. I know  this will be a 
disappointment to Mr G, so Ill explain why. 
In his replies to our investigators findings,  Mr G didnt comment on our powers to look into 
things, but for completeness,  Ill cover  those parts of Mr Gs complaint first. 
Was all of Mr Gs complaint made  in time?  
As our investigator explained,  we cant consider all of the complaints we receive. There are 
time limit rules. These are included in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules,  which  can be 
found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
Ref: DRN00327693If the bank  doesnt  agree  to us considering  the complaint, we can only look into it if:
the complaint  was made within six months of the date of the final response letter from 
the bank
the complaint  was made within six years of the date of the event the complaint  is 
about
or, if later, if the complaint was made within three years of when  the complainant 
knew, or should reasonably have known, he had reason to make  the complaint
unless a complaint  was made  within the time periods above and theres a written  
acknowledgement or some other record of it  or the delay in making the complaint 
was caused by exceptional circumstances.
The bank has agreed to us looking into everything  that happened  while  Mr Gs accounts 
were in SRM. But it hasnt  agreed  to us looking at any events before that. The events before 
this are points four to six above, that is, the point about the initial valuation, the part about  
the loan repayments not reducing and the bank not providing like-for-like  banking facilities to 
C. 
The initial lending also happened  before Mr G was in SRM. But this was the subject of an 
earlier complaint. This means that that element of the complaint is in time under the rules 
above. However, I consider below whether this matter should be considered  a second time 
by this service.
Mr G referred  his complaint to us within six months  of the date of the final response  letter.  So 
there's no problem with the six month part of the rule. But Mr G is complaining about events 
that happened in 2008 and 2009. The complaint referred to us was made more than six 
years after these events,  in 2016.  
As the complaint wasn't made within six years of the events it concerns, next I need to 
consider whether Mr G complained within three years of when he knew (or ought to have 
known) about the events he's complaining about. I'm satisfied that he is out of time on that 
basis too. 
Unfortunately, things went wrong  fairly  swiftly with Mr Gs purchase of the pub. I think he had 
reason to question  the initial valuation by 2011 at the latest, when the pub was put back up 
for sale. This means that the three year part of the rule doesnt give him any more time. 
The point about the loan repayments not reducing  with interest rates  was in my view evident 
at the time, as was the fact that the bank required security in order  to provide an overdraft to 
C. So I dont think the three year part of the rule gives these points any extra time either.  
Mr G hasnt made me aware of any exceptional circumstances which  prevented him from 
making the complaint earlier. My conclusion is therefore that points four to six havent been  
made in time. So I dont  have the power to look into them. 
There is one further point that Mr G has raised  that I will just mention  here.  He has said that 
it was unfair  that the bank would only consider his consequential loss claim if he accepted 
the outcome of his complaint. This is a complaint  about the way the bank is conducting its 
voluntary review process. The DISP rules say that we can only consider complaints about a 
specified list of activities. That list doesnt include banks own complaint  schemes.  So this is 
also not something I can look into.   
Ref: DRN00327694Has any of the complaint been  considered by this service before? 
As our investigator explained, there is another part of the DISP  rules, DISP 3.3.4, that sets 
out when this service  can dismiss a complaint  without consideration of its merits. One of the 
situations in which dismissal can be considered is where dealing with such a type 
of complaint would  otherwise seriously impair  the effective operation of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service.
DISP 3.3.4B  goes on to give examples  of the types  of complaint that would seriously  impair  
the effective operation of this service. One of them is:
where the subject  matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded  
under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence  which  
the Ombudsman considers likely  to affect  the outcome has subsequently become 
available to the complainant)
Ive looked carefully  at the complaint Mr G made  in 2016. The key elements were  that the 
bank shouldnt have  lent him the money  in the first place, carried  out unreasonable  
restructurings, charging new fees each time, and ultimately forced him to sell. Im satisfied 
that this is the same  complaint that he makes in points one to three above. 
Im not aware of any new evidence that I consider would be likely to affect the outcome of 
these parts of Mr Gs complaint. My conclusion  is therefore that these parts  of the complaint 
meet the definition  in DISP 3.3.4B of a complaint  where the subject matter has previously  
been considered.  
I know that Mr G feels very strongly about  what has happened and would like a detailed  
reconsideration of all elements of his complaint. But I can find no basis  here for reopening a 
previous ombudsmans decision. I am therefore dismissing this complaint without 
considering its merits. 
Did the bank  act unreasonably  in relation to C, including closing Cs account? 
This brings  me to Mr Gs final complaint point, which Mr G regards as far wider than just the 
closure of Cs bank account. Rather, he sees that as one step in a concerted attempt by the 
bank to put him out of business. And he believes  that, had C been  allowed to trade 
unimpeded, he could have traded his way out of his financial  problems. 
Mr G has argued  that NatWest engineered financial difficulties  in an otherwise profitable  
business by suddenly cancelling a verbal  agreement to pay items presented against an 
uncleared weekly  cheque.  Im not sure when he believes this occurred. But I have seen 
evidence that items  were  being regularly returned from the bank account as early  as 
November 2009,  the year the account was opened.
Its not clear how C ran up its overdraft so fast. But in April 2010, NatWest  believed Mr G 
was cross-firing between  Cs account  and an account with another  bank, that is, writing  
cheques on one account payable to himself  then paying them into the other bank and then 
repeating this so that both accounts appear  to have  more money than is actually the case. 
Given these concerns, it doesnt  seem unreasonable  that the bank might take a tougher line 
on any drawing against uncleared balances.  
Ref: DRN00327695Drawing against uncleared is effectively allowing an excess  on an account. This isnt 
something a bank is obliged to allow if it chooses not to, any more than it is obliged to pay 
any items that cause  the account  to exceed its overdraft limit. 
By June  2010,  the banks records indicate that Cs £40,000 overdraft was fully drawn and 
talks had begun about refinancing this onto a repayment loan in order to start reducing it. 
In short,  the evidence indicates  that although C may have been profitable, it nonetheless had 
cashflow problems. Im not persuaded these  problems were of the banks  making. Mr G may 
have lost contracts because the bank returned payments, but I think  the bank is entitled to 
return items if there isnt enough money  in the account to pay them. 
I know that the bank  had security for its lending to C. But this didnt mean it was obliged to 
allow excesses, or to keep the account open when it no longer wished to do so. 
By January 2012, the banks records note that it had had to return 43 items  unpaid over two 
months. Given this position, coupled with the previous  history  of the account, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for them to ask Mr G to close Cs account, something they were entitled  
to do under the accounts terms and conditions.  
The bank accepts  that it didnt give Mr G the notice  required under its own terms and 
conditions (60 days) and has apologised for that. But I can see that following an exchange of 
emails, when Mr G emailed to say hed found  new bankers but needed four weeks  more 
time, the bank did agree  an extension. 
Because the bank gave Mr G extra time in the end, and he did manage to transfer Cs 
banking successfully, my conclusion is that the banks actions in giving him short notice 
didnt cause him a loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about the actions of National 
Westminster Bank Plc in relation to Cs bank account.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0032769