K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs C took out the PPI in November 2001  at the same time as she arranged  the credit  card 
by filling  in a form in a branch of BoS.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she didnt know anything about  the PPI and therefore it must have been 
automatically added to the credit card account  without  her knowledge or consent. The credit 
card application  form has a separate section for PPI. Within this section  it states: Please 
enrol me in the Halifax Card Repayments Insurance Scheme costing just 78p per £100 of 
my statement  balance.Please  tick the box to enrol. Mrs C has ticked  the box to 
request the policy. She could have left it blank if she didnt  want  it.
 
The sale happened a long time ago, and Im not persuaded that Mrs C has any real 
recollection of the sale, which is not surprising. Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs C 
has said, but looking at the evidence, I think that Mrs C would have understood the optional 
nature of the policy. It seems to me that Mrs C decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mrs C to buy the policy.  Therefore in recommending  the PPI to Mrs C it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, 
it was suitable  for her.
Mrs Cs employer would have given  her between six and twelve  months pay if she was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
this and potentially  for longer than Mrs C would have received full pay for. And Mrs C didn't 
have any other means, such  as savings, to fall back on. Shes  said her family would have 
helped, but other people  cant always be relied  upon because their circumstances  can 
change. So I think the policy could have  provided Mrs C with a useful benefit at what would 
have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mrs C wasnt  affected by any of those things. 
As I think  that Mrs C had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  her to change her mind.
Ref: DRN02270522This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mrs C paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already given Mrs 
C back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0227052