K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance
(PPI) to her alongside a credit card in 2005.
I know the PPI was actually sold to Mrs S by Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (Halifax).
St Andrews  Plc is responsible for complaints like this about Halifax. But to keep things
simple, Ill refer to Halifax throughout this decision.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with that view.
So the matter  has been passed  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
I havent upheld  this complaint. Ill explain why below.
Halifax told us Mrs Ss policy was sold over the phone  and I think thats likely to be correct. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ss credit  application  form and the box opting for PPI has been left 
blank. And the policy was sold around two years  after the credit card was taken out, so I 
think its likely Mrs S knew the policy  was optional. Halifax hasnt  been  able to provide a copy  
of the call recording  and thats  not surprising given the policy  was sold so long ago. It 
mean I cant know what was said during the call. But Ive considered a Halifax  call script its 
likely the sales advisor wouldve  used thats available  from that time. Taking everything into 
account I think its likely Mrs S chose to take the policy knowing she had a choice. 
Halifax told us it recommended this PPI policy  to Mrs S. I havent  seen anything to suggest  
Halifaxs records are wrong on this point. So Ive proceeded on the basis  that this was an 
advised sale. That means Halifax had to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mrs S. Based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. Mrs S says she had sick pay and couldve relied on her husband  to 
help make her repayments. The PPI wouldve  paid out on top of any sick pay she wouldve 
received and for up to 12 months if she was unable to work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. And having the policy also meant she wouldnt have to rely on her husband 
whose ability  to help would depend  on his own circumstances at any given  time.  So I think  
she wouldve found the policy suitable  and that this was a suitable recommendation. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs S about the PPI  in particular about  the cost 
of the policy  - wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN07011272I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0701127