K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  Santander UK plc wont refund him for two sets of transactions  he 
didnt make.
background
In 2018 Mr L was the victim of fraud on three  separate  occasions.   
The first time was in May 2018  after his card was stolen. He believes his card was pinched 
after hed been seen taking some money  out of a cash machine.  Disputed transactions  then 
happened over a two week period before Mr L reported his card missing to Santander.  
Santander refunded transactions where  his card had been used to pay for car trips. They  
noted Mr L had no history of having  an account  with the relevant  provider.  However they 
wouldnt refund  just over £445 for predominantly disputed cash machine withdrawals.
In August  2018  after getting his new debit card (and PIN),  Mr L had things taken from a bag 
when he was having a bite to eat. This included his card, and the PIN. Santander wouldnt 
refund those transactions as Mr L had very clearly  kept his PIN with his card enabling  
someone to use his card.
In September  Mr L reported further fraud after his card had been taken from his bag. This 
followed him using  it along with the PIN. As Santander initially  felt there  was a point of 
compromise, they refunded those disputed transactions. However  the same  day they took 
the decision to give Mr L notice of their intention to close  his account.
Mr L brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator overall agreed with 
the stance Santander had made. Mr L was unhappy about this outcome. He provided further 
evidence to show why he was unable to report the first fraud earlier than June 2018.  Hes 
asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply   like gross  negligence  and Ill explain where theyve had an 
impact on the decision  Im making here.  So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly 
in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the 
customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be made. If they did, then 
we generally wouldnt  ask the bank  to refund them.
Ref: DRN08621302So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander  and Mr L have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were  made  
were covered in our investigators  views of 20 March and 28 April 2020.  Ive also seen Mr Ls 
detailed response  of 17 April to the first view. I dont intend to repeat  everything that was 
said there. I will, of course,  refer to those aspects which  form the basis of my decision. 
first fraud May-June 2018
Mr L has told us and Santander that he knew the group of women who he believed had 
taken his card on 19 May. Hes also explained  in detail  why he didnt contact Santander 
when he realised his wallet  was missing although  he had been to the police. Mr L did locate 
his wallet  and it was only his Santander card that ended up being missing.
Santander said they didnt believe there was a point of compromise  but obviously Mr L did 
use his card that evening  to take £30 out of a cash machine  and used his PIN at the time. 
That was only about an hour and a half before  the first disputed  cash  withdrawal.  
Like our investigator I have to wonder why Mr L didnt spend the few minutes needed to call 
Santander. He left it for a fortnight before contacting  them.  And I can see his story  changed  
in its re-telling to both Santander  and our service. Im aware  that Mr L was in bad health and 
certainly had other things  going on but that doesnt  explain  his actions fully. Mr L knew  he 
was still getting  payments  into his account so it would have been sensible to inform 
Santander so they could  take basic steps to protect his account. I can see he was getting  
messages from Santander notifying him that he was overdrawn.  He  didnt  seem  that 
surprised even though he knew he was actually  receiving money and wasnt spending 
anything himself. 
Mr L has confirmed hed been told by one of the group of women that theyd taken his card. 
The longer  he left it therefore, the longer someone was able to use his card.
Im not suggesting Mr L made the transactions  himself  but all the evidence  does  point to him 
being aware what was going on and showing he took no steps to stop the fraud.  
I can see why our investigator felt this meant  that in all likelihood Mr L authorised those 
transactions. I dont  disagree with her.
Mr L has felt that Santanders  actions in refunding some  of the disputed transactions  (those  
that werent conducted face-to-face using the card and PIN) show  they agree he didnt make 
them. It isnt only that aspect however. Santander identified Mr L hadnt  previously  held an 
account for car hire so had another reason why those transactions were  refunded.
second fraud August 2018
This happened not long after Mr L had got a replacement card and PIN from Santander. He 
told us he was keeping  his PIN with the card until he was able to change it. He was planning 
to do that immediately but just before he was able to his card was stolen.
Im afraid this all sounds a bit convenient. I dont  doubt opportunity fraud  happens regularly 
but it seems quite a coincidence that it happened to Mr L at the only time his card and PIN 
Ref: DRN08621303were together. Mr L has been adamant that a few things were  taken from his bag at the time 
 but not his wallet. Im surprised someone  risked unzipping part of his bag to get at the PIN 
and the loose change.
Mr L then didnt notice  immediately his card was gone even though  his specific intention  had 
been to change the PIN.
After our investigator agreed with Santander  that by keeping his card and PIN together  Mr L 
had acted in a grossly  negligent manner, Mr L insisted hed acted to deface the PIN details 
the bank had given him. Im afraid I dont believe this. The evidence shows  the right PIN was 
used first time so its clear that whoever used his card was able to see what the PIN was. Id 
also suggest that defacing the PIN details  suggest Mr L was careful with his card but the fact 
Mr L didnt notify  Santander  his card was missing immediately either  this time around or 
back in May doesnt  support this reading.
I dont disagree with Santander  that, by keeping his card and PIN together, Mr L acted in a 
grossly negligent  manner.
After confirming to Mr L they wouldnt refund him, Santander also confirmed that any future 
fraud claims  would result  in his account being closed.
third fraud August 2018
Mr L hasnt complained about this fraud  as Santander refunded him. This was because  they 
felt there  was enough to show his PIN may have  been compromised when Mr L first 
contacted them. I just note that one of the disputed withdrawals took place in a cash 
machine Mr L had used  previously.
Id also have thought that after having had his card stolen twice  within  three months would 
have led Mr L to being ultra-careful with his card. The fact his card was stolen again  
suggests he was being anything but.
Taking all the evidence into account, I dont  believe Santander has done anything  wrong  in 
not refunding  Mr L for the disputed transactions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ls complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0862130