K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  turned down  his claim under his travel  
insurance policy.
background
Mr M has travel insurance linked to his bank account. The insurer for the policy is Aviva.  
In 2018 Mr M unfortunately fell ill with pneumonia during a trekking holiday abroad. He 
became more ill as the trip went on and unfortunately  had to be airlifted to hospital.  He was 
diagnosed with bacterial  pneumonia  and altitude sickness. 
Mr M had bought a travel  insurance policy via an airline while travelling  abroad.  But when he 
tried to claim  the overseas insurer told him the policy didnt cover him because  he wasnt  a 
resident of the country where the insurance  company is based. 
Mr M recalled that he had insurance  linked to his bank account so he made a claim to Aviva.  
It asked some questions about the trip and Mr Ms illness,  but then turned down the claim. In 
summary, Aviva said it covered hiking and trekking  holidays  up to 5,000 metres altitude. But 
its policy said there was no cover at all for any trek with an ascent to over 5,000 metres. 
Mr Ms trek included an ascent to over 5,000  metres so it said there  was no cover  under the 
policy  even if his pneumonia had been  contracted  at a lower  altitude. 
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair and came to us. Our investigator thought Aviva had reached a 
fair claims  decision  so she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M strongly  disagreed so the 
complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
Ill explain  my reasons. 
Mr M has made very detailed  submissions.  Ive considered all the evidence  and I will focus 
on the points that I consider are central to this complaint. I need to decide  whether Aviva 
fairly declined Mr Ms claim.
Mr M claimed on his Aviva policy after his claim under the policy  bought through  the airline 
was turned down.  He has explained that he didnt  check the Aviva  policy  before travelling, 
but he reasonably  expected it to cover  him. He doesnt think  Aviva made the policy exclusion 
clear enough. 
Ive looked at the policy. I think its clear  that not all leisure based  activity holidays are 
covered. There is a table  that shows that hiking  and trekking holidays up to 5,000 metres  
altitude are covered, if accompanied  by a qualified guide. But the table also clearly shows  
that there  is no cover at all for any trek with an ascent to over 5,000 metres.  
Mr M doesnt think Aviva made the exclusion clear enough in a 52-page  document. He didnt 
look at the policy before he travelled.  But in any event I think  it was clear in the significant  
policy exclusions that not all activity based holidays were covered. Mr Ms trek wasnt  
covered because it included an ascent to over 5,000 metres.  This is the case  even though 
Ref: DRN07153152his illness  started at an altitude  of lower than 5,000  metres. I dont consider an exclusion for 
trekking over a stated  altitude is unusual in travel  insurance policies. 
I can see Mr M strongly considers  hes been treated unfairly given he had insurance with 
Aviva. But an insurer  is entitled to decide which risks its prepared  to cover. In this case 
Aviva decided not to cover the risk of a hiking or trekking trip with an ascent to over 5,000 
metres. It made that clear in its policy terms. 
Mr M makes the point that the risk of up to 5,000 metres  isnt greatly different from the risk of 
just over 5,000 metres.  Hes also referred  to scams with rescue services operating in the 
country he visited. Theres no suggestion  that Mr Ms rescue  was part of any scam. But 
ultimately Aviva is entitled to make a risk based  decision about  coverage under its policy, 
and where any cut-off  will apply. I consider think Aviva fairly turned  down  his claim. 
Mr M has raised a number of issues about the insurance industry as a whole. I wont 
comment on these issues as my role is to decide  his individual  complaint. 
As our investigator has explained this service isnt an industry  regulator.  For UK based 
financial businesses the regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr M can refer 
his concerns to the FCA but as I understand it the FCA wont  report  back to him on his 
specific complaint. 
For completeness I should say that Mr M is able to reject my decision. If he does  so then its 
not binding either on him or Aviva  and his able to pursue any legal remedies open to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0715315