K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Society  of Lloyds decision to decline  his buildings  insurance claim for 
damage to his driveway. 
background
In March 2018 Mr S noticed that some  paving  slabs on his driveway had started to crack.  
When he investigated why he noticed that water seemed be coming  out of the wall of his 
neighbours property that abutted the driveway.  After further investigation a leak was 
discovered at the rear of his neighbours house.  It was repaired. Mr S noticed that some of 
his driveway slabs had dropped and that there  was also further cracking. He got two quotes 
to relay his driveway   one for just over £8,000 and one just over £10,000. He contacted 
Lloyds to make a claim for accidental damage to his driveway. 
Lloyds sent out its loss adjuster to inspect the damage.  It thought the damage was likely 
historical (that it pre-dated  the leak)  and that, at most, the water leak had only contributed  to 
it. The loss adjuster recommended that a structural engineer attend to inspect in more detail 
and to assist in deciding on liability for Mr Ss claim.
The structural engineer  attended in September 2018. It noted  that there was widespread  
cracking the length of the driveway which it thought was a consequence  of vehicular traffic. It 
felt that the foundations underneath the slab werent  capable  of supporting the traffic  and 
that the main  area of damage wasnt in close proximity to the source  of the leak.  It also 
thought that the damage was too widespread and had no pattern to suggest itd been  
caused by the leak.  
Upon receiving the structural engineers report,  Lloyds declined  Mr Ss claim.  It said the 
damage hadnt been caused by any of the events the policy  provided cover  for. It said it 
thought the damage was the result of wear  and tear which had occurred  over a period of 
time as a consequence  of vehicular traffic. It said it didnt think  the damage was the result of 
the burst water main under Mr Ss neighbours house as evidenced by the style of cracking 
found on the driveway. 
Mr S complained to Lloyds about its decision. He said that if the cracking  was caused by a 
car then why were  the driveways centre  slabs also cracked. He said the leak had flooded 
his driveway and that prior to it doing  so his driveway was in perfect  condition.  He said that 
meant the damage  couldnt have been caused  by wear and tear. 
Lloyds thought about what  Mr S had said but didnt change  its mind. It said the structural 
engineers report  was of great importance when  deciding whether to meet  the claim. It said it 
couldnt disregard it without good  reason. In Mr Ss case, it said the report was unambiguous 
and without any alternative professional opinion as to the cause of damage, it was satisfied 
the right decision had been  reached.  It said it wasnt in dispute that thered been an escape 
of water from his neighbours property just that it wasnt the primary cause of the damage to 
his driveway. Lloyds offered Mr S 25% of the cost of repairing his driveway (based on the 
cheaper of the two quotes hed obtained) as a gesture of goodwill, namely  £2,136.30.  
Unhappy with Lloyds  findings, Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator looked into 
his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. The complaint was passed to me for 
a decision. 
Ref: DRN09491302my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S, Im unable to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why. 
I have to decide whether Lloyds has unreasonably declined  Mr Ss claim.  I dont  think  that it 
has. The only expert evidence about the cause of damage to the driveway is that provided 
by Lloyds structural engineer. Mr S has said he disagrees with the conclusions  the structural  
engineer reached  but he hasnt provided an alternative expert opinion to support what  he 
says. Without that, it wouldnt be reasonable of me to disregard the report  Lloyds  obtained 
and to accept  that its analysis  of the cause  of damage should  be put to one side.  
Not all damage a house  sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy.  Only damage 
caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy will be covered. Mr S says his 
driveway suffered  accidental damage  as a result of a water  main leak inside the boundary of 
his neighbours property.  Lloyds doesnt  agree. 
Lloyds experts accepted  that there had of course  been a leak but they didnt think the 
damage to the driveway had been caused  by it. They  thought the water leak wouldnt have 
caused the pattern of cracking evident.  So Lloyds experts thought  the damage pre-existed 
the water  leak and was the result of wear  and tear from vehicular traffic over time.  In other 
words, Lloyds doesnt think the damage can be said to be accidental.  It also noted  that Mr S 
had continued  to use the drive for two months after the leak and that this may have added to 
the severity of the damage.  Unfortunately this isnt damage caused accidentally  so none of it 
is covered by the policy. 
Lloyds has offered to pay Mr S the sum of £2,136.30 as a gesture of goodwill. It has made 
this offer as a 25% contribution towards  the cost of Mr S replacing his driveway  because  it 
accepts that an escape  of water occurred and that the driveway is damaged. The offer is 
made on the basis that the water leak was not the primary  cause  of the damage so there is 
no liability  under  the policy.  Taking all the evidence into account, I think that this is a fair offer 
for Lloyds  to have  made. So I dont think Lloyds has unreasonably  declined Mr Ss claim 
and Im unable to fairly uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0949130