K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt returned his original  title 
deeds to him following repayment of his mortgage. He is also unhappy that Halifax  didnt 
write to him to confirm his mortgage had ended.
background
Mr L had a mortgage with Halifax which he took in the early  90s. This was repaid in 2018. 
Mr L says he got in touch  with Halifax  as he hadnt received confirmation that the mortgage 
had been repaid and asked for the deeds to be sent to his local branch. When  he received 
the deeds, he said they were incomplete.  So he complained to Halifax.
Halifax said it had sent what it held to him, and that it had written to him in August 2018  to 
confirm his mortgage had been repaid.  Mr L remained unhappy and referred the complaint to 
us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She said she could appreciate  why Mr L 
was upset about not having his title deeds  returned to him, but there was no evidence 
showing what Halifax did or didnt  hold or that anything was missing.  She also explained that 
Mr Ls deeds were now stored  electronically so there was no doubt he was the property 
owner and there had been no financial loss to Mr L. She was satisfied Halifax had written to 
Mr L when his mortgage had ended. She didnt recommend the complaint  be upheld.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator and asked  for his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. So its been passed to me to review  and issue  a final decision. He says he 
expected the original  deeds with a wax seal and penny black stamp  to be returned  to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately due to the passage of time, we dont know  what was contained with Mr Ls 
original deeds.  Halifaxs internal notes  suggest that solicitors acting on behalf  of Mr L have 
requested and been provided with the deeds  on at least two occasions  in 1997 and again  
in 2002. We dont know what was returned by the solicitors. Its possible that Halifax has lost 
part of the deeds, but its also possible that the solicitors have not always returned 
everything to Halifax or that what Mr L believes were contained within  his deeds was never 
there. 
Ultimately, Mr L hasnt  been able to provide  any evidence of what he says is missing. He 
says his neighbour deeds had a penny  black on them which is why he was expecting this. 
However not all deeds  are identical,  and this in itself isnt enough for me to say his deeds 
also had this. Considering all of this, I cant  safely say Halifax has lost part of Mr Ls deeds.
Its also worth noting that now deeds  are held electronically at the Land Registry,  there  is no 
doubting Mr L owns the property. So other than being frustrated by not receiving what  he 
expected, I cant  see Mr L has lost out.
Ref: DRN03690352Mr L has said he was part of the deeds storage scheme Halifax  operated. But Halifax has 
confirmed that this service  was only available for people who had repaid their mortgage in 
full (Mr L didnt do so until 2018) and that this service was withdrawn in 2008.  So I dont think 
its likely  Mr L was ever a part of this scheme.
Halifax has confirmed that it wrote to Mr L to confirm his mortgage  had been redeemed. Its 
possible this wasnt sent, but it mayve  been sent and lost in the post. Either  way, whilst this 
wouldve again caused Mr L frustration, it hasnt put him at any kind of disadvantage and 
Halifax has confirmed his mortgage is fully repaid. And its offered to provide another closing 
statement directly to him. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Overall, whilst I understand Mr L is frustrated that he doesnt have everything he thinks  he 
should, I dont  have enough evidence  to say, on balance, that anything is missing from his 
deeds or if it is that Halifax  is at fault. Nor can I say that Mr L has suffered a loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0369035