K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that when  he claimed  under his mobile phone insurance held with 
Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) for accidental damage poor repairs  were 
carried out to his phone,  and there were delays that caused him inconvenience.
Assurant uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf and all references to Assurant in this 
decision should be read as including anything said or done  on its behalf by those agents.
background
In January 2019 Mr B made an accidental damage  claim for a mobile phone.  Assurant had 
two attempts to fix it but these werent successful. Around seven weeks  later it agreed to 
make a cash settlement.  When Mr B had to return the phone the second time,  Assurant 
didnt send him the pre-paid bag to do this, so Mr B had to arrange  this himself. Assurant 
has offered Mr B £75 compensation.  
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and said Assurant should increase  its offer of 
compensation from £75 to £125.  Assurant disagreed, it explained than Mr B could have 
arranged for his mobile phone to be returned to a different address more convenient for him 
and that some of the delays were also caused by Mr B.
As Assurant  disagreed  with our investigators  opinion this complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with our 
investigator that Assurant  should increase the compensation it has offered to Mr B.
The circumstances of this complaint have  not been disputed  by either side so I have  looked  
at how the actions of Assurant  have affected Mr B.
While I appreciate Mr B has contributed to some of the delay I think it was reasonable for 
Mr B to expect the mobile phone to have  been  either repaired when he first sent it to 
Assurant, or a decision made on whether  or not to make a cash  offer to him. 
Mr B has had to return the mobile  phone twice to Assurant  before having his claim settled. 
He was also told he would receive a returns bag to send his phone  in which he didnt receive 
which caused him further inconvenience, as he had to go to the post office  to arrange this.
When looking at the circumstances  as a whole  it appears Mr Bs claim should have been  
concluded sooner than it was and Assurant is responsible for some of this delay. I dont think 
the £75 offer made by Assurant in recognition of the inconvenience  it caused Mr B is 
enough. I agree with our investigator that Assurant should increase its offer from £75 to 
£125.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN07206332Assurant General Insurance Limited should  pay Mr B £125.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0720633