K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains Virgin Money  plc has withdrawn his promotional interest rate on his credit  
card even though  he was only a few days late with his monthly  payment.
background
Mr O said this was the first time hed been late for a payment. It was due to be paid at the 
end of December  2018 and he paid it at the beginning of January 2019. He didnt know he 
could set up a direct debit  for the minimum  monthly payment. And he hadnt received  all the 
statements since opening  his account. He thought he would  get a text reminder about 
payment. And hes upset  because the bank  didnt take into account  his loyalty as a customer 
and that this happened over the Christmas period when he was away.
Virgin Money said itd withdrawn Mr Os promotional interest rate in line with its terms and 
conditions. And it said the date he had to make payment  was on his monthly  statement. It 
said it doesnt send  text message reminders but may send a message after a payment has 
been missed.
Our investigator didnt  think Virgin Money had done anything  wrong.  He could see itd sent 
Mr O a paper statement on 9 December 2018 so thought he wouldve been aware of the 
payment date and the implications of not making  a payment on time. Mr O said he hadnt 
received this but our investigator explained  this wasnt  the fault of Virgin Money.  He could 
also see that the terms and conditions of Mr Os account had full details about the 
withdrawal of a promotional rate if a minimum payment is not made  by the due date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator  for very similar reasons. And theres very little I can add to 
his opinion.
Mr O has told us he was very busy in the run up to Christmas and over the Christmas period. 
He then went away on 27 December 2018  and didnt return  until 1 January 2019. And during 
this time he didnt have  a mobile phone signal.  So I can see he was juggling a lot of 
commitments during this time and I have  a certain amount of sympathy for him. But Virgin  
Moneys terms and conditions make it clear  that his monthly  minimum payment  has to be 
made on time. Failure to do that means Virgin  Money  will withdraw his promotional  interest  
rate. 
When Mr O opened his credit card account Virgin Money gave him the terms and conditions  
which included information about  his promotional rate of interest. He said he didnt read this 
but I cant find that Virgin Money  is responsible  for him not making himself familiar  with the 
requirements of the promotional  rate.
Virgin Money puts the due date for payment on the monthly statements it sends out. Mr O 
said he didnt receive the one for December 2018.  But I agree with our investigator that 
Virgin Money cant be responsible for any failings of the postal  system.  And it seems  that Mr 
Os payment date on previous statements has always been towards the end of the month. 
So I think he shouldve reasonably known that he needed  to make a payment before he went 
away on holiday particularly as he wasnt due back until the beginning of January 2019.
Ref: DRN02093252Mr O says he thought Virgin Money  would send him a reminder  by text for him to make his 
monthly payment.  Virgin Money says it doesnt  do this. And Mr O hasnt said it did this for 
any of his previous  payments. So I dont think it was reasonable for him to expect it this time.
I can understand why Mr O wants Virgin Money to overlook his missed payment as he says 
this is the first time its happened  and hes a loyal customer. But I cant fairly  make it do that 
when its acted in line with its terms and conditions.
So although  I know Mr O will be upset  with my decision I cant fairly  find Virgin Money  has 
done anything  wrong.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0209325