K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. The policy covered Mr B only. Mr and Mrs B say Principality Building  Society  mis-sold 
them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
I can see Mr and Mrs B took out PPI in 1995. Mr and Mrs B have also mentioned other 
dates, and I can see they took out further  borrowing  or advances on their mortgage on 
several occasions from 1995 to 2012. But I havent  seen  clear evidence that any further  PPI 
was taken out after the sale in 1995,  so I havent considered these dates  any further.
When selling  the PPI, Principality Building  Society  had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that 
they had a choice about it. But Mr and Mrs B say they werent made aware  PPI had been  
added to their mortgage and never  willingly took out any PPI.
Principality Building  Society has sent us a copy of a PPI application form from 1995, signed  
by Mr M. Its also told us Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  started in 1993.  So Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage had been running  for more  than two years when the PPI was sold,  and so I dont 
think they can reasonably have  thought they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage.
The PPI application  form shows Mr and Mrs Ms monthly mortgage repayment and the 
benefit amount  they wanted  from the PPI. It also shows  a series of questions  about Mr Ms 
eligibility for the PPI have  been answered.  And it included a direct debit mandate  to pay for 
the PPI, signed  by Mr and Mrs M. So I think its likely there was some discussion about  the 
PPI between Mr and Mrs M and Principality Building Society  and that Mr and Mrs M 
understood there was a separate cost to the PPI.
Based on all the evidence I have, I think  Principality Building Society made it clear to Mr and 
Mrs M that they had a choice about  the PPI, and that Mr and Mrs M chose to take it knowing 
they didnt have to.
Principality Building  Society didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt  have to 
check if it was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information  
they needed to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Principality Building Society gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances 
at the time it, doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover.  So it would  have been  useful for Mr and Mrs M if something went  wrong.
Mr and Mrs M have  said Mr M was entitled  to sick pay from his employer. But the PPI 
couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs M have  told us Mr M wouldve been entitled  to 
Ref: DRN08388812sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on their family  or any savings or 
other means  they had to make  their repayments  if Mr M wasnt earning. So I still think the 
PPI would have  been useful for Mr and Mrs M if something went  wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and 
Mrs M off taking  it out.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their PPI  and whether 
Principality Building  Society treated them unfairly.
Principality Building  Society has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was 
less than half of what they paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Principality Building 
Society has been working this out and based  on what weve seen it looks  like its right  Mr 
and Mrs Ms commission  was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats  the case, I dont 
think it needed to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  Principality Building 
Society treated  them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs M back any of 
the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0838881