K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in June 2002.  Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B has used  a claims management  company (CMC)  to bring his complaint to this 
service. The CMC says that Mr B was told hed have to take PPI as he was self-employed. 
Mr Bs CMC  also said that Mr B was unaware that PPI had been added to his credit  card.  As 
these two points  are contradictory,  Ive considered what I think its most likely Mr B wouldve 
seen and been told at the time he took the credit  card.
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this. The credit  card 
agreement  which weve shown to Mr Bs CMC   shows that Mr B needed to tick a box to 
accept PPI. The box has been ticked, and Mr B has signed the form. But if Mr B didnt want, 
or know about the PPI, Id have expected him to leave the box empty, or not sign the 
application form at all.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Although Mr Bs CMC has said Mr B wouldve 
found it difficult to claim as he was self-employed, I dont  agree. I dont find the terms of Mr 
Bs particular  policy any more onerous  than the terms  that wouldve applied  to someone who 
was employed as opposed to self-employed.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And as Mr B wouldnt have received sick pay if he couldnt work, and didnt have any 
savings, it seems like it wouldve been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr B and his CMC have said. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Although Bank of Scotland doesnt  need  to refund everything Mr B paid for it, Bank of 
Scotland has already offered to give Mr B back some of the cost of the PPI. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN05505452my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0550545