K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from esure Insurance  Limited  following  a claim 
he made on his motor insurance  policy. 
background
Mr Ss car was stolen  and later recovered by the police. The car had been  damaged  and 
was booked into a garage in September  2018. Mr S is unhappy with the way his claim has 
been handled, the customer  service  and a lengthy delay in the roof of the car being repaired.  
esure looked into Mr Ss complaint and upheld  it. They acknowledged  there  had been delays 
and that their customer service could  have been better. They  agreed  to waive  the policy 
excess of £350  and offered £50 as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Mr S didnt think this reflected the poor experience hed had. Mr S was without his car for a 
number of months and he explained this had an impact on being able to spend  time with his 
son. The car was returned in April 2019, after around 8 months in the garage.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She concluded there  had been delays and 
that the customer service  had fallen below the standard wed expect. So she recommended  
esure increase the compensation to a total of £500.
Mr S didnt think this adequately reflected  the time he was without his car and the 
inconvenience caused. esure  thought their original offer was fair but didnt provide any new 
information or comments. As it wasnt possible to resolve the complaint our investigator 
referred it to an ombudsman to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has raised a separate complaint in relation to damage to the windscreen and his 
courtesy car being  withdrawn.  Im also aware  that Mr S is unhappy with the service he 
received when the car was returned.  For clarity, Im not addressing those issues in this 
decision as they relate  to separate  complaints.  
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say esure  has a responsibility  to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  Its not in dispute there were delays in handling the claim. And esure  has 
also accepted  there  were  failings in the customer service they provided. 
I think Mr S ought to be compensated for the trouble and upset he experienced as a result  of 
these issues and its fair to increase the compensation  to a total of £500  to reflect these 
failings. I say that because:
Ref: DRN05532532Mr S frequently had to chase for updates and I think esure  couldve kept him better 
updated about what was happening  with the repairs and the claim.  This was 
particularly worrying for Mr S as it wasnt clear  at one point whether the car was 
going to be written off. And when Mr S raised concerns about the level of service he 
didnt receive prompt  responses. So there  were  a number  of failings in the customer  
service he received;
There were  also opportunities  to progress the claim  which were missed.  For 
example, parts  werent  ordered  at the earliest  opportunity and esure didnt always  
proactively chase up the repairs  at reasonable intervals. This meant that the claim 
wasnt resolved as quickly as it couldve been;
I appreciate Mr S feels £500 doesnt  adequately reflect the hassle hes been  caused. 
But Mr S did have  a hire car for much  of the time the car was in the garage. I 
appreciate Mr S wanted a car that was the same as his and this had an impact on 
arrangements with his son. However, the policy documentation confirms  the courtesy  
car will be a small  car and gives examples of the types  of car which  will be offered. 
Whilst I can understand this was frustrating for Mr S, this was what he was entitled to 
under the relevant policy terms and conditions.  As Ive outlined  above Im aware  Mr S 
has made a complaint  about the withdrawal of the hire car but thats not something  
Im addressing within this decision.   
putting things right
I understand esure has waived the excess and paid a further £50 to Mr S. If this hasnt  been  
paid esure  should pay this to Mr S together with an additional £100, bringing  the total 
amount of compensation to £500. This is to reflect the trouble and upset caused by delays in 
claims handling and poor customer service.  
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint against esure Insurance Limited and direct them to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision before 29 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0553253