K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss M took out a loan with Nationwide in 2003. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered  the repayments  on her loan for up to 12 months at a time if she was 
made redundant, or for as long as she was off work if she was sick.
The cost of the policy was added to the loan and she paid interest  on it.
Miss M says the policy was added without her consent and she didnt want  or need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Ms complaint  should be upheld. Miss M disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Miss M applied for her loan over the phone. Miss M says the PPI it was added without her 
consent. She also says that she specifically told Nationwide she didnt need  PPI as she had 
good sick pay.
Theres no recording of the sales call, which doesnt surprise me given  16 years has passed 
since then. So I dont  know  for sure what was said about  the PPI during the call. But 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the sales process that was in use at the time.  I think its 
likely this process was followed. From  this I can see that Miss M wouldve been  given quotes 
for the loan both with and without PPI, demonstrating that the policy was optional.  This was 
followed up with a credit  agreement sent to Miss M in the post. 
The credit agreement makes it clear that the PPI is optional. If Miss M hadnt agreed to buy it 
I think shed have queried it when she saw it on the credit agreement,  especially  as she says 
she actively rejected it. Miss M signed the credit agreement and returned  it.
So, on balance, on the limited information  I have  available  to me, I think  its most likely Miss 
M agreed to buy the PPI knowing she had a choice  about it.
Nationwide didnt give Miss M a personal recommendation to buy the PPI, so it didnt have to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for her. But it did need to give Miss M 
enough information so she could make  her own decision. 
I cant know exactly what information  Nationwide gave  Miss M in that phone  call over 16 
years ago. The call process  document indicates  that Miss M wouldve been told about the 
Ref: DRN06320982general terms and exclusions.  Even if this didnt happen, I dont think better information 
wouldve changed Miss Ms mind about buying  the PPI. I say this because:
Miss M was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected by any terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to self-employment or existing medical  conditions;
Miss M hasnt been very clear about  her employment circumstances at the time of 
sale, but I think its likely she was entitled to some contractual  sick pay. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to the entire outstanding length of the 
loan if necessary. So I think it offered a useful benefit, especially when Miss Ms full 
sick pay wouldve reduced;
Miss M may have  been entitled to some redundancy pay, but again,  the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this, leaving  Miss M to use her settlement for other 
uninsured expenses she wouldve had; 
The cost of the policy was clearly disclosed,  including the interest  payable  on it, so I 
think Miss M wouldve  understood what she was paying for it;
If Miss M had wanted to cancel the policy  or pay off the loan early she wouldve 
received a proportionate  refund of the unused  premiums.
So I dont  think Miss M lost out as a result  of anything  Nationwide mightve done wrong. This 
means Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint so it follows that Nationwide  Building  Society doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0632098