K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019 and it included the following:
Mrs T took out the PPI in-store  alongside a loan. The PPI protected her monthly 
repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, I dont intend  to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld because  Mrs T says she had a pre-
existing medical condition, which the PPI wouldnt have  allowed her to claim for. The 
adjudicator believed Mrs T wouldnt have bought the PPI had she known  this.
When the adjudicator  put all of this to FICL as reason  to uphold the complaint, it disagreed. It 
responded by raising a number of questions it felt should be answered to allow  a better  
understanding of her condition and of how it might  have  factored into her thinking  during the 
sale. For example, FICL wanted to know whether Mrs Ts condition  was ongoing and 
whether it affected  her ability  to work.
At my request, one of our adjudicators put these questions to Mrs T. She didnt reply. 
Without clarification from Mrs T, it seems to me that her condition was controlled and so 
wasnt likely to have caused her any time off work.  This is further supported  by the fact that 
she didnt mention the condition when she brought her complaint to us as it wasnt  
considered to be a medical condition. Overall, I dont  think the condition  would have been a 
significant factor for her in buying the PPI. 
My current  views that I dont have enough information to show  that Mrs Ts medical 
condition would have  affected the sale or that it would  have  put her off taking out the PPI. 
That being  the case, I cant fairly say that the PPI was mis-sold on these grounds.     
Ive looked at how the remainder of the sale was carried out overall but havent seen 
anything else that would  lead me to believe the PPI was mis-sold to Mrs T. For example,  Ive 
seen clear evidence  to show she was given a choice about taking PPI and that she decided  
to go ahead with it by ticking and signing the credit agreement in the relevant place. And, 
from what I know about her circumstances in 2001:
Ref: DRN08375842Mrs T was eligible  for the cover. And she wasnt affected by any of the other 
exclusions to, or limits  on, the PPI. 
Mrs T seems to have had a need  for the cover  she had some work benefits she 
could have relied on if she wasnt working due to disability or unemployment. On the 
other hand, the PPI benefits  could  potentially have  paid out for longer, at up to 12 
months per claim. I dont think the relatively small amount of savings she held meant  
shed have found the PPI any less useful.
I can also see that the cost of the PPI  £1.51  a month   was clearly  set out in the credit 
agreement Mrs T signed. And the policy was flexible in that she could have cancelled it any 
time if she decided she no longer wanted  it.
 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mrs Ts lost out because of how FICL sold her 
the PPI.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. FICL  didnt  respond to my provisional decision.  
Mrs T provided more information  about  her health. Essentially, she said she was diagnosed 
with asthma in the late 1970s and took medication on a daily basis  to keep it under control.
Mrs T added she had two operations for another medical condition  the first was eight to ten 
years ago and the second was around  six years ago. She was off work  for a couple of weeks  
after each operation and takes  medication for the condition to this day.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Im grateful  to Mrs T for providing more information  about her health.  This has enabled me to 
undertake an even more thorough assessment of her complaint. That said,  the information 
doesnt lead me to alter the conclusions  I reached  in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Taking the condition  that led to Mrs Ts operations first, I note these didnt initially affect her 
until around eight  years after the sale took place at the earliest. As such, I dont think this 
would have been a consideration for her when she bought the policy.
Regarding Mrs Ts asthma,  Ive thought very carefully about whether this would have 
affected her decision to buy the PPI but I dont  think it would have.  It seems  the condition 
had long since been diagnosed and was likely under control due to appropriate treatment. 
Theres no suggestion it had led to time off work  prior to, or around the time of, the sale. 
Overall, the evidence doesnt indicate to me that, in 2001, the condition was so significant 
that it would  have been a major factor in the sale.
Ref: DRN08375843Taking everything into consideration, I still dont think Mrs Ts lost out because  of how FICL 
sold her the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.  
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0837584