K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the valuation Covea Insurance  plc put on his car under his motor 
insurance policy after it was stolen. He wants it to offer him enough  to buy a like car from a 
reputable dealer. 
background
After Mr Ps car was stolen, Covea offered him £31,385 in settlement of his claim. But Mr P 
thought this didnt take into account  his cars extras. He said he couldnt replace his car with 
one with a similar specification for this amount. He found examples of cars similar to his own 
for sale at around £37,000. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Coveas  
valuation was made according  to our approach. He found that the optional  extras  didnt 
increase the cars value. He thought Covea had used  a lower mileage to assess the cars 
value. It valuation was within  the range provided by the four motor trade guides we use, so 
he thought it was fair and reasonable. 
Mr P replied  that he wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P wants the best possible offer in settlement for the loss of his car. I 
can see that he doesnt agree with our approach to this, but we consider that its an 
approach thats  fair to all parties.  
The adjudicator has explained this services  approach to car valuations.  We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
The adjudicator thought  Coveas settlement  offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked 
how he came to this conclusion. Mr Ps policy provides for the cars market value in the case  
of its total loss. I can see that the adjudicator checked the four specialist motor trade guides 
we use for cars of the same make, model, condition, and optional  extras  as Mr Ps at the 
date of its loss. Covea had used a lower mileage than was recorded for the car a month 
before the theft, so he too used the lower  mileage. I think that if the correct  mileage  had 
been used a lower  valuation  would  have been  found. 
Mr P said he found higher  valuations in guides hed checked, but these are consumer guides  
and not the specialist guides we use. Mr P thought the extras  added  to his car should 
increase its value. But I can see that the adjudicator added these extras  when seeking  
valuations. 
Ref: DRN03543822Mr P offered  to provide  depreciated  values  for his options, but this isnt our approach  except 
in exceptional  circumstances such as where  the guides dont provide valuations for a car at 
all. I can see that the guides didnt provide any depreciated values  for the cars  optional 
extras. So I think they were reasonably  taken  into account. 
The valuations the adjudicator found  ranged between £30,500 and £33,600, with an average 
of £31,912. This took into account the optional extras which  didnt increase the value. Covea 
had offered £31,385. This is within the range  of the guides valuations,  so I think  thats  fair 
and reasonable.
Mr P said hed seen similar cars advertised  for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive  as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.  
So I think Coveas valuation of Mr Ps car was made  correctly according to our approach, 
albeit with a lower mileage which would likely increase the valuation.  So I think its fair and 
reasonable and I dont  require Covea to increase its offer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0354382