K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wont  honour a part 
exchange agreement  on his car. He would like the difference between what  he achieved  with 
a private sale and what BMWFS offered refunded  (£700). And compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience
background
Mr H says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with BMWFS on 29 October 2018. He 
says at the time he was arranging the agreement he made  it clear  he had to sell his current  
car to finance the new agreement. 
He says whilst he was sorting this out he was abroad. And that he was told if he didnt go 
ahead with the agreement he might not get a similar offer. He says BMWFS  offered him a 
part exchange offer on his car of initially £9,800 but then of £10,000.
He says he was told he could have the £10,000 as a reserve  price  in case  whilst  he looked 
at a private sale. He says on that basis he went ahead with the purchase.
On his return from abroad he started  the process to sell his car. But then realised  he 
wouldnt be able to achieve a sale quickly and so asked BMWFS  to honour its reserve  price  
of £10,000. But it wouldnt do so saying the offer was no longer valid.
Mr H says he then sold his car privately but only for £9,300.
BMWFS said the original  offer of £10,000  would have been based  on a number of factors  
such as the age, mileage  and condition of the car which  may have changed  on Mr Hs return  
from abroad. It also said it had no evidence that the offer was an indefinite  one.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-Mr H took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with BMWFS and requested a part 
exchange quote for his current car.
-On 18 October 2018 Mr H got an email from BMWFS offering £10,000  in part 
exchange. This email  also stated  you are more than welcome to sell your car and 
have a reserved  price from us if that would suit you better
-There was  no reference,  in the email  exchange, that the part exchange offer,  
reserve or otherwise,  would have to be taken up before the finance agreement was 
signed
-When Mr H tried to take up this offer on November 6 2018 BMWFS said it was no 
longer available as the finance agreement had since been signed.
-It might be logical to think that any offer made during the negotiations over a finance 
agreement would  either be taken up before the finance agreement was signed and 
Ref: DRN02077792therefore form part of the agreement. Or not be taken up prior to the agreement  and 
therefore no longer  be valid.  
-In the email exchange with BMWFS Mr H made it clear that he had to sell his current 
car in order to finance the new one. That was consistent with what  he told us. So I 
thought the part exchange offer formed  part of the negotiations  and finance  
agreement. 
-It was never made clear to Mr H that the part exchange offer was for a set time only.
-It wouldnt be reasonable to expect the part exchange offer to be available  
indefinitely. But I thought Mr H was led to believe he had agreed a reserve price in 
principle if he couldnt sell his car privately. And that was the basis on which  he 
agreed to the Hire Purchase Agreement.
-Mr H signed his contract on 29 October  2018. He then emailed about taking up the 
part exchange offer only days later on 6 November 2018. Given  he  told  us he was 
abroad during  part of the time he was sorting  out getting his new car I didnt  find  the 
short delay in him looking into a private  sale unreasonable.
-I was unpersuaded  by BMWFSs  point  that the offer of £10,000 would have been 
based on the age, mileage and current condition of the car and market  indications 
and that these factors would have changed  between making the offer on 18 October 
2018 and Mr H asking  to take up the offer on 6 November 2018  
-It was reasonable  for BMWFS to refund the difference between what Mr H achieved  
as a private sale and the £10,000  BMWFS offered subject to Mr H providing proof of 
the sale figure. And for this sum to have 8% simple interest  added to it.
-It wasnt reasonable to expect  BMWFS  to compensate Mr H for stress and 
inconvenience .I felt there  was always  a degree of inconvenience  in making a 
complaint. But we dont always make these awards  for this.  
-Where we agree with a complaint we aim, where we can, to put consumers back  in 
the position they would  have  been in had the complaint not arisen.  In refunding  the 
£700 loss Mr H suffered,  and with the addition  of interest to compensate him for not 
having use of this money I felt Mr H would then be back where he would have been 
had the part exchange  offer been honoured.
-I wasnt aware that Mr H has suffered any other  loss or detriment that would  lead me 
to conclude that an additional sum as compensation would be reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr H and BMWFS  have responded to my provisional decision.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision and made  no further comments  for me to take into 
account for my final decision.
Ref: DRN02077793BMWFS said it was unaware  Mr H hadnt  agreed to our adjudicators  view.  It felt it was 
unreasonable more than a year after this view had been given to now be expected to make a 
payment in relation to a part exchange  for a car that took place in 2018.
Notwithstanding that BMWFS said it would pay the £700 I stated in my provisional  decision. 
But asked that interest  not be added to this sum as it had no way to measure the cost of the 
car that was sold some  time ago. It also noted that it was unlikely that Mr H had kept a 
record of the mileage to be able to ascertain the cars value.
I am sorry  that BMWFS didnt receive notification of Mr H not accepting  our adjudicators 
view. I can see from our records that the adjudicator  emailed BMWFs on17 May 2019  to 
advise them of this. So I dont know why it didnt receive this communication.
I do appreciate that some  considerable time has passed from Mr H rejecting the 
adjudicators view to my provisional decision being  issued. Thats unfortunate but due to the 
volume of cases it can take some  time for decisions to be issued.
I appreciate that BMWFS has agreed  to refund the £700 loss Mr H suffered as a result of not 
being able to take up the part exchange offer.
I have considered BMWFSs points about the 8% interest I added to this sum in my 
provisional decision but I am not persuaded by them. 
I am not sure of the value  of knowing the mileage  on the car when Mr H sold it. Or of being 
able to measure  the value  of the car when it was sold. And why this information  would  
impact on the interest payment. The car isnt to be sold now.  Its been  sold . So the only 
relevant figure is the sale price Mr H achieved.
Mr H will need,  as I put in my provisional decision,  to provide proof of the £9,300  sale price 
he achieved. The addition of interest is to reflect the fact that Mr H hasnt had the use of that 
money. I think  its still fair that interest is added.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited should, on proof of the sale 
price of Mr Hs car (£9,300), refund Mr H £700  with 8% simple  interest  added  to this sum.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0207779