K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did as follows:
Informed him, in June  2009, that he had to move his pension from ReAssure to a 
Standard Life Self Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) because the former was a 
zombie fund that was due for closure;  he says he agreed to do this on the condition 
that the transfer included  his NPI pension.
Barclays transferred only nine of the 10 segments in the ReAssure pension  
omitting the 10th segment which held his NPI pension.
He subsequently learnt that there was no real requirement for him to transfer his 
pension, that suitability of the transfer (and SIPP) had not been properly assessed 
(including erroneous  information that Barclays appeared to have  based  its 
assessment on) and that Standard Life was a firm that became associated  with 
Barclays shortly  after the transfer; he is concerned about these issues;  he is also 
concerned that fees related to the transfer were not properly disclosed; he is 
unhappy that the 10th segment of the pension was omitted; he is also unhappy about 
how Barclays mismanaged his complaint (over the course of two years)  and its 
ongoing delay  in providing him with a final settlement statement after he cashed in 
the SIPP in 2017.
background
In terms of the erroneous  information issue, Mr B highlights the following:
His income was around  £3,600 per month at the time, not £5,500 per month as 
Barclays stated.
Barclays stated that he had no mortgage  commitment, yet he had an outstanding 
mortgage of £210,000.
He had five dependent children which Barclays did not mention or consider.
The pension was what he expected to be his main  source  of income  after the age of 
65; he a few small mortgaged flats but they would have produced only a relatively 
small income.
Barclays position on the complaint is mainly as follows:
It acknowledges that its response to the complaint was delayed,  it apologised to Mr B 
for this and offered him £150 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
It considers that the SIPP (and the discretionary investment management  service  
within it) was suitable for Mr Bs profile  at the time; that profile  being   51 years of 
age; divorced; ownership of a residence worth £2 million without a mortgage; in 
receipt of net employment earnings  of £3,000  per month; in receipt  of net property 
portfolio income  of £30,000 per year, leading  to a total net income of £5,500  per 
month; in possession of a personal  pension worth £75,000 into which he contributed  
£183 (gross) per month; use of a speculative attitude to risk (ATR)  towards the 
SIPP; dissatisfaction, at the time, with his previous  pensions  performance (over the 
preceding 20 years); and a desire/objective to undertake more risk in order to 
generate better returns. The SIPP matched this profile, the transfer to it was 
recommended for that reason, the recommendation was accepted  by Mr B and he 
chose to increase  his contributions to £250 (gross) per month. 
It could not find evidence that Mr B was told he had to conduct the transfer,  it was his 
choice, but it is true that ReAssure was a closed book  company to which  Barclays 
Ref: DRN02276862pension funds were  sold in 2008, after those  funds were closed to new business in 
2001.
Between the suitability letter and SIPP illustration documents  both sent to Mr B at 
the time of advice   there was full disclosure to him of all relevant fees, charges, 
transfer-out penalties and of the effect of costs deductions on the funds projected 
value. In addition,  no performance guarantee was given  for the SIPP.
The 10th segment that was omitted  from the transfer resulted from Barclays  
oversight; but it performed very well; it was valued at around £8,200 in 2009  and then 
valued at around £17,500  in 2018  when  it was surrendered (at the net value of 
around £13,200);  Barclays  does  not consider there is a complaint issue  in this 
respect.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and reached the following main  
conclusions:
The complaint  should not be upheld.
Available evidence  does not support Mr Bs claim that Barclays told him he had to 
conduct the transfer, instead evidence in the suitability letter sent to him says he 
sought better returns in his pension.
The SIPP application  form Mr B signed in June  2009 confirmed 3% funded  initial 
commission to his adviser and 25% commission on the first years  expected returns; 
and the SIPP illustration document confirmed a fund management  charge of 0.95% 
and further information about commission payments associated with the SIPP; 
overall the fees and charges associated with the transfer were  disclosed to Mr B 
before the transfer took place.
Barclays does not appear to have done anything wrong in recommending a SIPP 
provider that it had a connection  with, given that it declared in its advice that its 
recommendation was limited to preferred providers  so that should have informed 
Mr B that it was not a whole-of-market based  recommendation.
The 10th segment, which was omitted from the transfer, outperformed  the nine 
segments which were transferred, so Mr B does not appear to have suffered a loss 
from Barclays oversight in this respect. In addition, he was not charged  for the 
transfer of this segment (as it was not transferred).
Mr B was sent a closing statement for the SIPP in March 2017.  He has complained  
that it lacked tax calculations, but such calculations were not Barclays  responsibility.
Despite the differences between Mr Bs account  of his profile in 2009  and Barclays 
record of that profile (as compiled in a Fact Find document), overall and on balance it 
appears  based on the suitability letter and Fact Find document  that the transfer to 
the SIPP matched  his objective to have  a more hands on approach  with the pension  
fund, aided by discretionary fund management, and to pursue  the potential  for better 
performance; the £250 per month contributions were, based  on his description of his 
financial profile, affordable for him; at a value of £70,000 the SIPP was unlikely to be 
his main source of retirement income; and he had an overall financial capacity, even 
as he has described it, for loss in the SIPP. A completed ATR questionnaire 
confirmed his readiness to undertake higher/speculative risks at the time and the 
Fact Find document depicts him as an experienced investor. Overall, the transfer  and 
SIPP were suitable for Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome.  
He referred to his email of 16 December 2009  in which  he queried and was 
dissatisfied with the fact that the transfer had led to initial commission  he said he had 
Ref: DRN02276863not approved;  in which he argued that such commission  could not be justified given 
that the transfer was Barclays idea (and requirement) and because,  with the 
exception of the NPI pension, it was from one Barclays fund to another;  and in which  
he said he could understand paying  a transfer or management fee for the NPI 
pension but that had not been transferred. He said this is evidence  that he was 
expecting to see a proposed figure  for the transfer  and that any fee was chargeable 
for the transfer  of all 10 segment;  as the NPI pension was not transferred Barclays 
did not earn the fee.
He repeated reference to the inaccurate  personal profile information,  about him, 
recorded by Barclays  at the time and considered them  falsely recorded.
He questioned why the investigator had not addressed Barclays delay of two years  
in treating his complaint.
He asserted that Barclays  transfer  recommendation was biased  which was known 
to Barclays but unknown to him  and that it took advantage  of the situation at his 
financial cost.
Overall, Barclays  committed  a breach  of contract; to compensate him it should return  
the fees deducted and it should  make  good the losses incurred in the SIPP after the 
transfer.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He noted that complaint handling 
was/is not a regulated activity; that, even on the basis of the profile Mr B has presented, the 
SIPP was not unsuitable for him; and that it was not unreasonable to charge for Barclays 
advice and the transfer of the segments that were transferred  in other words, it was not 
unreasonable for Barclays to charge for the work  it did. The matter was referred  to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Transfer and Suitability of the SIPP
This service has been provided with a copy of a letter from Barclays to Mr B dated 3 June 
2009. The letter appears to be accurately addressed and I have not seen evidence that Mr B 
did not receive it. Within  it, reference  is made  to enclosures of the suitability report  for the 
transfer and the Fact Find document. The letter also invited him to contact Barclays  if any 
information in the documents was incorrect or if he had any queries. I have not seen  
evidence of such contact,  so the implication  appears  to be that he accepted those 
documents at the time.
I appreciate that Mr B presently disputes  the profile related information from these 
documents, but in the absence of evidence that he raised such  a dispute  at the time he 
received them I consider  it reasonable for Barclays to have relied  upon  the relevant 
information. It is also reasonable to now take a view on Barclays  assessment of suitability 
on the basis of the same  information. 
I do not suggest a pretence  that any factually incorrect personal information in 2009 was 
correct. However, I consider it fair and reasonable that Barclays  assessment  of the 
suitability of the transfer and the SIPP should be addressed on the information it and Mr B 
agreed upon. Available evidence is that they agreed upon the information captured in the 
suitability report and the Fact Find.  
Ref: DRN02276864An initial observation is the absence of any record that the transfer  initiated  from a 
requirement by Barclays  or by communication from it to Mr B that his pension  had to be 
transferred. I have also not found  evidence elsewhere to support  Mr Bs claim in this respect. 
To the contrary  and in support of Barclays account of events  the initiative behind the 
transfer appears to have  belonged to Mr B.
The Fact Find document includes record of a discussion between Barclays and Mr B the 
year before the transfer.  The record notes that, in August 2008, both sides  discussed Mr Bs 
pension arrangements and his displeasure about his pension not increasing in value over 
the preceding  15 years;  and that they discussed the merits of a SIPP based arrangement,  of 
the flexibility within that and of active fund management within  that. This discussion appears  
to have developed into the fact-finding meeting that took place in 2009. The rest of the Fact 
Find document (related  to 2009) reflects the same  broad theme about Mr B being unhappy 
with his pensions  performance and seeking  a change for the prospect of better  
performance. The same applies  to the suitability report.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that the transfer was initiated by Barclays telling 
Mr B it had to be done, instead evidence suggests it was initiated by Mr Bs dissatisfaction  
with his existing  pension between 2008  and 2009, and his desire for an alternative with the 
prospects of active management  and better  performance. This defined his objective for the 
transfer and for the SIPP.
Another observation   which the investigator  noted  is that the limited and preferential 
nature of Barclays advice  was declared  to Mr B at the outset within  the suitability report. 
Notice was given in the first two pages  of the report, under the heading Limitations of 
advice, that recommendations will be limited to Barclays preferred pension providers and 
funds and that he could have other alternatives  that the advice will not cover.  With this 
evidence, I do not accept the claim  (or suggestion)  that he was unknowingly misled  into an 
arrangement with Standard Life that was preferential to Barclays   this cannot  reasonably  be 
the conclusion  to reach, given the notice  he had that such an arrangement  was essentially to 
be expected.
Based on the Fact Find document,  the pension was worth around £75,000 (wider evidence  
suggests its transfer value around £70,000). The suitability report referred  to this value as a 
relatively small amount  of money in comparison  to Mr Bs wider  wealth and wider financial 
arrangements  which was described as including a considerably sized property portfolio of 
commercial, retail and privately  owned  properties; a family trust;  shareholdings; and onshore 
and offshore special  purpose investment vehicles  the report recorded these but also noted 
that Mr B did not wish to disclose details of his wider  assets in the course of the suitability 
assessment. As the investigator said, available evidence  does  not suggest that the pension 
 especially  given its size  was to be his main source of retirement income.  
The Fact Find document also included information  about Mr Bs earnings and net disposable  
income. I appreciate  these are in dispute, but as I said above this appears  to be the 
information agreed in 2009 for Barclays to rely upon  so it can be considered in this context. 
£18,000 is recorded as his net disposable  income and £400 per month  is recorded as what  
he could afford to meet his SIPP objective. No new lump sum capital was made available, or 
required, for the venture.
Based on the suitability  report, Mr B agreed to a high risk/speculative approach  for the SIPP 
in order to pursue  the increased  performance  he sought; a preferred discretionary fund 
Ref: DRN02276865manager (and investment management service) was recommended  for this purpose (and for 
his active management  objective); the SIPP was recommended on the basis  of the previous 
pensions transfer  value and it was recommended that Mr Bs contributions should be £200 
per month (where they were previously £183 per month)  it would appear that Mr B 
thereafter increased this to £250  per month;  the SIPP was also recommended to meet  the 
flexibility and diversification  he sought;  Standard Life was the preferred provider 
recommended to Mr B, based on Barclays view on the quality of its service and competitive 
charges; however, notice was given about  higher charges in comparison to the previous 
pension, of a transfer penalty of £937.40,  and that performance of the SIPP could not be 
guaranteed; nevertheless, Barclays rested its recommendation on the view that, overall, the 
transfer and SIPP should provide the improved  growth and returns,  active  management and 
flexibility that Mr B sought over the 13 years  term/horizon he was considering.
The matter  of affordability was limited  to the monthly contributions. As I said above,  no new 
capital lump sum was required for or invested  in the SIPP  the transfer value of the 
previous pension served as the capital  lump sum. Barclays recommendation was only £17 a 
month more than Mr B previously paid  he paid £183 per month for the previous  pension 
and Barclays recommended £200  per month  for the SIPP. Based on the Fact Find 
document, he had capacity to pay £400 per month, so the recommendation of £200  per 
month was a suitable one and the payment  of £250 per month which  happened  in practice 
was also suitable.  Even  if the Fact Find document is to be disregarded in this respect, I have 
not seen evidence within the financial circumstances presently described  by Mr B which  
suggests he could  not afford an additional  £17 per month for the SIPP contributions   or that 
he could not afford the £250 per month  he paid.
I am satisfied with evidence that Mr B agreed  to use a high risk/speculative approach for the 
SIPP  given the widely recognised risk and reward correlation in investments and given his 
pursuit for higher performance and growth. I am also satisfied, on balance, that the suitability 
report is reliable in its reference to Mr Bs wider wealth and financial arrangements being 
significant enough to make the SIPPs value relatively small. In isolation, the SIPP with a 
value of £70,000 appears unlikely to have been  his planned primary source of retirement 
income. I appreciate  that he disputes Barclays record of his assets,  but I am not convinced 
that it is a meaningful dispute. The report and Fact Find document expressly confirm that he 
withheld details of his assets at the time, so even though Mr B disagrees  with the description 
of his assets, there does not appear to be any recorded details to dispute. Nevertheless, on 
the balance of probabilities and with available evidence I consider that Mr B had the financial  
capacity for the SIPP and for loss within the SIPP.
Overall, on balance and with reference to the documents from 2009  (and Mr Bs present 
corrections of those  documents) I am satisfied that the transfer and the SIPP were not 
unsuitable for him. 
Fees and Charges
I echo the investigators  findings in this respect.  As stated  above, the suitability  report  
warned Mr B about higher  fees in the SIPP and about the transfer penalty. The SIPP 
application form he completed included information about the charges that the investigator 
mentioned. The SIPP illustration document prepared for and provided  to him did what  such 
documents usually  do  it gave him a reasonably  comprehensive picture of what he could 
expect, including  performance assumptions, from the SIPP.  This included  reasonably  
detailed information  about charges associated with the SIPP  and how their deductions could 
affect returns from it.
Ref: DRN02276866I have not seen evidence of fees or charges  incurred by Mr B which were not as described  in 
the body of information (about fees and charges) that appears to have been available  to him 
before the transfer.
The NPI Pension
Barclays was wrong  to have omitted  this from the transfer and it accepts this was an 
oversight on its part. I have not seen evidence that Mr B was charged for a transfer  that did 
not happen in this respect, so that does not appear to be an issue.  As I have found above, 
the SIPP was not unsuitable for Mr B, so it will be the relevant benchmark to use in order  to 
consider whether (or not) Mr B would have been  better off, but for Barclays  oversight in 
omitting the NPI pension from the transfer  to the SIPP. Available evidence  is that the NPI 
Pension performed  better than the SIPP, so there does not appear to be a basis  for 
compensation (for financial loss) arising from Barclays  error  in missing it out. In terms of the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr B by this error, I consider that reasonably covered within  the 
offer Barclays made to him.
Closing Statement
Mr B gave instructions  to cash  in the SIPP in February 2017.  Like the investigator, I too have 
seen a closing  statement  (up to March 2017) for the SIPP. I have also seen his letter to 
Barclays dated 6 June 2017,  in which he asks for a  final settlement showing tax 
computation . The letter confirms his receipt of sale notes related to the SIPPs  liquidation 
and payments into his bank account, but not the tax-based final settlement information  he 
had previously asked  for. 
The investigators view was that Barclays was not obliged to provide  the sort of tax related 
final settlement Mr B asked for. My view is that the closing statement evidence shows  
relevant information  about the opening balance prior to liquidation of the SIPP, about  the 
transactions (and associated assets  and values) conducted in the course  of the liquidation,  
about the increases in the cash balance as the liquidation progressed, about  the final cash  
balance once the liquidation concluded  and about that final cash balance being remitted  
thereafter by BACS.  The statement also provides information on dividend  income  received 
and remitted during the period up to the closing of the SIPP.  In addition, I have seen 
evidence that, during  the life of the SIPP, periodic statements appear to have been  issued 
for it.
Overall and on balance,  I am satisfied  Mr B was given statement information  pertinent  to the 
closing of the SIPP and evidence is not clear in supporting an entitlement to receive, from 
Barclays, the tax-based settlement information he sought at the time.
Barclays Complaint Management
Barclays recognises that its treatment of the complaint was unduly delayed.  It is noteworthy 
that this happened after closure  of the SIPP, so other than Mr B reasonably expecting an 
outcome to the complaint  but facing the delay instead, it does not appear  that any other 
consequence arose from it. It has been  possible  for him to refer the complaint to this service  
and for it to be addressed up to the point of this decision. Overall and in these 
circumstances, I consider the complaint  matter  of Barclays complaint handling process 
reasonably covered by the offer for trouble and upset it made to him.
Ref: DRN02276867my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 20 December 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0227686