K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) closed his accounts. It wont 
provide a reason and Mr B is currently  travelling abroad.
background
Mr B said Halifax  contacted him to say it would be closing his accounts in June 2019. The 
bank wont tell him why. And it knows he is travelling so he cant  visit his local branch to find 
out what has happened. 
Once the accounts are closed Mr B wont be able to access  his money. And he cant set up 
a new account  elsewhere while he is abroad. Mr B asked  the bank to cover his travel  
expenses so he can return  to the UK. But Halifax has refused. So he wants  the bank  to 
leave his accounts open. Or wait until hes returned  to the UK before closing them.
Halifax said it regularly carried out reviews of customer  accounts.  And a decision had been 
taken to close Mr Bs accounts. It said it was outside of the banks risk appetite.  Mr B could 
appeal the decision  by providing further  information about how the account  had been  used. 
But he would have  to visit his branch. Halifax understood this would  be difficult  if he was 
travelling. But it wasnt  able to offer another option  to complete the appeal process. 
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with Halifaxs response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs 
account. And it allowed Halifax to end the agreement with Mr B with two months notice.  She 
appreciated making alterative arrangements would be difficult for Mr B while he was 
overseas. But she felt Halifax had given sufficient  notice.  And she thought  it was reasonable 
for Halifax to ask the customer  to attend  in person  if they wanted  to appeal.
Mr B didnt agree. He felt Halifaxs decision was very unfair.  So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Mr B. Halifax  decided  to close  his 
accounts while he was travelling abroad. And hes not able to return  to deal with the matter 
in time. So Ive looked at everything  Mr B and Halifax have  said to see if the bank  has done 
anything wrong.
The terms and conditions  of the account allow Halifax to end its relationship  provided it gives 
at least 65 calendar days  notice. In certain circumstances, for example where the bank feels 
there is a risk of fraud or illegal  activity,  the bank can close  an account  without  notice.
Mr B says he is travelling abroad. And hes not aware of any reason why Halifax should 
close his account.  But Halifax, like other banks, carries out regular reviews of its customer  
accounts. And on this occasion its decided it no longer wants  to offer banking facilities  to 
Mr B. This is something the bank is entitled to do as part of the terms of the account. Just as 
Mr B might decide he wanted to move his account  to another  bank. And Halifax doesnt  have 
to provide an explanation.
Ref: DRN03595982Mr Bs circumstances make it difficult for him to deal with Halifaxs decision. He is currently  
overseas and unable to set up a new account until he returns. And he feels its unfair he 
would have to explain his transactions to Halifax when everything is legitimate. Unfortunately 
this is part of Halifaxs appeal process. And it could only be completed if Mr B was in the UK 
to visit his branch  with the necessary information  or evidence.
I do appreciate how upsetting  this must  be. I can see Mr B feels the bank  has closed his 
account either because of a previous complaint  or to avoid paying the full interest on a 
savings ISA. And the timing of Halifaxs decision unfortunately coincides with Mr Bs 
travelling.
But the role of this service  is to see if Halifax has made any mistakes.  And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Halifax hasnt followed its procedures correctly. 
Halifax wrote  to Mr B on 17 April 2019  to say it would be closing his accounts. It gave 65 
days notice. And it said Mr B should  make alternative banking  arrangements  within that 
period. So it acted within the terms and conditions of the account.
I can see Halifax has said it will send  a cheque to Mr Bs registered UK address for the 
balance on his accounts. And if this isnt suitable  I hope  Mr B is able to contact  the bank to 
make alternative arrangements.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But based  on what Ive seen I cant really  
say Halifax has done anything wrong in closing Mr Bs accounts. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0359598