K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of the estate of the late Mr M that National Savings and 
investments (NS&I) caused  delays  when she tried to cash-in his premium  bond holdings.
There are three executors of Mr Ms estate including  his wife. Mrs M has provided  the 
information in respect  of this complaint with the consent of the other  executors.
background
In April 2017 Mr M sadly passed away. In the same year,  Mrs M, acting as executor, brought 
a complaint to NS&I  about two of Mr Ms premium bond holdings   this complaint was 
escalated to our service. Ultimately, in February 2018, the ombudsman didnt uphold  the 
complaint with the result that ineligible  prizes relating to Mr Ms second holding,  would still 
need to be repaid to NS&I.
In late March 2018, Mrs M began arranging to have these and other  holdings  cashed in. 
Firstly she sent NS&I  the required legal documents. Then, in late April 2018, she sent a 
repayment form - completion  of this form is part of NS&Is death  claims process  and 
authorises payment  to the executors of the premium bond holders estate. But Mrs M only 
completed a repayment  form for Mr Ms first holding.
NS&I wrote to Mrs M on 11 May 2018 pointing out it hadnt received the repayment form in 
respect of the second holding. NS&I also noted  that in respect  of this holding,  arrangements 
needed to be made  to repay the ineligible prize money. Following a phone call with Mrs M, 
NS&I wrote to her again on 23 May 2018, this time highlighting  that in respect  of the first 
holding, the repayment form didnt include the payee  details. NS&I  said without this 
information and the authorisation of all three executors, it was unable release the funds. It 
reiterated it also needed a repayment form for the second holding.
Further letters and phone calls ensued. Unable to resolve the issue,  Mrs M made a 
complaint to NS&I  saying  itd caused  delays  by:
 
Failing to proactively  arrange for the payment of the second holding following the 
ombudsmans decision in February  2018;
Failing to return the original repayment  form  she said this would save her time by 
not having to complete a new form;
Wrongly informing her that the repayment  form had been completed  correctly.
NS&I didnt uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. NS&I said that all the requested  information  was 
needed before it could  arrange the relevant payments. Additionally, the executors needed to 
provide details of how the estate wanted  to repay  the ineligible  prize money. NS&I said this 
could be done  by either the executors agreeing to have the money deducted directly from 
the second holding, or, alternatively, arranging  a separate payment directly to NS&I.
NS&I said it noted  Mrs Ms point that she considers  the second holding should have been  
sent to her following the ombudsmans  decision in February 2018. But it said this couldnt  be 
done because  the repayment  forms, and legal documents, were needed before it could 
agree to release the funds  in respect of a deceased  persons holdings. Unhappy  with NS&Is 
response, Mrs M brought  her complaint  to our service.
Ref: DRN06692032Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Amongst other things, she listened  to several 
calls between NS&I and Mrs M. She concluded  there was no evidence  of an NS&I agent 
telling Mrs M that she had completed  the repayment  form correctly. Overall our investigator 
considered NS&I had acted fairly  in requiring Mrs M, and the other executors, to follow  its 
process in respect  of both holdings before it would agree  to release the funds.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view. She said that she didnt disagree with NS&Is 
process but rather the delays that she said it had caused. So the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
Before I explain my reasoning, Id like to say that Im aware that Ive summarised the events 
of the complaint. I dont intend  any discourtesy by this - Ive just concentrated on what I think  
are the key issues. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because  I havent considered  
it  its just that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is a fair 
and reasonable outcome. Further, Im sorry to hear about Mrs Ms loss. I recognise  this is a 
particularly distressing time.
NS&I not being proactive
I appreciate Mrs M thought that following the ombudsmans  decision NS&I should have sent 
her the payment in respect of the second  holding, automatically, after deducting the ineligible 
prize money. Mrs M says NS&I has no legal right to hold on to the money in respect of the 
second holding   she says the ombudsmans decision means it should release the funds to 
the estate without the need for anything further.
NS&I, however, has explained the reason for not releasing the funds is because  its process  
hasnt been followed, in that no repayment  form has been received for this holding. I dont 
think anything in the ombudsmans decision changed that requirement. So I cant  see any 
reasonable grounds on which I could fairly  ask NS&I to amend its process to submit a 
repayment form.
I note in its letter to Mrs M dated 11 May 2018, NS&I  didnt refer to the errors made  in the 
repayment form that was submitted in respect  of the first holding.  In particular, Mrs M hadnt 
included the relevant payee details  this is something she says was a genuine lapse on her 
part. So I think that NS&I  missed an opportunity to highlight these errors to Mrs M at an 
earlier stage. I can see, however,  that NS&I did write to Mrs M again  on 23 May 2018 - this 
time it did highlight  the errors in the repayment  form. So whilst I acknowledge there was an 
initial delay in letting  Mrs M know about the mistakes made on the repayment form, I think  
this was cleared  up in a relatively short period of time. 
I note that Mrs M has recently confirmed to this service that as of 10 February 2020, she and 
the other executors, still havent submitted the repayment forms for either holding. So I 
consider even if Mrs M had been  told a few days earlier about the errors in the initial 
repayment form, this would not have  prevented the more significant delays that followed. 
These delays have resulted from Mrs M, and the other executors failing to submit, or 
Ref: DRN06692033resubmit, correctly completed repayment  forms even once told about the errors. And I cant 
hold NS&I responsible for that.
NS&I not returning the original repayment form
Mrs M also makes  the point that if NS&I sent the original repayment  form back,  this would 
have saved time. But NS&Is says its process means the original form couldnt  be sent back 
- this is because when its received, the form is scanned onto its systems with the original 
then destroyed.  So whilst I understand that Mrs M might find this frustrating, what  I need to 
consider here are any failures by NS&I and the impact these failures have caused. In this 
case, the form was completed incorrectly. Therefore, I dont think  NS&I has done anything  
wrong by asking for a new repayment  form to be submitted.
 
NS&I wrongly informing Mrs M that the repayment form was completed correctly 
Like the investigator, Ive listened  to the calls between NS&I and Mrs M that took place 
between May and October 2018.  I understand these arent all the calls as NS&I  have said 
some of these cannot be traced. So I cant be sure what Mrs M was told about the 
repayment form when  she initially enquired  about in early May 2018 - she says she was told 
it was complete and correct when she first contacted NS&I. However, as noted above, 
Mrs M was told by 23 May 2018  about the mistakes. So Im not persuaded being  told about 
the errors  earlier would have  prevented the more significant delays that followed. 
Overall, therefore, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Ms situation, for the reasons Ive outlined  
above, Im not upholding the complaint.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr M, to accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0669203