K821x#15complaint
Mr F and the estate of Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plcs predecessor  business 
wrongly advised Mr F and his late wife to invest too much  of their money in a product which  
was too risky for them  as first-time investors,  particularly given their circumstances.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 26 April 2019. A copy of this is attached  and forms part of this decision.
Santander did not agree with my findings,  and said:
Investing in the capital-protected product allowed Mr and Mrs F to invest  in the Super  
ISA as well as the Super Bond so any redress would need  to take into account the 
benefits they received from both accounts over the 13 month  preferential  rate period
The Bank of England  base rate fell to 0.5% in 2009 and has not risen above this level 
since. So it doesnt know what product would have given them a rate of 5% over 3.5 
years. The interest rates  on its accounts were considerably lower than this
Mr and Mrs F were  known at the branch and opened multiple accounts over the 
years. Had the previous advice been unsuitable it seems likely they would have 
raised this with branch staff
The three products  combined enabled  them to have the opportunity  for a high return 
on their funds; the capital-protected  one offering up to an 18% return
No-one could predict what the returns would be on the capital-protected product, and 
it is not appropriate to use hindsight when  judging its ultimate return
The documentation  made clear that they were  only guaranteed  a return  of 2% and 
the evidence indicates they were happy with this product
It now accepts they should  only have invested £39,000 between them rather  than 
£39,000 each  and proposes compensation on this basis 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has still not suggested that Mr and Mrs F had ever chosen to take a risk with their 
money before;  its recent response  referring  only to risk-free  accounts,  ISAs and fixed-rate 
bonds. So their experience,  such  as it was, was solely of differing but simple and transparent 
interest-bearing accounts. By contrast this was a risk-based product as any interest/return  
was based on the FTSE,  and if this did not rise then the real value  of their money would fall 
 and potentially  significantly   over the period in question.
Given this, I think the advisor needed  to do far more to spell out the potential  downsides to 
this product. Crucially, I think  he should  given Mr and Mrs Fs lack of investment 
experience  have  spelt  out how much guaranteed interest they were giving up via this 
product.
As I detailed  in my provisional decision,  the maximum return they could have got via this 
product was little/no  more  than what it was offering via a risk-free fixed-rate bond.  At the 
same time if the FTSE did not rise they would get little more  than 0.5%  interest a year; over 
4% per annum less than they could have been guaranteed via a medium fixed-rate bond.  
Ref: DRN02954732This assessment is not based  on hindsight,  as Santander argues, but a simple  analysis of 
the comparative figures from the time. 
If the advisor  felt the product was still a good  recommendation despite this then I think  he 
should have set out a detailed comparison of the relative rates  of the two products plus the 
preferential accounts  so Mr and Mrs F could make  a fully informed decision about whether 
they want to expose their money to the risk posed by this product. On the balance of 
probabilities, and taking into account their circumstances, I still think it would have been 
unlikely that they would  have gone  ahead with the recommendation even though  it allowed  
them to access its preferential savings  bond/ISA.
Finally, I can see no reason why Mr and Mrs Fs knowledge of the various current and 
deposit account rates over the years indicates  this would have given them  grounds  to 
complain about  the suitability  of this advice before now. The fact that Santander  has 
confirmed that Mr and Mrs F were very familiar with the risk-free  options available  and 
regularly invested sums in different fixed-rate bonds, deposit accounts etc. simply suggests 
they would  probably have  looked around  for the best guaranteed savings rate over the same 
comparable time commitment. Hence my view that redress based  on 5% interest feels fair 
and reasonable.
This is because while  Santanders own medium terms bonds only offered either 4.75% or 
4.8%, Mr and Mrs F could easily have got a return of 5% a year over the 3 years from a 
number of high street banks and building societies. I therefore instruct  Santander  to compare 
the return Mr and Mrs F got via the GCP against  a return  of 5% a year over the same 3 
years.
As they could not have accessed  the 9.1% savings rate it should then calculate how much 
less interest they would have got on the other  £78,000 of their money  if it had only earned 
6.55% interest  across the year/13 months.  It should then deduct this difference  from the 
redress calculation above to produce a fair total compensation figure. If this still shows a loss 
it should pay this sum and add 8% simple interest  per annum to it from the date of maturity  
of the capital-protected  product to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Santander UK Plc to pay compensation as outlined. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02954733provisional decision
complaint
Mr F and the estate of Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plcs  predecessor business wrongly 
advised Mr F and his late wife to invest too much of their money in a product  which was too risky for 
them as first-time investors, particularly  given  their circumstances.
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs F had around £170,000 in a mixture of cash-based ISAs  and standard savings 
accounts. They  were advised to put £78,000 (half of their non ISA-based money) into a structured  
product (GCP) with the money being split equally between  them  in separate  accounts. This 
investment allowed them to put an additional £78,000 in a special one year high interest account.
The GCP guaranteed the return of ones capital  after 3 years with any interest/growth based on the 
performance of the FTSE over this period. If the FTSE rose then investors  would get an 18% return, if 
it stayed  the same or fell they would  get 2%. These figures  meant in practice  a return of roughly 5% a 
year if the FTSE  rose and just over 0.5 % otherwise.
Mr Fs representative said:
Mr F was in poor health and it was unclear if/when he would be able to return to work
They  had just moved  house and didnt know how much of their money theyd need for the 
proposed renovations
Mrs F had retired
They  should have  been  advised  to a keep a large  cash reserve
They  were both advised  to put a vast amount of their money in the same product so the 
advice clearly lacked diversification
An adjudicator at this service did not feel the advice  had been  unreasonable given the GCP did not 
pose any risk to their capital.
Mr Fs representative disagreed, saying it was not accurate  to describe the product  as no risk, 
particularly given the penalties  for early withdrawals.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I share Mr Fs representatives  concerns  about describing this as a no risk product. In 2008  the UK 
inflation rate was hovering around 4.5% so a product that only guaranteed  a return of 0.5% a year 
posed a significant risk to the real value  of an investors money, particularly in comparison to the 
guaranteed savings rates  on offer at the time.
I note the recommendations  letter said the business offered three types of products, described as 
Capital Secure, Capital Variable and Structured Investments. It then states that Capital Secure  
products (deposit accounts/fixed-rate  bonds  etc.) pose a risk that inflation and low interest rates could 
impact on returns and are best suited to short term needs. However,  its description  of structured 
products does not mention  the same  risk of inflation and low interest rates impacting  on the value of 
ones capital. These statements seem to me to be misleading  on two grounds.  
Firstly, it is widely accepted  that it is sensible to keep a proportion of ones assets in risk-free sources  
and, depending on ones circumstances;  this could  include the majority or all of ones money. So to 
Ref: DRN02954734describe deposit accounts  and fixed-term  bonds as best  suited to short  term needs is, in my view, 
not merely misleading but wrong. 
Secondly, most structured  products pose a greater  risk to the real value of ones money set against 
inflation than a deposit account or fixed-rate bond as they invariably offer little or no guaranteed  
return. So to issue this warning about Capital Secure  products but not structured products was 
completely misleading.
I also have concerns about  the recommendation  to invest so much money  in one product. Even if Mr 
and Mrs F were willing to expose  some  of their money to some investment risk, I believe they should  
have been offered  a far more diversified recommendation.
Crucially, however, I am not satisfied that the advisor made clear the risk posed by the GCP in terms 
of the absence  of a guaranteed competitive return on this very substantial  portion  of Mr and Mrs Fs 
money. Ive seen no evidence to indicate that he fully explained the nature of the recommended 
product and its relative merits  and drawbacks.
Firstly, Ive seen no evidence that the advisor explained to Mr and Mrs F, first-time  investors, that they 
shouldnt assume the FTSE would necessarily  rise over the next 3 years;  rather  there was just as 
much evidence to suggest  it may well decline. Given thered been a 10% fall in the FTSE 100 since 
the start of the year,  and that these sorts of fluctuations had been common over the previous decade, 
I believe he should have  done.
Even more importantly, the advisor  did not point out the returns Mr and Mrs F could have been 
guaranteed via the banks own three year fixed-rate bonds. In June 2008 it offered a three year bond 
with a guaranteed annual return  of 4.75%, and this was at the low end of the rates being offered by 
high street banks and building societies - with up to 6.5% on offer via three and four year fixed-rate 
bonds.
 
So Mr and Mrs F could easily have  been  guaranteed  a return of 18% on their money without  the risk 
of ending up with just 0.5% a year via the GCP  i.e. they could have been guaranteed the same return  
that they might have  got if the FTSE  rose.
Given they were  first-time investors I think it was particularly important for the advisor to have  offered 
such a fair comparison between the GCP and other comparable savings options. As there is no 
evidence to indicate that he did so, I dont believe  Mr and Mrs F were  in a fully informed decision to 
decide whether to go ahead with his recommendation.
Anyone investing in the GCP was entitled to invest the same  amount in a special  one year savings 
account paying 9.1%  interest  and Mr and Mrs F chose to do this. If they had not invested in the 
GCP the best one year savings rate on offer via Santanders  predecessor business was 6.55%. 
However, this reduction  of 2.55% over one year was dwarfed by the potential loss of at least  15% 
interest over 3 years  via the GSP.
The advisor  did not provide any of these comparisons  so Mr and Mrs F could not make an intelligent 
assessment of the options available to them, including  the two-edged sword of the 9.1% savings  rate. 
Had he outlined  the comparative advantages and disadvantages of the various products available, I 
am satisfied  they would  not have put any money in the GCP but instead put this £78,500 in a high-
interest guaranteeing product on offer either via Santander or another mainstream  provider.
I cannot safely say whether they would  have  put this money in Santanders  three year bond, chosen 
one of the fixed-term bond rates offered by other providers or selected the 6.55% one year savings 
account - and then reinvested this money in a further high-earning product. I note that a year on, in 
June 2009, Santander was offering 5.5% on a one year deposit account, thereby guaranteeing 6.0% 
overall during the first two years in question.
Ref: DRN02954735Given all this, I think it is fair to base compensation on the reasonable assumption that Mr and Mrs F 
could easily have got a return of 5% a year over the 3 years, if properly advised. I therefore  intend 
to instruct Santander to compare  the return Mr and Mrs F got via the GCP  against a return of 5% a 
year over the same  3 years.
As they could  not have  accessed the 9.1% savings rate it should then calculate  how much less 
interest they would have  got on the other £78,000  of their money if it had only earned 6.55% interest 
across the year. It should then deduct this difference from the redress calculation  above to produce a 
fair compensation loss.
It should then pay this sum and add 8% simple interest per annum to it from the date of maturity  to the 
date of settlement  of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay compensation  as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0295473