K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that MCE  Insurance Company Limited (MCE) stored  his motorcycle  
without his consent and wont return it unless he pays  the associated  storage  costs.
Where I refer to MCE, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
background
Mr K held a comprehensive motorcycle insurance  policy with MCE, which  covered him in the 
event of an accident amongst other  things.  
On 23 May 2018 Mr K was involved in an accident.  A call was made by his friend, Ms C, to 
MCE to arrange  recovery of the motorcycle.  
Ms C asked for the motorcycle to be taken to her property nearby;  she explained they could  
leave it on her private pathway.  MCE advised that as the location was not secure they would 
need to take it into storage. The motorcycle was taken to a site owned  by a company Ill call 
W.  Mr K later decided  he didnt want to make a claim on his comprehensive policy. He was 
told by MCE that because of this he would  be liable to pay the storage charges if he wanted 
to reclaim his motorcycle. 
Mr K complained, saying  he hadnt been  made aware of the storage costs and that MCE had 
taken his motorcycle into storage without his consent. He also complained  that MCE was 
preventing him from collecting his motorcycle from W.
MCE said it had initially been told Mr K would be making a claim but as he later decided 
against this he was liable to pay the storage costs. MCE  didnt agree it had prevented Mr K 
from collecting his motorcycle at any time. So, Mr K referred his complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought MCE had made  it clear  in their 
initial call what costs would be incurred if a claim was or wasnt  made on the policy.  She also 
said she had no evidence  to suggest  MCE had taken steps to prevent Mr K from collecting 
his motorcycle from W.  
Mr K didnt agree. So, a senior adviser at the service reviewed  the complaint. She thought 
the complaint  should be upheld. She said she didnt think MCE should have taken instruction 
from Ms C, who wasnt a policyholder and didnt have  the necessary authority to initiate a 
claim. She also didnt  think it was reasonable for MCE to refuse  to recover the vehicle to 
Ms Cs property. The senior adviser  also didnt think MCE  had made it clear  to Ms C that 
Mr K would be liable for storage costs  if he later decided not to make a claim.
The senior adviser recommended that MCE should  return Mr Ks motorcycle and waive the 
storage costs. She also thought it should  pay Mr K £350 for the trouble and upset caused, 
less the £90 it would have  cost Mr K for MCE to recover the motorcycle  to his home address.
Mr K accepted this but added that since hed complained he had become aware that the 
condition of his motorcycle  had deteriorated.  He also added  that hed had to pay for 
transport whilst without his motorcycle and that he wasnt  able to declare it off road and so 
had incurred other fees. The senior  adviser explained that as these issues had arisen since 
MCE issued its final response  on Mr Ks initial complaint, Mr K would need  to give it the 
opportunity to respond in the first instance.
Ref: DRN04719452MCE didnt agree. It said if it hadnt  taken steps  to recover Mr Ks motorcycle  from the scene 
of the accident  it could  have been  stolen. It also said it had attempted to contact Mr K soon 
after his accident  but couldnt reach  him. It asked for a final decision on the matter.
I contacted MCE to explain I was minded to uphold  the complaint. I wished to clarify  that the 
address to which Ms C had requested  the recovery was in fact Mr Ks address,  where his 
motorcycle was kept  as per the policy schedule. So, I also didnt think  it was reasonable to 
return this request down.  But regardless of this, I also agreed it was unreasonable for MCE 
to take instruction from Ms C to recover the motorcycle and initiate a claim. This was 
because Mr K hadnt consented  to this or confirmed to MCE that Ms C was authorised to 
make decisions  on his behalf. I agreed  with the senior advisers  recommendation to put 
things right.
I asked MCE to let me know  if it was willing to accept my findings  informally,  but as it didnt 
reply Im now making my final decision.
my findings   
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments put forward by MCE and Mr K to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and I will explain why. 
liability for storage  costs    
Having listened  to the initial call between Ms C and MCE its clear to me that the main  
reason for the call was to notify  MCE of the accident and request a recovery  of the 
motorcycle.  MCE advised that her property  was not a secure location, so the motorcycle  
would need to be recovered  to a storage facility. There was a brief discussion about the 
costs; MCE advised  that if a claim was being  made under the policy  then the costs would be 
refunded but if a claim wasnt going  to be made they would charge on a pay as you go 
basis. MCE said this would involve  a call out charge of £90 and an additional £1.50 per mile.
Im satisfied this element  of the costs was made clear but there  was no mention of storage 
costs throughout  the call. I think this was important information to disclose before any 
decision about making a claim was made.  I understand that an exact  amount may not have 
been able to be quoted  but there should  have been,  at a minimum, some  indication as to the 
liability of storage costs  if a claim wasnt made.   
In my opinion, Ms C was pressured into to making  a decision as to whether a claim would be 
made or not. She explained to MCE more than once that she couldnt confirm  a claim was 
going to be made and that her main  concern was Mr Ks welfare as he had been rushed into 
hospital for an emergency operation.  However,  she was told MCE couldnt recover  the 
motorcycle to her address  and that it would need to be taken into storage. The agent said 
this would be fully covered  if Mr K was making a claim, which  I believe led Ms C to make the 
decision. She did pause and confer  with another friend, who told her Mr K would probably 
want to make a claim. This is not in dispute.  However, I dont think MCE should  have 
proceeded on this basis.
Ms C was not a policyholder nor was she a named rider on the policy. I also havent seen 
any evidence to suggest Mr K had given his express consent for MCE to discuss  his policy  
with Ms C. I understand  the agent was under the impression that Ms C was Mr Ks partner, 
Ref: DRN04719453but I dont think  such  a relationship can reasonably override  the important issue of consent. 
So, I dont think MCE should have taken any action to recover the motorcycle  without  
speaking to Mr K (or gaining his consent  to take instruction from Ms C) and discussing the 
full implications and costs associated with making a claim or not.
MCE said they had a duty of care to their customers to ensure  their vehicles are recovered 
following an accident.  Theyve said had they not arranged for the motorcycle  to be recovered 
then it may have been stolen. But Ms C made it clear during  the call that the front wheel of 
the motorcycle had been disc-locked so it was immobilised. In fact, Ive seen notes from the 
initial recovery attempt showing it was failed because the motorcycle was so difficult to move 
 a flat bed truck had to be sent instead. So, I dont think the risk of the motorcycle being 
stolen outweighed the risk of proceeding with the recovery  without  Mr Ks express consent.
Overall, I dont  think MCE should have taken instruction from a third party  who was had no 
authority to give consent to recovering the motorcycle or initiate a claim.   If MCE hadnt  taken 
any action until it received Mr Ks instruction, on balance I think  he wouldve agreed to pay 
the fee to have his motorcycle recovered to the insured address rather  than to take it into 
storage. Whilst the agent Ms C spoke with deemed  this address not to be a secure  location,  
as it was Mr Ks property it was his risk to take. So, I cant see any reason why the 
motorcycle couldnt have  been recovered to his home address. For this reason, I dont think 
Mr K is liable for any storage costs, as these accrued without his knowledge or consent.  I 
also think his motorcycle should be returned to him as soon as possible.
Mr K also complained that he was prevented from collecting his motorcycle, meaning that 
the storage fees increased. However,  as I dont  think Mr Ks motorcycle should have ever 
been recovered to the storage  facility, I dont need to make a finding  on this point.
Mr K has raised concerns about  the current condition of his motorcycle.  However, as the 
senior adviser has said, this is a new issue that arose after MCE considered Mr Ks 
complaint. So, this would need to be raised with it in the first instance.
compensation  
I think MCE should pay Mr K £350  for the trouble and upset caused by the service  provided. 
I dont think MCE can be said to have  treated Mr K fairly as it recovered his motorcycle  to W 
without his consent and without explaining  the financial consequences of doing so. I can see 
the process has caused Mr K distress and hes been significantly inconvenienced by being 
without his only mode of transport for so long.  I appreciate that Mr K being  unwilling to pay 
the storage costs  probably contributed to him being without his motorcycle  throughout this 
time. But given Mr K hadnt  agreed to the storage and wasnt  made aware of the associated 
costs, I can appreciate why he wasnt willing to pay.
Mr K has said he incurred  extra  transport  costs throughout this period. I accept he wouldve 
needed to use alternative transport, but it isnt clear  whether this wouldve exceeded  the 
amounts Mr K wouldve spent on fuel and parking.  He also hasnt provided evidence of this. 
So, overall I think a sum of £350 is fair. I also think it would be fair for MCE to deduct  £90 
from this (the approximate  cost of recovering the motorcycle  to Mr Ks insured address) as 
I think Mr K wouldve  agreed to this at the time. So, MCE should pay Mr K £260.
Ref: DRN04719454my final decision  
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.  
I understand MCE Insurance Company Limited still has Mr Ks motorcycle in its possession.  
So it should  return  Mr Ks motorcycle  to him at no cost to Mr K and waive the associated 
storage fees.
 
MCE Insurance Company Limited  should  also pay Mr K £260  for the trouble and upset 
caused.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0471945