K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains about lending made  to him by Lloyds Bank  PLC.
background
Mr J borrowed  a large amount of money from Lloyds, by first applying for and then greatly 
increasing an overdraft.  He said hed borrowed £2,500 in a short  period of time. Mr J said he 
shouldnt have been able to do that, because he had no job, and was already over £40,000  
in existing debt.  
Mr J said that he couldnt possibly pay off what he had borrowed.  He wanted Lloyds to write  
off this debt, and remove any negative markers from his credit  file. 
Lloyds told us that Mr J applied for an overdraft of £250 on 25 June 2017. His borrowing had 
increased to £2,500 by 6 July 2017.  Lloyds said Mr J had told it that he was employed. Hed 
said at first that he had an income of £2,000 per month with £500  of monthly commitments,  
but then on later applications  he said he had an income of £4,000 per month and no monthly 
commitments. Lloyds said there was no duty on it to check  Mr J had a job, but there  was a 
duty on Mr J to give true and accurate  information  when he made his lending applications.
Lloyds said Mr J then disputed a number of transactions on his account.  He received refunds 
for these  transactions while they were  being  investigated. And he spent those refunds. On 
the last occasion, this meant that when the transactions  were  found to be genuine,  and 
debited from his account again,  Mr J was around  £1,000 over his overdraft limit. The 
overdraft was removed  at that time,  and Mr Js account was defaulted.  
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that Lloyds had lent Mr J £750 on the basis  
of the income  he first declared.  But it initially refused to lend more than that. Mr J then just 
reapplied saying that he earned double what hed previously declared, and had no 
commitments, and Lloyds  accepted Mr Js application. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Lloyds shouldve lent any more than £750 to Mr J. So she 
thought Lloyds should pay Mr J back any interest  and charges for allowing Mr J to borrow  
beyond this amount.  Our adjudicator also said that Lloyds should  remove  the default from 
Mr Js credit file, and ensure that the outstanding debt was held in-house and an affordable  
plan set up to repay  the debt. She said this also shouldnt have any impact  on his credit file. 
Mr J agreed to this proposal. But Lloyds  didnt. It said that it would refund fees and charges 
back to the date proposed. That was £27.20, debited on 1 December 2017. But Lloyds felt 
that the account wouldve  defaulted regardless of the amount Mr J was lent. It said that Mr J 
had been abusing the disputed transaction process. His account was closed because  of this, 
and he was asked  to repay his debt as part of that. The default was applied  when  he failed 
to do that. So Lloyds didnt think that should  be removed from Mr Js credit  file. 
Lloyds said it wouldnt keep this debt in-house. It uses  agents  to recover debts for it. They 
are trained  to deal with vulnerable customers,  and Lloyds didnt think  that would impact  
aversely on Mr J. Lloyds  wouldnt make  any commitment not to sell on Mr Js debt. 
Lloyds also said that the team that deals with customer  complaints  couldnt set up a recovery  
plan either.  It wanted Mr J to get in touch with the team  that manages repayments.  It said 
that Mr J hadnt made any repayments yet. 
Ref: DRN00010792Because Lloyds  didnt  agree with our adjudicator, this case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mr J made a number of applications for an overdraft online over a short period of time. I 
could see that his account wasnt receiving  a salary payment, but it was receiving regular 
transfers in and out before this. I thought  it was therefore reasonable for Lloyds  to have 
considered that Mr J may have another account  elsewhere. I didnt think  that the account 
activity I could see on Mr Js statements shouldve caused Lloyds to question what he 
said about his income  and outgoings  on the first lending applications that Mr J made. So, 
like our adjudicator, I didnt think Lloyds did anything wrong when it lent Mr J up to £750.
-Mr J then made a further  application, which was declined. He reapplied,  declaring  a 
significantly larger income,  and no outgoings.  I thought that this shouldve  caused Lloyds 
to question what Mr J had said about  his income  and outgoings  on his online 
applications. I thought that Lloyds made a mistake when  it didnt question  what  hed said,  
and instead lent Mr J amounts over £750, rising to £2,500. 
-For those reasons, I agreed with our adjudicator that Lloyds should pay Mr J back  any 
interest, fees and charges for borrowing over £750. I noted that Lloyds had agreed to do 
that. It said it would  use that amount to reduce Mr Js debt to it. 
-Lloyds hadnt  agreed to do any more  than that. It didnt think  the later default was caused 
by its lending. And I thought that was right. I understood that Mr J told Lloyds  that a 
number of transactions on his account were  fraudulent. That meant that Lloyds gave him 
back the money from these disputed  transactions. It then checked the transactions,  and 
decided that they were  genuine. But it said that in the meantime, Mr J had spent the 
refunds. So, when the refunds  were  taken back out of his account, he was very 
considerably further in debt,  and greatly in excess of his agreed overdraft. 
-Lloyds said thats why it closed Mr Js account,  and defaulted his debt. It thought this 
was likely to have  happened anyway. 
-I didnt think that the closure of Mr Js account, and the default  of this debt, was directly 
related to the lending above £750 that Id said that Lloyds  should  not have made to Mr J. 
So I didnt think that Lloyds caused that default. 
-I knew that Mr J had told us about the serious  impact this debt had on him. And Id taken  
that into account in my decision. But Id explained  why I didnt think  that it was Lloydss  
fault that this debt was defaulted. And Lloyds told us that it doesnt have a mechanism  
for dealing with debts  like this one in-house.  I didnt  think it would be fair to Lloyds in this 
case to require it to set that up, so that it could treat this debt differently to others, if the 
debt hadnt defaulted  because of its mistake. 
-For those reasons, I thought that it would  be a fair outcome in this case  for Lloyds to pay 
Mr J back the interest and charges that it applied to his lending  above £750. 
Ref: DRN00010793I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds accepted my proposed decision. Mr J wrote  to disagree.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr J said he already had a number of defaults  and other outstanding debts on his credit file 
when he applied for this lending. He said Lloyds wouldve seen that, and his low credit score, 
if it had checked  properly. He also said that the money coming  into his account was financial 
support from a family member, and it was nowhere  near the levels  that were claimed. 
Mr J said that when  the third application  for an overdraft increase came  up, which he thought 
was the increase that took him to £750,  then a flag came  up on Lloyds  site saying further  
checks shouldve been done, but they werent.  Mr J said that we hadnt looked at that. 
Mr J said he was shocked to find that Lloyds wouldnt keep his debt in house,  because he 
understood that Lloyds prides  itself on helping out vulnerable customers. He said most 
banks did have a system  for keeping debts in-house. And he said although Lloyds said it 
didnt think this would impact him aversely, that was completely wrong. He said this had all 
caused a considerable  amount of stress and anxiety, and he was having regular treatment.
Mr J also said that he didnt accept  the default  wouldve happened anyway. He said it 
wouldnt if Lloyds had kept to the £500 that was agreed and not let him take the £750. 
 
Mr J didnt think that Lloyds shouldve allowed him to have any overdraft, and he didnt think  
it wouldve  done if it had checked properly. 
I wouldnt expect Lloyds  to have seen Mr Js credit score.  Credit  scores are provided  by 
credit reference agencies as a quick  and accessible way for customers to assess whats on 
their credit files. Banks dont necessarily assess that data in the same way. But I would 
expect Lloyds to have seen the data on Mr Js credit file, and made its own assessment  on 
the basis of that. 
Lloyds told us that it did check Mr Js credit file. And it knew Mr J had defaults. But it said 
that these were all some  time ago, in 2012 and 2013, and those defaults wouldnt have as 
great an impact as more  recent ones. 
Mr J also said that one of his lending applications raised a flag for further enquiries, and that 
wasnt followed up. I think theres  been some  confusion  about which  of Mr Js applications 
for increased  lending  this was. It was the application  that Mr J made on 28 June  2017,  to 
increase his borrowing from £750 to £1,000.  Lloyds  turned down that application. I took 
account of this query, as well as the differences between Mr Js declared income on his 
earlier and later applications, when I said that Lloyds shouldnt have lent Mr J more than 
£750. So Ive not ignored this issue.
Ive now considered the additional points that Mr J has made,  and I still dont think that 
Lloyds made  a mistake  when it increased  his overdraft up to £750. 
Mr J also said most  banks  do have systems  for keeping debts in-house. But Lloyds  says it 
hasnt. Its told us that its debt handlers  are trained to deal with vulnerable  persons, so it 
Ref: DRN00010794doesnt think that the fact that its debts  arent  dealt with in house will make a difference to 
Mr J. Ive considered that, and explained why I didnt think  that it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require Lloyds to set up a system to manage Mr Js debt internally. 
Mr J has told us that this default  has had a serious effect on him, and he thinks thats Lloyds 
fault. So Ive also thought  again about  this default. And I still dont think that was related to 
the lending that Lloyds  had made  to Mr J. 
I think that the account defaulted because Mr J spent some refunds Lloyds gave him for 
transactions hed said were fraudulent.  Lloyds  checked the transactions, and decided that 
they were genuine,  so it took the refunds  back out of his account. Mr J was then very 
considerably in excess of his agreed  overdraft, and when he couldnt pay this money,  his 
account was defaulted.
I think its more likely than not that the same thing wouldve  happened  with these 
transactions, even  if Mr J had no agreed  overdraft at all. When this complaint came to us, 
Lloyds told us that Mr J hadnt  paid anything  towards this debt. That makes  me think that Mr 
J would  still not have been able to pay back the amounts of the spent refunds, even without 
the overdraft lending on top. So Mr Js account  would  still have been defaulted as a result  of 
these refunds being spent, even if Lloyds hadnt lent him any money at all. And that means I 
still dont think this default is Lloyds fault.  
Ill now make  the award I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must refund £27.20 of interest and charges to 
Mr J. It must use that money  to reduce Mr Js debt to it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0001079