K820x#14complaint
B, a limited  company, complains that its credit card account isnt displayed correctly  when it 
logs into Lloyds Bank Plcs  online banking service.  B is represented by its director, who Ill 
call Mr S. Mr S asks that the problem is fixed and for compensation.
background
Mr S says since  late 2018 the available balance for Bs credit  card account has shown 
incorrectly as zero. He says not being able to check the available balance  has deterred use 
of the credit  card. He says he spent too much  time trying to sort the matter out with Lloyds.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said there was a 
problem with the screen showing the available balance as zero.  But there was other 
information available that would allow Mr S to calculate the available balance.  Our 
investigator said Lloyds  had tried to fix the problem and had been unable to do so. It gave  
Mr S advice about how to access  its internet banking service and paid £19 for the cost of 
phone calls and £150 for the inconvenience caused. The investigator said this was fair.
B didnt  agree, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S experienced problems viewing the available balance for Bs credit card account. When 
Mr S raised his concerns, Lloyds asked its IT team to investigate  the matter. Its IT team  
investigated the problem again  more recently, while the complaint has been with us. Lloyds 
hasnt been able to identify the reason for, or fix, the problem. 
I do understand Mr Ss frustration that the problem hasnt been  sorted  out. But Lloyds says 
its unable to fix the problem  which it says might not be with its systems. I cant  reasonably 
require Lloyds to do something that it says its unable to do.
Mr S likes to check the available balance before using the credit card account, which is 
understandable. But checking  the available balance online  isnt the only way he can do this. I 
think theres enough information  available  for Mr S to work out how much  credit is available.  
Or he can use Lloyds  telephone service  if he needs  the available balance to be confirmed.
Lloyds offered compensation of £150  for the inconvenience caused and £19 for the cost of 
Bs telephone calls.  I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S says he continues to experience IT problems. I appreciate  how frustrating this must be. 
But I must be clear that here Im looking into the complaint as it was brought to us earlier this 
year. 
Ref: DRN07097142my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that Lloyds Bank Plc responded 
fairly and reasonably to Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0709714