K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc applied a fraud marker to CIFAS the 
national fraud database  when it closed  his account.
background 
Mr B received a payment  of £500 into his account on 17 October 2018. NatWest was sent a 
report that these  funds were fraudulent by the senders bank. So it removed  the money and 
told Mr B it would be closing his account.  He then found out that it had added  a marker at 
CIFAS and says that meant another of his accounts  with a different financial business was 
closed and he was prevented from opening an account elsewhere.
Our investigator recommended that NatWest remove  the marker  and pay Mr B £300 in 
compensation. It agreed to do so and confirmed  the marker had been removed. Our 
investigator said that he was satisfied NatWest acted in line with the terms and conditions  in 
closing Mr Bs account. And Mr B hadnt  provided evidence of any actual financial loss.
Mr B didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said that 
as he knew there was a CIFAS marker he wasnt able to apply for a mortgage. It is clear  that 
this would be stressful without him needing to provide medical  evidence  about this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I need to consider here is compensation for Mr B. He wants  significantly more  
than has been  offered  and says that he could have saved money on rent and by now had an 
equity share  in a mortgaged  property. He also spent time on this complaint  and been  caused 
stress and wants to be compensated for that too.
I understand the points Mr B is making about  how things might have been different for him 
had he had a mortgage and bought a property.  But Im afraid that I dont accept that as an 
argument for compensating him. Id have needed  to be convinced that the only thing 
stopping him getting a mortgage was the CIFAS  marker. A marker shouldnt  lead to an 
automatic refusal   lenders  must  make  their own checks and make their own decisions. And 
without evidence of an actual mortgage  application I also couldnt be satisfied hes had a real 
not just potential financial loss. 
I dont doubt Mr B found what  happened stressful based on what  hed told us and Ive taken 
that into account. He has been  inconvenienced.  And Im looking at the overall impact and not 
units of time he says hes spent in dealing with this matter. Having done so I think that the 
resolution now proposed  is reasonable and so I wont be asking NatWest to do more than its 
now agreed to.
Ref: DRN08744622my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
to remove the CIFAS  marker relating to this payment and pay Mr B £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June   2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0874462