K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Mrs C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Santander  had to make it clear to Mrs C that she had a choice about 
it. But Mrs C says the PPI was added without any discussion with her.
Mrs C says the PPI was sold in a meeting.  Santander has sent us copies of the types of 
forms it says wouldve been  used in branch sales around this time. And these show  Mrs C 
wouldve had to complete a separate  application form for the PPI.
Santanders records also show  Mrs Cs mortgage had been running  for nearly five years 
before the PPI was sold. So I dont think Mrs C can reasonably have thought  she had to 
have the PPI in order  to get the mortgage.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  Santander made it clear to Mrs C that she 
had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs C chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mrs C, so it had to check that it was right for her. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve 
been entitled to full sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for her, Santander had to give Mrs C clear information about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Mrs Cs property couldve been  at risk if 
shed failed to make her repayments. So I think she couldve found the protection  the policy  
offered appealing. And, for the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Mrs C if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs C off taking 
it out.
Ref: DRN01058632my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0105863