K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd (T/A Aqua) passed  his account to a debt collection agency 
after agreeing a payment plan with him. 
background
Mr P opened  his credit card account with Aqua  in January 2014. In May 2018 he contacted it 
to explain he was experiencing  financial hardship.  A reduced payment plan was agreed  after 
Aqua assessed the financial information  Mr P provided, which meant that no charges or 
interest would  accrue. Mr P made  payments to his account in May and June 2018. But Aqua 
said no payments were received in July and August 2018  so it cancelled Mr Ps payment 
plan. 
On 10 September  2018 Mr P asked Aqua to reinstate his payment arrangement. But this 
wasnt possible and Mr P was asked to call back on 14 September  2018 to discuss  his 
income and expenditure. On 17 September 2018 Mr P contacted Aqua again and it agreed 
to set up a hardship  plan for three months.  Under this plan Aqua agreed  to clear the arrears 
from his account. And it said it wouldnt apply charges or interest provided Mr P made  three 
monthly payments  of £215, which would bring  his account up to date. 
Aqua said the agent Mr P spoke to during this call explained that once an account reaches  
65 days in arrears, it reserved the right to pass this to a debt collection agency (DCA). By 17 
September Mr Ps account had been  in arrears for 70 days. But at this point his account  was 
still with Aqua and he said he was assured his account wouldnt be passed to a DCA 
provided he made the required payments.  Mr P made his first payment of £215  during that 
telephone call. However, he said a day or two after making the first initial  payment he 
received a letter from a DCA saying Aqua had sold his account  to it.
Mr P was unhappy about this. So he complained  to Aqua. But it didnt uphold  his complaint. 
It told him that, on 13 September 2018, his account had been selected for debt sale.  It also 
said that when  Mr P spoke to an adviser  four days later, due to a system error, this 
information wasnt showing. So the adviser wasnt aware that Mr Ps account had already 
been selected for debt sale. And this is why the hardship plan was set up. Aqua apologised 
for the trouble and upset  this had caused  and credited Mr Ps account with £15 as a goodwill 
gesture.
Being dissatisfied with Aquas response to his complaint Mr P referred  it to our service. 
Following this, Aqua reviewed Mr Ps complaint and upheld it. It accepted there had been 
some service issues and it offered Mr P a further £85 compensation to resolve his complaint. 
But it said it couldnt take back control  of his account  or adhere  to the agreement he had 
made with it as he had wanted. 
When our adjudicator looked  into this complaint they didnt think Aqua had dealt with it fairly. 
So, they recommended  that Aqua repurchase Mr Ps account and make arrangements  with 
him for the repayment of his debt. They also thought Aqua should also pay Mr P £150 
compensation to put things right. But while Aqua agreed to pay this sum it refused to 
repurchase Mr Ps account. And it asked for this complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN09717412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to determine  this complaint 
impartially. This means I have to consider  whether  Aqua has made an error and whether its 
treated Mr P fairly and reasonably. 
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that hes upset that his account was sold to a DCA. And I can 
understand his frustration  here  especially given the context of his telephone call with Aqua 
in September  2018. But I accept that a system  error prevented Aqua from being able to see 
that Mr Ps account had been selected for debt sale four days before he contacted it on 17 
September. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the adviser  
Mr P spoke to on this occasion wouldve  told him about this if theyd  been  able to see this 
information. And I dont  believe they wouldve agreed the payment arrangement  that was set 
up or told him that making  a payment  would  prevent  his account being sold to a DCA.
Aqua has accepted it gave Mr P misleading information regarding  his repayment plan and 
its apologised for what  happened. Its already paid him £15. And its agreed to our 
adjudicators recommendation that it pay a further £150 to compensate  him for the 
misinformation it gave  him and the impact this had. But Mr P thinks Aqua should also 
repurchase his account and make arrangements with him for the repayment  of his debt. Our 
adjudicator has also recommended  this as the fairest way to resolve this complaint. But 
Aqua wont  agree to do this.  
In thinking about the fairest way to put matters right for Mr P Ive considered  things from both 
sides and Ive carefully thought about  the impact this all had on him. The consequence of 
Aquas error is that Mr P lost out on a credit  card and payment plan. He doesnt want to 
liaise with the DCA  who now own his debt and he wants  Aqua to take back control of his 
account and honour the payment arrangement  it agreed with him.
Aqua said it made a business decision to sell Mr Ps account  to a DCA after it fell into 
arrears. It said, in failing  to make monthly  payments as had been required, Mr P failed to 
comply with the terms of his account.  Having seen  Mr Ps statements I can see that prior to 
September 2018 there were occasions when he made payments late or failed to make them 
at all. And I can also see that under  the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account Aqua is 
entitled to transfer  customer accounts and debts to an external party.  But sometimes where 
a business adheres  to its terms it can lead to an unfair outcome for an individual  consumer. 
And thats what I think happened here for Mr P.
I say this because  during  Mr Ps telephone discussion with Aqua on 17 September 2018 he 
was clearly told his account wouldnt be sold to a DCA if he made a payment  that day. Im 
satisfied that this created a legitimate expectation  in Mr Ps mind  that if he made that 
payment his account would remain with Aqua. Mr P made the payment he was told to make 
even though he said this would put him behind  with other commitments.  Having heard the 
telephone recording  Aqua has provided I think Mr P made that payment to ensure that his 
account wouldnt be passed to a DCA. And, while his account had already been selected for 
debt sale, I think it was unfair for Aqua to proceed with that sale in the circumstances  given 
what it had agreed with him. 
With this in mind Im persuaded that the fairest way to put matters  right here for Aqua to 
repurchase the Mr Ps account and make arrangements with him for the repayment of his 
debt. I should  make it clear to Mr P though that I cant ask Aqua to provide a lending facility  
Ref: DRN09717413to him because thats a decision for Aqua to make having exercised its discretion and 
commercial judgment.  And its something  our service doesnt  tend to interfere with as our 
adjudicator has already  pointed out. 
Aqua said it feels Mr P has benefited from the error it made. It said this is because if the 
payment arrangement hadnt been set up on 17 September 2018 Mr Ps account wouldve 
most likely been sold to a DCA with a default due to the arrears that had accrued by this 
date. So, it feels the payment  plan meant  adverse credit hasnt been recorded on Mr Ps 
credit file. I understand  what Aqua has said here but I still think  it shouldnt  have sold Mr Ps 
account because  it should have adhered to the agreement it made with him.  
I recognise that Mr P has been inconvenienced and caused distress  by this experience. And 
I can appreciate the time it has taken him to bring  this complaint to our service and to the 
attention of Aqua. To reflect what happened  I think Aqua should pay Mr P the £150  
compensation our adjudicator recommended to resolve his complaint. Im satisfied that this 
is a reasonable  amount, which is in line with our approach in similar  scenarios.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd (T/A Aqua) should repurchase  
Mr Ps account and make arrangements with him for the repayment  of his debt. It should 
also pay him £150 compensation to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0971741