K820x#14complaint 
Mrs M complains that esure Insurance Limited hasnt fully repaired her car following it being 
damaged while parked.  
Mrs M is being  assisted in this complaint by her husband Mr M.
background
Mrs M had parked her Land Rover in June 2018. Whilst away  from the car it was hit and 
damaged. Mrs M submitted a claim and esure arranged a repair. The car was taken to 
esures approved  repairers which Ill call KV. But Mrs M wasnt  happy with the repair,  as 
there was a problem  with the engine which hadnt  been fixed. 
esure didnt  think this was due to the accident. But as Mr and Mrs M disagreed, it arranged 
an independent inspection with a business  which Ill call H. H arranged  for the car to be 
inspected at a Land Rover  dealership.  Land  Rover was unable  to conclude  the issue with the 
engine was due to the accident but noted the car needed a technical bullet in carried  out and 
the engine needed further inspection. However, Hs inspection did identify that the repair 
carried out by KV needed some rectification. So esure paid Mrs M £125 for the delays. KV 
then tried to return the car without carrying out the rectification works. And esure offered and 
additional £150 for what had happened to date.  
Mr and Mrs M were  still really unhappy,  and they had noticed an issue with the car locks, 
and so they were  worried about the security  of the car. esure arranged  another inspection 
and although it was informed the issue was due to wear and tear it offered to fix the locks as 
a goodwill gesture. It also offered to either pay 50% towards the costs of the engine  repair  
(£700) or waive  the excess (£500). Mr M opted  for £700 payment which  esure arranged  by 
cheque. 
During this time Mr and Mrs M had been  provided  with a courtesy car. But when it came to 
picking up their car, they didnt accept they had to pay the excess.  And because  they were  
still in dispute  with esure about whether their car had been  repaired they asked  us to look 
into this matter. 
Whilst we were carrying out our investigations, Mr and Mrs M borrowed the excess payment 
from family.  And they picked up their car. But on driving it home lots of smoke came from the 
engine. It transpired  that as a result of technical bulletin Mr and Mrs M should have been  
advised not to drive  it before the engine was fixed and it will now cost several thousand to 
repair. They  wanted  this looked into as a part of their complaint  which  esure agreed to. 
Our investigator concluded esure  had already fairly settled the complaint. She found  the car 
had been repaired  and although repairs werent carried out satisfactorily they have since  
been rectified and the compensation offered for those delays was fair and reasonable. She 
also found that esure didnt agree to waive the excess. And in relation to the problems with 
the engine, the investigator found  esure wasnt responsible for this  only for repairing the 
accident related  damage. 
Mr and Mrs M have  asked  for the matter to be reviewed. They believe esure  is responsible 
for what has happened with the car whilst it was in for repair  - that it is responsible for Land 
Rover not advising  the car shouldnt be driven  until it had been fixed. They have provided 
Ref: DRN06697542further reports, copies of legal correspondence and other evidence to show  what  is wrong 
with their car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  esure  
has already fairly settled  this matter. 
Although I have only summarised  the background and arguments  above, I would like to 
reassure both Mr and Mrs M and esure  that I have read and considered  everything in its 
entirety. 
The starting point  for this complaint is the contract between  Mrs M and esure  the policy  
document. The terms and conditions set out that: 
What is covered
For loss of damage to your car other than by fire, lightning, explosion,  theft or 
attempted theft,  we will:
Pay to have the damage repaired
Replace what is lost or damaged if tis is more cost-effective than repairing it; 
or
Settle your claim by a monetary payment
And the policy schedule shows that there  is a £250 excess  for damage and Mrs M had also 
opted for an additional voluntary damage excess of £250. This meant for any claim made  
under the policy  for damage, Mrs M was required to pay the first £500  of any repair  
regardless of who was at fault. 
Under the terms of the policy esure  arranged  a repair. It is disappointing that repair wasnt  
carried out adequately first time.  And I can see that when the repairs were supposed to be 
rectified KV tried to return the car without those being done. I can see esure recognised this 
wasnt good enough and offered Mrs M compensation for the delays in getting the car 
adequately repaired. Mr and Mrs M accepted the compensation which,  I understand, totalled 
£975.
Mr M says he was offered  50% of the repair costs for the engine  in addition  to waiving the 
excess. However, this isnt evident  from the calls I have listened to or esures records. As 
this is the first part of any claim  a policyholder  pays, and in the absence of persuasive 
evidence esure  did agree to waive it, I find no basis on which  to ask esure to reimburse that 
to Mr and Mrs M. 
I can see from the evidence provided  that Mr and Mrs M continue to have serious  problems 
with their car. And I accept this is causing them difficulties.  But I would only find esure 
needed to do something about it, if I found  the problem with the engine  was as a result of the 
accident and hadnt been repaired   or it had been  damaged by esures approved repairers.  
esure arranged  for an independent inspection when Mr M didnt agree with KVs inspection 
that the engine problems  werent as a result of accident. I find esure  was being fair when it 
arranged that. H, the independent inspector, arranged for the car to be inspected at a Land 
Rover dealership. This was completely separate from esures assessment of the damage  it 
was an independent inspection. Land Rover noted that there  was a small amount of smoke  
Ref: DRN06697543but the vehicle seemed ok  there  was a small boost leak from the inlet elbow oring and 
vacuum oring and noted the secondary  turbo was leaking  oil. It also noted the car required a 
tech bulletin carrying our for drain  tube modification.  Importantly,  it found  it was impossible to 
say the smoke was due to the accident. 
There is more than one report which concludes the problems with the engine werent as a 
result of the accident.  In the circumstances  I dont find esure is responsible  for any repairs to 
it. It is only required to carry out repairs in accordance with the policy terms and conditions; it 
is not responsible  for general maintenance  or other problems  with the car outside of the 
cover provided for under the terms of the policy. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M should have been  advised not to drive the car. But as that 
information wasnt passed to esure its hard to see how esure is responsible. Any acts or 
omissions by Land Rover,  when carrying out an independent inspection, are a matter  for Mr 
and Mrs M and Land Rover. I find no basis on which to require esure  become involved in 
that matter. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0669754