K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt  do enough to help him when he was the victim of 
a scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  On 18 February 2019  Mr M made an online payment 
of £200 using his Lloyds  debit card for an investment in crypto-currency with a business Ill 
refer to as B.
B contacted Mr M and asked him to provide further  information and documentation to prove 
his identity. Mr M was suspicious of this and made  further enquiries which included calling 
Action Fraud. He says Action Fraud advised  him not to send off identification documents to 
B as it could  be a scam.
Mr M says he contacted Lloyds the same day and asked that they stop his payment which  at 
that time was showing as pending in his account.  He says he was told that they couldnt 
stop a pending payment, but once it debited his account they would consider the matter.
Lloyds declined to raise a chargeback for Mr M. They said that as the merchant appeared to 
be willing  to provide their service  as long as he complied  with their terms  then this fell 
outside the chargeback scheme  rules.
Mr M complained and Lloyds maintained their position. Mr M said he feels like he has been 
treated poorly  by Lloyds and later chose  to close his account.  He thinks  they failed to 
support him when  he needed them. Ultimately, Mr M contacted  B and received  a refund of 
his £200. But Mr M is still unhappy  with Lloyds  and referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. As he disagrees, Mr M 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
On 26 June 2020 I issued a provisional  decision in which  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds, like all banks, have obligations to try to prevent  their customers  becoming victims of 
fraud or scams. In this case, the payment was made  using Mr Ms debit card and I dont 
think there was anything so unusual or out of character in relation to that transaction that 
means Lloyds ought to have intervened when (or before) the payment was made.
Once a payment is authorised, it might  not immediately leave the account  and could  remain  
as pending  for several days. But once  it has been promised Lloyds arent  able to stop the 
payment. So I dont think they were wrong when  they explained this.
I can understand why Mr M had concerns after speaking to Action  Fraud. And I think he was 
wise to be cautious in relation to online investments where scams unfortunately are more  
prevalent than ever.  Once the payment had debited Mr Ms account, the main way for Lloyds 
to seek a refund would be through considering  the chargeback scheme.
Ref: DRN06461202This isnt Lloyds scheme and they have  to follow the rules  set by the scheme provider. 
There isnt a right to a chargeback and Lloyds  arent obliged  to make  a chargeback request  
if they believe there is little chance of it being  successful.  Lloyds took the decision that a 
chargeback was unlikely to be successful  as B were still willing  to provide  a service, but 
Mr M (understandably)  wasnt willing to agree to the terms about sending  in proof of his 
identification. 
My role here is to decide if Lloyds acted reasonably  when making  that decision with the 
information they had at the time. I think they did and Ill explain why. Generally speaking,  the 
chargeback scheme  isnt intended to be the first port of call for a dispute  between a 
merchant and a customer. So stepping back and looking at the circumstances as a whole, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds not to raise a chargeback until Mr M had first tried 
to resolve things with B. 
I understand Mr M feels this put him in a difficult position. Action  Fraud  had cautioned 
against further contact with B. Yet Lloyds were  saying he would need to pursue this with B. 
But Lloyds made clear in their complaint  response  that they didnt think  Mr M should share 
sensitive documents  with B. And I dont think Lloyds asking Mr M to seek  a refund  from B in 
the first instance was unreasonable  and I havent seen evidence to support  that they 
provided incorrect information or poor service.
Ultimately, and with the benefit of hindsight, Mr M managed  to contact B who went on to 
refund him the £200. Had B declined this and if Mr M had let them know, I would have 
expected Lloyds to have  reconsidered their decision about a chargeback.  But fortunately,  it 
didnt come to this as Mr M received his money back from B. 
I know Mr M feels he has been  treated  poorly  and was put to significant trouble and upset in 
relation to this matter.  I dont doubt  his sincerity and I can quite understand why this has 
been a difficult  time for him. But I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong, so I cant fairly ask 
them to compensate him in these circumstances. Lloyds were Mr Ms bank  and whilst I 
would expect them to provide reasonable assistance to him, I dont  think this would extend to 
acting as his representative in a dispute  with B. 
I understand that Mr M chose to close his account  with Lloyds and he says this caused him a 
lot of work  to switch  accounts and deal with direct debits etc. Closing the account  was a 
decision Mr M was entitled to make, but I dont  think Lloyds are responsible for the 
consequences of his decision to do so. 
Overall, I dont  think Lloyds have treated Mr M unfairly, so Im not intending  to uphold this 
complaint.
Mr M acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but had nothing further to add. Lloyds 
didnt respond  to my provisional decision. Now both parties have  had the opportunity to 
comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided anything further for my consideration  I see no reason to deviate 
from the outcome  I explained in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN06461203my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0646120