K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs S complain  about how Sabre Insurance  Company  Limited  handled a claim 
made on their commercial motor insurance  policy. They want  £5,000 compensation for their 
losses and upset.
background
Mr B had an accident in their van and they made a claim to Sabre. Their van was taken to a 
repairing garage. But it was deemed  to be beyond economical repair a week later.  Mr B and 
Mrs S then had to return their courtesy  car and they had to hire a replacement  and then buy 
a new van. Mr B and Mrs S said they thought the garage had further damaged  their van and 
this had led to it being deemed  a total loss. They wanted compensation for the damage to 
their van, the costs  of a hire car and buying  a new van, and for their trouble and upset.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  there 
was evidence that the disputed damage to the van was pre-existing. She thought  the van 
would have been deemed a total loss in any case.  She thought Sabre was entitled to ask for 
the hire car to be returned. And so she didnt think it was responsible  for the hire costs. And 
she thought Mrs S had accepted Sabres settlement offer. So she didnt think it was 
responsible for the cost of their new van or needed  to pay any compensation.
Mrs S and Mr B replied  that they thought the complaint should  have  been  made  against  the 
approved garage, not Sabre. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that losing their van caused Mrs S and Mr B financial difficulties. I can also 
see that they are unhappy with the repairing  garage.  But Im unable to uphold their 
complaint. Ill now explain  why I think this. 
Mrs S and Mr B are unhappy with the service provided by the approved garage.  But we cant 
consider a complaint brought against  the garage directly  as its not a regulated service. The 
garage provided its service under their motor insurance policy. In this case, the policys  
underwriter, Sabre, is responsible for the service provided by the garage under the claim. So 
I will consider  Mr B and Mrs Ss complaint against  Sabre.  
Mr B and Mrs S said there was new damage to their van caused by the garage.  They  were  
adamant that it wasnt present when  the van was taken to the repairers. Sabre said 
photographs taken  four days  after the van was taken to the garage  showed this damage  
which Mr B noticed a further  five days later. But Mr B and Mrs S thought the van could have 
been damaged  in the first four days. They asked why the van hadnt been  photographed on 
arrival. 
I havent been provided with any explanation  about why the van wasnt photographed when 
it was first taken to the repairing  garage. I can see that Sabre instructed an independent 
engineer to give a view on the disputed  damage. I think thats  a reasonable approach  as its 
what Id require in similar disputes. 
Ref: DRN09863482This concluded that some of the damage  (missing wipers and stone chips) was pre-existing 
but there wasnt enough evidence to say how the light scratches  Mr B had identified had 
occurred. So I think theres  evidence that some  of the damage was pre-existing. But I dont 
have evidence to show that the garage caused the scratches on the van. And so I cant  say 
that Sabre needs to pay any compensation  for this. 
But I think if it had then this didnt cause any loss to Mrs S and Mr B. This is because the 
engineers assessment of the repairs following the accident didnt take into account this 
damage. So the van was deemed to be beyond economical repair in any case and there 
were no deductions  made  for any pre-existing damage.  
Mrs S said she was pressured into accepting Sabres settlement offer for their van. She said 
that they had no option  but to buy a new van as they couldnt  cancel  their policy  because  of 
the claim.  I can understand that this must have been a stressful time for Mrs S and Mr B. 
They thought their van was to be repaired and instead it was deemed a total loss. But I can 
see records of phone  conversations  and emails  between the parties  to clarify the settlement 
offer and the deduction if salvage was to be retained. So I think Sabre gave Mrs S and Mr B 
reasonable information about the settlement.  I havent seen  anything  untoward in this. 
Mrs S and Mr B were  unhappy that they had to return their courtesy car when their van was 
deemed to be a total loss. I can see that this caused them  difficulties with their business. But 
their policy only provided  a courtesy  car whilst theirs was being repaired by an approved 
repairer. When their van was deemed  a total loss, they were required to return  the courtesy 
car. So I cant say that Sabre acted unfairly here.
Mrs S and Mr B accepted  Sabres settlement for the total loss of their van and didnt wish to 
retain the salvage. Theyd made a claim on the policy so they still needed to pay the 
premiums. I think  this is standard  industry  practice but they had the option of putting a 
replacement vehicle on the policy. They hired  a car at some  cost and then bought  a 
replacement. Mrs S said they felt pressured to do this. But I think  these events were a 
consequence of their unfortunate accident, not of Sabres handling of their claim. So I cant  
see that Sabre  is liable  for these costs or needs to pay them  any compensation for this. 
I can understand that this was a stressful time for Mrs S and Mr B. They  explained that they 
had to hire a car to transport a relative.  And then they had the burden  of replacing their van 
which they could  ill-afford. But I think Sabre dealt with their claim fairly and reasonably and 
according to the policy terms and conditions. So I dont  require  it to pay them any 
compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0986348