K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold Miss D payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  25 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned in the documents at the time, and that it 
would have been presented as a choice. And I dont have strong  evidence  to show that 
HSBC didnt make clear the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that Miss D freely  
chose to take it.
HSBC says it doesnt know if it recommended the PPI to Miss D. If it did recommend the 
PPI, it had a higher standard to reach during  the sales  process   it had to make sure the PPI 
was suitable for Miss Ds particular circumstances. But, even if HSBC did recommend the 
PPI, it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable one, based  on 
what Ive seen of Miss Ds situation at the time. Its likely Miss D was eligible for the policy.  
And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Miss D received any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it seems  Miss D didnt have savings to fall back on. 
So the PPI would have put Miss D in a more secure position, if shed eventually lost income  
due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been  told anything  to suggest she 
couldnt afford the PPI when she took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially  
Ref: DRN05538992useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. It would then be up to Miss D to decide  
whether she wanted  to accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well HSBC explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Miss D took the PPI.
Its possible HSBC didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Miss D would have been affected by any of these. And shed be paying  for it 
monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further cost if her situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0553899