K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr J and Ms W say Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr J and Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing, but I will explain the 
reasons for my decision below. 
Mr J and Ms W say that they were  told that they had to take out MPPI in order  to get their 
mortgage. I cant know what was said at the time, and Mr J and Ms W havent said much 
about this either. So I have  to base my decision on the information I do have. 
BoS has provided paperwork from the time that Mr J and Ms W applied  for their mortgage - a 
mortgage application form, and a separate MPPI application. I can see that on the mortgage 
application, the MPPI is presented as optional  with two clear  and equally prominent  
choices to take MPPI, or to decline  it. It also doesnt  suggest that an application including 
MPPI would be looked on more  favourably. The MPPI has been  selected, and Mr J and 
Ms W have  both signed the application. The MPPI application  also presents the policy  as 
optional, and has again been  signed  by Mr J and Ms W. Had Mr J and Ms W been  told that 
the policy wasnt optional,  I think that they wouldve questioned this at the time they 
completed the paperwork. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think BoS made it clear that Mr J and Ms W didnt  have 
to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they 
dont remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr J and Ms W so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI  cover 
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr J and Ms W about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think they chose  to take it out - it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the MPPI  to Mr J and Ms W.
Ive thought about everything Mr J and Ms W has said - including what Ms W has said about 
a claim not being  paid on the policy, and that another complaint had been upheld.  But Im 
only considering  this policy in my decision,  so I cant comment on any other complaints.
Im also sorry  to hear that Ms W became unwell  and I understand that this mustve been a 
very difficult time for her. However,  this doesnt mean that the policy was mis-sold when it 
Ref: DRN05212272was first taken out. If Ms W feels that a mistake  was made when the claim was declined,  she 
may wish to contact the underwriters of the policy.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0521227