K821x#15complaint
Mr P says APFIN LTD, trading as cashasap.co.uk (APFIN), irresponsibly lent to him. He 
says the lending had a serious impact on his life and he is still paying  back family and friends 
who lent to him to repay the borrowing.
background
This complaint is about three short-term loans APFIN provided to Mr P between November 
and December 2017. Mr Ps borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 07/11/2017 10/11/2017 1 £150.00
2 23/11/2017 12/12/2017 3 £325.00
3 19/12/2017 04/01/2018 3 £325.00
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint because she didn't think  any of the loans should 
have been given as Mr P already had outstanding  loans with three  other short-term lenders.  
APFIN disagreed and the complaint was passed to me to decide in my role as ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
APFIN needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that APFIN  should  fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN03149252There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that APFIN was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, the credit checks that APFIN carried  out  for which it has 
given us its records  show  that Mr P was already using  other  short-term  lenders when he 
started borrowing  with APFIN.  For loan one he had three other short-term loans outstanding. 
And his credit checks for loan one show that he had opened five new account in the previous 
six months and had had 36 credit  checks on his account in the last 12 months. These  
numbers increased  for loans two and three. By loan three Mr P had opened  12 new 
accounts in the last six months and had 39 credit checks in the previous 12 months. 
APFIN was aware of this information  and I think the fact that Mr P had several  loans running 
concurrently, and taken within such a short time period  as evidenced by the credit reports, 
would have suggested he was having  problems with managing his finances. 
APFIN has said that credit approval  is a function of affordability for the consumer and a 
credit risk for the lender.  And that by using different lenders Mr P increased his chances  of 
approval for borrowing by reducing his credit risk to any particular lender. I agree  that by 
spreading his borrowings Mr P was less of a credit  risk to any particular lender but it is 
questionable whether the total borrowings were affordable to him  which  APFIN has said is 
necessary for credit approval.
Equally, I would argue that by using different short-term lending  facilities,  Mr P was in effect, 
juggling his finances by using credit  from one lender to pay off another. Mr P paid about half 
of his income to finance his credit. And as I have said above,  just because a loan repayment 
might be affordable on a pounds and pence basis  which  is what APFIN has argued   this 
doesnt necessarily  mean  the borrowing is sustainable. And this proved  to be the case for 
Mr P according to his testimony. 
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loans one to three  and APFIN 
should put things right.
putting things right  what APFIN needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans one to three;
Ref: DRN03149253pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans one to three from Mr Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires APFIN to take off tax from this interest. APFIN must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint. APFIN LTD should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
 ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314925