K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that they were sold a travel insurance  policy  that was 
incorrect as it didnt  cover trips to the USA. They  then had this policy refunded and they 
bought a second policy that did cover trips to the USA.
The full name  of the underwriters of this insurance  are Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. Ill refer to them as Mapfre in my decision. 
Mr and Mrs W bought this policy from a different business, who Ill refer to as B1 in my 
decision
Mr and Mrs W feel that they should have been sold a Gold policy  that did cover  trips 
including to the USA for the same  price as they originally paid for the incorrect Silver policy. 
background 
Mr and Mrs W purchased  a travel insurance  policy during a phone  call on 4 March 2019. 
This policy cost £969.52.
Mr and Mrs W received  their policy documentation and realised that the policy only covered 
them for trips to Europe. They contacted B1 on 5 March  2019 to cancel the policy  theyd 
bought and they bought a new policy that covered them for trips including USA as they were 
due to travel  there on holiday the next day - 6 March 2019.  
In recognition of their error, as a gesture of goodwill, B1 gave Mr and Mrs W a discount on 
their new policy. Mr and Mrs W paid for the new policy with a credit card and the cost of the 
first policy was refunded.  B1 also offered Mr and Mrs W £75 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
B1 accepted that their adviser made an error  during the initial telephone call resulting in a 
policy being sold that didnt cover Mr and Mrs W for what  they expected. 
Mr and Mrs W complained initially to B1 but were unhappy with their response  so they 
referred their complaint  to our Service. As outlined above, Ill be referring  to the business  as 
Mapfre who are the policy underwriter in the rest of my decision. 
Our investigator found that:
although Mr and Mrs W wanted the new policy at the price they paid for the first 
policy, they felt that wouldnt  be a fair outcome because some information  which  
Mr and Mrs W had given the adviser about their health hadnt been factored into the 
price of the premium;
it wouldnt be fair for Mr and Mrs W to gain additional benefit without paying the 
higher premium; and
Mapfre should pay £150 compensation in total for the trouble and upset  their error 
caused Mr and Mrs W. 
Taking the discount into consideration theyd already applied,  our investigator felt a further 
£88 in compensation was fair. 
Ref: DRN04955802Mapfre accepted  our investigators  recommendations. Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the 
investigators recommendations, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that the customer  adviser made  an error when Mr and Mrs W took out the 
first policy.  Ill be deciding  what I think is a fair and reasonable  resolution to the complaint 
because of the impact  of the error on Mr and Mrs W. 
The cost of the second policy was more expensive than the first. Mapfre  have provided a 
summary breakdown  of the difference in cost between the two policies. Mapfre have said the 
reason for this was because of the destination  covered  and some  medical  information  that 
hadnt been taken into proper consideration by their adviser when the first policy  was sold. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, it seems reasonable to assume  that if Mr and Mrs W had 
been sold the correct policy on 4 March  2019 the policy would have been more  expensive 
than the £969.52 they paid. However  as they realised the mistake  that had been  made  the 
day before  they were  due to travel, they didnt have a great deal of time to shop around to 
find a cheaper quote. 
The error was realised by Mr and Mrs W very close to their holiday  at a time when they likely 
would have been busy preparing and planning  on relaxing on their holiday. So I think Mapfre  
needs to compensate Mr and Mrs W for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ive noted what  Mr and Mrs W have said about  being unhappy that they had to pay the full 
price for the second policy on their credit  card whilst they waited for the first policy to be 
refunded. Mapfre have said that for accounting purposes they had to they needed to refund 
the initial cost and then charge separately  for the second policy.  But theyve agreed to pay 
8% interest on the difference  for the period where  two premiums were taken. 
Mr and Mrs W have  also complained that the second  policy  cost more  compared to a 
different 12 month travel insurance policy theyd bought to cover  them  for September  2017 
until September 2018. 
But its worth  pointing  out that their personal  circumstances  may have been  different and the 
more expensive policy was taken out over 18 months after the cheaper policy.  The price  of a 
travel insurance policy is influenced by a wide range of underwriting  and also wider  market 
factors. 
However as Ive acknowledged already, when Mr and Mrs W were given the price  for the 
correct policy they were very close to travelling so they didnt have a great deal of time to 
shop around for a cheaper quote. 
what Mapfre  needs to do
I think that the £150 figure is fair and reasonable to recognise the trouble and upset thats 
been caused. 
Ref: DRN04955803As a discount was already applied  to the cost of the second  policy,  Mapfre still needs 
to pay Mr and Mrs W £88 - which will bring  the total to £150. 
This isnt to refund the difference between the cost of the two policies, but to 
compensate Mr and Mrs W for the trouble and upset that theyve experienced. 
Mapfre will also refund 8% interest* on the difference for the period where two 
premiums were  taken. 
*If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should  also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask 
for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A should do what Ive set out above   that is pay Mr and 
Mrs W £88 and refund 8% interest on the period where two policy  premiums were  taken. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0495580