K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about the way Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has 
handled her claim for damage to her caravan  under her caravan insurance policy. She 
is represented by her son  Mr D  who also did a lot of the communication on the claim 
on her behalf.
background
Mrs D made  a claim for damage to her caravan after strong winds ripped off two 
skylights and rain water got in and damaged the fittings and contents.
RSA appointed a claim  handling agent, who Ill refer to as LS, to handle  the claim on its 
behalf. A local repairer replaced the skylights. And LS arranged  for another  repairer to 
provide an estimate  to repair  the internal damage. There was a considerable delay after 
this. And from what I can see from RSAs file notes,  it looks  like this was mainly because 
the repairer didnt  provide samples of the materials  it was going to use to repair  the 
caravan. Mrs D wanted these to alleviate  some concerns she had about the standard of 
materials it intended to use and whether theyd match the original fittings. The problem was 
that the repairer wouldnt provide the samples until Mrs D had signed the mandate  to give 
the go ahead for it to do the repairs. But Mrs D didnt want to sign the mandate until shed 
seen the materials  the repairer  was going  to use. She was also concerned that the mandate 
carried a disclaimer absolving RSA of any responsibility for the repairs.
An agreement couldnt be reached between LS, RSA, Mr D and Mrs D on the way forward 
and RSA made a cash offer in November  2017, which  appears  to have been based on the 
estimate LSs appointed  repairer had provided of £5,400 less VAT,  plus an extra  £375 
towards repairing  a ceiling  panel,  less the policy excess. This was despite  the fact Mrs D 
had already paid the policy excess up front. Mr D asked for a breakdown  of costs, which 
RSA couldnt or wouldnt  provide and this meant  Mr D and Mrs D werent confident  the 
amount was enough to cover the cost of the repairs or that the repairer would do an 
adequate job.
Eventually the repairer said they couldnt complete  the repair and LS involved another 
repairer, but couldnt reach an agreement with Mr D or Mrs D on the repairs going 
ahead. And it ultimately turned out the other  repairer couldnt do the repairs either.
In November 2018 Mr D provided an estimate  for all the work required from another  
repairer hed chosen,  plus an estimate  to replace the damaged  contents.  RSA considered 
this and agreed to pay part of this amount in cash to replace some items  and the balance  
to the repairer  once  it had completed the repairs. RSA also included an amount for the 
replacement of the skylights less the policy excess in the offer, despite the fact it had 
intended to pay the full amount to the repairer  who did this soon after it had replaced  them.  
RSA also agreed to pay something to replace a damaged ceiling board and wall board in 
the bedroom. It had originally  said this damage was caused  by faulty seals,  but it finally  
accepted it was caused by water getting in through the missing skylights.
Mr D and Mrs D werent  happy with the approach  taken by RSA or the way the claim had 
been handled and complained about it. RSA issued its final response letter  in January 
2019. As Mr D and Mrs D werent  happy  with RSAs response they complained to us. One 
of our investigators explained  why she thought RSA had handled Mrs Ds claim fairly and 
Ref: DRN06362482that  in view of this  she didnt think Mrs Ds complaint  should  be upheld.
Mr D and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
Mr D has explained how the original cash settlement wasnt  acceptable, as it was based on 
an estimate allowing  for reclaimed parts and Mrs D had never been provided  with a 
detailed breakdown of costs.  In addition, Mrs D had never been provided with samples  of 
materials the repairer was going  to use, despite numerous requests for these.  And they 
were concerned the materials wouldnt  match  the existing ones in the caravan.  They  were 
also concerned  about  the disclaimer in the mandate  Mrs D had been asked to sign and the 
lack of written assurances. They were especially concerned because of the seemingly  
weak financial position of the first repairer.  There was also a concern about  the 
replacement cost of the carpet and the unexplained deduction of VAT in the cash  offer.
In summary,  Mr D and Mrs D felt the vast majority  of the delay on the claim was down to 
RSA and LS. Finally,  Mr D pointed  out the delay to the repairs  to the caravan cost Mrs D a 
significant amount  in rental income; not from bookings she had, but from bookings  she 
would have had, but for the delay  in the repairs. And he just doesnt  feel the way RSA has 
handled the claim and what is has offered is fair and reasonable.
Having reviewed the evidence from both RSA,  Mr D and Mrs D I felt it would be useful to 
discuss Mr Ds and Mrs Ds concerns  with them to help me understand the impact and 
check on some issues. They let me know that it was LS who appointed the repairer  who 
provided the first estimate for internal repairs.  They  said when its representative came to 
look at the caravan he mentioned he had an Aladdins cave of caravan  parts  from 
salvaged caravans. And also that the repairer who replaced the skylights had said it would 
not be possible to match some of fixtures and fittings in the caravan. These two things 
caused Mr D and Mrs D some  concern  and it was why they asked for the samples, which  
were never provided.
Mr D also explained that RSA eventually agreed  to cover the cost of the repairs needed in 
the bedroom, despite originally saying this wasnt caused by water coming in while the 
skylights were  missing.  And it agreed £645.72 to replace one ceiling panel and one wall 
panel. Mr D said that when he pointed out that these could not be matched  to the existing 
ones, RSA quoted the matching sets clause in Mrs Ds policy  to justify its decision not to 
pay more.
Mr D and Mrs D also explained that they just wanted  an outcome to this complaint which  
allowed Mrs D to get the caravan repaired and reflected the distress  and inconvenience 
she had experienced over a long period. Mr D explained Mrs D could provide bank 
statements to show the rental income she probably lost, but in view of how protracted  the 
matter had become,  Mrs D said she was happy  for me to decide  the fair and reasonable 
outcome to her complaint  based on the evidence I had already.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 April 2020. In my provisional findings  I said the 
following:
I think it is worth me starting  by setting out what the most relevant parts of policy 
wording say.
Ref: DRN06362483Section  1a  The Structure and Contents & Section 1b  Personal Possessions
 What is covered
We will pay for Damage to Your Structure, Contents and Personal Possessions by any 
insured cause, occurring during the Period of Insurance .
How We will Settle You Claim
We will pay in cash the amount of the Damage or We may repair, reinstate or replace
Damaged property
If repair is carried out, We will pay the cost of repair without deduction for wear and tear. If 
parts or accessories  are found to be obsolete  or unobtainable, We may use parts and 
accessories which  are not supplied by the manufacturer.  Alternatively We may use parts  
of a similar type and quality to the parts We are replacing...
We will not pay for the cost of replacing, repairing or changing any undamaged  items 
or parts of items forming part of a set, suite, carpet  or other items of common
nature, colour,  design or use. This applies if the other items can still be used and the
Damage only affects one part of the item.
This means  the damage caused to the skylights is covered by Mrs Ds policy  and so is any 
internal damaged caused by rainwater  entering  the caravan as a result of this. It also 
means RSA should  be paying for the cost of repairs. And I think it is good  industry  practice 
to use new parts where possible  and I would not expect parts salvaged from damaged 
caravans to be used.
The rules  under which insurance  companies have to operate state  that RSA must  handle 
claims promptly and fairly  and provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a 
claim. And, I think I should make it clear at the start of my findings that I dont think RSA 
has met these obligations. I appreciate some of the delay on this claim has been due to 
difficulties in communicating  with Mr D and Mrs D, but I agree with Mr D that the majority  of 
the delay appears  to be down to RSA and LS not being proactive enough and not properly 
addressing concerns and issues Mr D and Mrs D had raised.
Its difficult for me to get a full picture of how the claim was handled,  as I dont  have 
access to LSs handling notes or correspondence  between it and Mr D and Mrs D. But, I 
think I can see enough from RSAs handling notes and communications  to see that it and 
LS didnt do enough to move the claim along.  Ive not gone  into the timeline in detail in 
this decision, but instead I have highlighted the things I think RSA got wrong,  which  led to 
significant and unreasonable  delays.
I can see why Mrs D was concerned about signing  the mandate for the first repairer 
appointed to carry out the internal repairs needed.  It had a disclaimer  on it, which  left Mrs 
D responsible for any problems, despite  LS choosing the repairer. And I think this was 
inappropriate and unreasonable.  I know RSA decided  to pay the cost of repair,  but having 
selected the repairer, as opposed to asking Mrs D to choose one and obtain an estimate, I 
dont think Mrs D could reasonably be expected to accept full responsibility  for anything 
that went wrong. And Mr D raised reasonable concerns about the financial stability  of the 
contractor, which RSA dismissed as something they didnt even consider, despite 
choosing the repairer.  And I think Mrs D was perfectly entitled to see samples of the 
Ref: DRN06362484materials the repairer planned to use, in view of what  its representative had said when he 
visited the caravan.  And I think LS should  have  done  more  to get the repairer  it had 
chosen to provide these without the need  for Mrs D to sign the mandate for the works to 
go ahead. So I completely  understand  why Mrs D refused to sign the mandate  and wanted 
the samples. And the fact RSA didnt arrange samples  and instead  insisted she did so 
before she could see them delayed matters considerably.
I dont think the RSAs claim handler  can really have been  sure his original cash  offer was 
appropriate. He didnt have a detailed  breakdown  of costs. And  despite Mr D raising 
understandable concerns about materials  he never checked  up on this. He said he was 
satisfied the estimate  from the repairer LS had arranged  was appropriate, but I cant  see 
how he can have been sure of this without  a detailed costs  breakdown  and full details of 
what materials the repairer was going to use. He also inexplicably deducted  VAT when  
making his cash offer.  This clearly  wasnt appropriate, as Mrs D would have to pay VAT. 
And I think doing this without any sort of explanation caused confusion. Also  deducting  
the excess when  Mrs D had already  paid this up front, just confused the matter further. I 
think this  along with the lack of detailed costings  and a failure by RSA to properly address 
Mr Ds justified concerns about materials and whether  they would match, made  it 
unreasonable to expect  Mr D and Mrs D to accept the offer in full and final settlement. And 
 again this caused an unnecessary delay.
There was of course the option for RSA to suggest Mrs D made  a complaint at this point, 
which could be reviewed  under its complaint handling process  and then referred to us if 
needed. And, in doing so, RSA could  have suggested Mrs D took the cash offer without  
prejudicing her right to complain.  This may have allowed her to get the majority of the 
repairs carried out and the caravan functional. But this option was never  put forward and 
instead RSA quoted  the claims settlement terms in the policy and allowed a stalemate to 
develop.
And Im also concerned  by RSAs failure to recognise there  may have  been  a need to 
adopt our well established approach when there is a possible loss of match  as a result  of a 
repair. This would  have involved thinking about a fair and reasonable way of 
compensating Mrs D for any loss of match to other parts of sets. In fact RSA never really 
established whether there would be a loss of match, as it doesnt look like it ever checked  
whether the repairer LS had arranged could make  sure items matched once theyd been 
repaired.
When eventually in November 2018  Mr D put forward  a full estimate for the repairs 
(although this only allowed for one ceiling board and one wall board in the bedroom) I think 
RSAs claim handler confused things further. This is because he made a cash offer for part 
of this amount,  plus the cost of the replacement of the skylights  after Mrs D had paid her 
excess up front, without explaining the invoice for the skylights had never been paid. He 
also deducted the excess again from the amount due for this when Mrs D had already  paid 
it up front to LS. If she was going to have to settle  this invoice in full herself, deducting the 
excess meant shed be £75 out of pocket, unless the excess  had been passed on to the 
repairer, which it doesnt look like it had.
From what  Mr D has said RSA also relied  on the clause on matching items  when  deciding  
to only offer what was in the estimate for the wall board and ceiling in the bedroom. Wall 
and ceiling covering boards in caravans are expensive to replace, and I can see why RSA 
views them as a set. But I dont  think it was reasonable for RSA to limit the payment to 
cover the replacement of two damaged  panels, when Mr D had explained that the new 
Ref: DRN06362485panels wouldnt match  the rest of the panels in the same room. I think if panels  could not be 
found to match the originals then RSA needed to come  up with some  other  reasonable 
alternative method  of repair  or make  an offer to compensate Mrs D for the loss of match.  
This would have been in line with our normal approach and what I consider to be good  
industry practice. But it did neither.
Also, Mr D has told us that when  the repairer  hed found said he could no longer carry 
out the repairs and asked  RSA for a full cash in lieu of repairs  settlement, RSA refused. 
And  bearing in mind the time that had passed and the difficulties Mr D and Mrs D had 
faced, I consider this approach was inflexible and unreasonable.
Overall, I think these  issues and, from what I can tell from RSAs  notes, a failure by RSA 
and LS to keep  control of the claim and properly address Mr D and Mrs Ds concerns  led to 
the vast majority of the delay on it. And  despite having the opportunity to make a realistic 
and acceptable  cash in lieu of repairs offer late in 2018 - RSA made an offer that was 
confusing and not properly explained.  And it was too inflexible when  Mr D explained why he 
would like a full cash in lieu settlement.  And this then led to a complaint,  which  eventually 
came to us.
In view of all this, especially the length  of time that has passed, I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint now if for RSA to make  a full cash  in lieu payment 
for the cost of the repairs  to Mrs Ds caravan, which will give her the opportunity  to get the 
repairs completed in her own time and using a contractor that suits her and she feels she 
can trust.  Although, she will of course  be fully responsible for the contractor concerned. 
And I think this cash amount should  be based on the estimate Mr D obtained in November 
2018. This is because  RSA was happy with this estimate and it seems  reasonable  for the 
work required. I appreciate it is now over a year later and the repairer  is no longer 
available, but I dont think costs will have gone up much, if at all, in this period.
However, I think RSA needs to pay something to reflect the fact the new panels in the 
bedroom wont match. My approach  in this situation on whats fair and reasonable depends 
on how bad the loss of match will be. And I think it could  well be significant, as it is panels 
on the same  wall and ceiling that wont match. Although, its not really clear to me how 
close to the original panels the replacements would be. In view of this, I think a payment of 
50% of the cost of replacing the rest of the panels is appropriate. The cost of replacing two 
panels is £645.72. There are 10 panels  in the bedroom according to Mr D. So Ive 
estimated the cost of replacing them all at £3,225 (5 x £645). This means it would be a 
further £2,580 to replace  remaining eight panels. So I think RSA should  pay a further  
£1,290 towards  the cost of replacing these, as compensation for the loss of match.
This means  I think  the overall cash amount its fair and reasonable for RSA to pay to 
settle Mrs Ds claim is £9,754. Thats the estimates supplied by Mr D in November 2018 
rounded down to £8,464, plus £1,290. This allows £500 for the fridge  and 
bookcase/cupboard as RSA has said there is a £500 contents  limit in the policy. I have 
not seen a document showing this, although  there  is a note in RSAs claims notes 
referring to an equipment  limit of £500.  But I am willing to accept the limit applies and Mr 
D and Mrs D have not disputed this. And RSA should settle the invoice for the 
replacement of the skylights directly with the repairer in full if its not done so already.
I have also thought carefully  about how best to compensate Mrs D for the income  she has 
most likely lost as a result of not being able to rent the caravan out and any inconvenience 
she has experienced because of this. I appreciate her policy only provides cover  for rental  
Ref: DRN06362486income she lost from people whod already booked when the damage occurred. But this 
loss flows from RSAs  poor handling  of the claim,  so I dont think  the policy wording is 
relevant.
However, Mrs D hasnt  provided documentary evidence to show  what shed most likely 
have received. And understandably, at this late stage, shed rather not provide  this. So, I 
think the fair and reasonable  way to address this issue is for me to make an award  for 
distress and inconvenience that reflects all the upset and worry the whole episode  has 
caused Mrs D, along with the hassle  of the many  telephone calls and journeys that should 
not have been necessary. Its obviously difficult to put a figure on this, but I think  it should 
be a significant  amount,  as the level of distress and inconvenience was clearly very 
significant for Mrs D. But I should say, to be fair to RSA, that it did at least  respond quickly 
to most communications from Mr D and Mrs D, albeit not always  with the answer Id have 
expected.
So overall, I think compensation  for distress  and inconvenience of £750 is appropriate. 
This is because I think RSA is responsible for allowing Mrs Ds claim to become so 
protracted when  it should have been  settled fairly quickly. And this long running issue  has 
worried Mrs D and cost her a great  deal of emotional energy and caused  her to have to 
worry about funding  her caravan. And shes also lost the enjoyment of the caravan for this 
considerable period.
Mrs D responded to say she agreed with my provisional  decision.  RSA has responded 
and raised a number  of points which Ive set out below:
It thinks what happened  on the claim is well documented  and this shows Mr D and Mrs 
D didnt respond  to attempts to contact  them to resolve their concerns and offer 
solutions. It shouldnt  make any difference that I dont  have  LSs notes, as RSAs claim 
notes and the timeline provides  a full breakdown of both files. 
Both the contractors LS involved said they could get as close  as possible in terms of 
matching the materials they would use to the existing ones, but it was unreasonable to 
expect them to go out of their way to bring samples to Mrs D at their own time and 
expense when Mrs D might not have proceeded with the works. 
The caravan  is a 2002 model and new replacement parts  are just not available. And 
the first contractor said he had spares that were  a very close  match. And the policy 
wording says if parts are obsolete or unobtainable, RSA may use parts and 
accessories not supplied by the manufacturer. This was explained to Mr D and Mrs D 
multiple times but they refused to accept  it. 
Mr D wouldnt  accept the limitations of the policy and wanted a whole new kitchen  as 
RSA couldnt get matching parts to replace the damaged ones.
RSA always deducts VAT from cash offers, as it does  not pay this on works which  
have not been carried out. 
The case  handler didnt need  to get a full breakdown of every  individual  cost for every 
item, as the overall cost was in line with what RSA would expect for this type of repair.  
Ref: DRN06362487RSA did deduct  the excess despite  the fact Mrs D had already paid this to the 
company that fixed the skylights. But this was corrected on all cash  offers  following  
this. 
Mr D and Mrs D received  numerous  offers through the life of the claim. But they just 
never accepted  any of them  and would only accept a cash settlement. So, RSAs  case  
handler wasnt inflexible, it was just Mrs D and Mr D wouldnt  accept the numerous  
offers put forward. 
It doesnt agree with my suggested  approach to the fact that it isnt possible to match  
the replacement  panels in the bedroom, as this is a caravan insurance policy and 
claims are not handled in the same way as under a home  insurance policy. And RSA 
is worried my approach here will set a precedent. 
The £500 limit for contents is clearly outlined in the policy  document provided. 
It doesnt agree it should pay compensation for the fact that Mrs D may have lost 
some bookings  due to delays. It thinks the delays and problems with this claim are 
down to Mr D and Mrs D deliberately causing  delays and then claiming RSA was at 
fault. Mr D regularly  failed to respond or even acknowledge emails, calls and offers of 
help sometimes for months  at a time. RSA is concerned Mr D had no intention  of 
proceeding with any repairs  and his main aim was to gain as much  financial reward  as 
possible. Hence  the reason the case handler  wanted repairs  to be carried out before 
RSA would release  payment. 
It feels the £750 in compensation Ive suggested is excessive when a significant 
element of the delays were caused  by the customer or have occurred while the 
complaint has been with us. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what RSA has said in response to my provisional decision, but I have  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable based on my view of what happened.  And it remains my 
view for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision that RSA and  particularly LS - 
werent proactive  enough and did cause a lot of the delays  on this case. I appreciate     Mr 
D and Mrs D didnt always respond quickly to emails, but I do think  some of the offers  
made were confusing and not properly explained. And  while  RSA view Mr Ds refusal  to 
accept some of the offers as him being  unreasonable, I can understand his concerns 
about the contractors LS had suggested and how good a job they would do. And RSA 
never made it clear  Mrs D could accept  an offer without prejudice and still make  a 
complaint. 
I accept it was not possible to match materials due to the age of the caravan,  but I dont 
agree it was unreasonable for Mrs D to want to see samples before signing to agree to the 
work going ahead. And I still dont  think it is reasonable for an insurer to use salvaged  
parts. The policy says manufacturer parts may not be used, but it doesnt referred to 
salvaged parts. And I think its good  practice to use new parts  where possible. 
And I dont  think it was appropriate to expect Mrs D to sign an agreement  that said RSA 
werent responsible  for the actions of the contractors its agent had appointed. Having 
chosen the contractor it was for RSA or LS to make  sure Mrs D was happy with the works 
proposed and the materials that would be used before she agreed  to the work starting. 
And RSA needed  to take responsibility for the work  carried out by its chosen contractor. 
Ref: DRN06362488If parts of the kitchen that needed replacing  werent going to match, I think  RSA should 
have been more flexible and come  up with the sort of compromise Ive suggested for the 
bedroom panels. I dont see the principle that we apply  to matching sets as one that only 
applies to home insurance.  I see it as a general principle that is often appropriate across 
other types of insurance. That said, my decisions dont set precedents and I consider 
whats fair and reasonable in each complaint I consider. In this case it remains my view 
that the compromise Ive set out to deal with the fact the bedroom panels  wont match is 
appropriate on the basis its fair and reasonable. 
I can see why RSA deducts VAT from cash offers until the work  being paid for under the 
policy is completed. But if it is going to do this, it needs to explain why it has deducted  it to 
the customer and agree with the contractor  it has appointed to settle this aspect once 
theyve completed the work. RSA doesnt  appear to have done either in Mrs Ds case. 
I appreciate some of the offers RSA made could have been  interpreted incorrectly by    Mr 
D and Mrs D, but I still think they could have been  clearer and references to the excess 
werent clear  enough. And when I read them it does look like RSA were deducting the 
excess after Mr D had already paid it to the original contractor. 
Ive not directly awarded anything for the bookings Mrs D may have lost due to delays. I 
explained that if I had, this would  not be based on the policy wording, as it would be due to 
the delays I think  RSA and LSs approach  caused.  But my award of £750 in compensation 
for the distress Mrs D experienced in not being able to rent out her caravan, the loss of 
enjoyment of it and the general distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result  of 
the inflexibility (as I see it) of LS and RSA. And I still think  this significant amount is 
appropriate for the reasons I explained  in my provisional decision. I should  also make it 
clear that this amount is for distress and inconvenience up to the point Mrs D brought her 
complaint to us, not for the period whilst we were considering it. 
I have checked  the policy  document again, but I still cant  find reference to a £500 limit for 
contents. But  as I explained  in my provisional  decision, its not something I need to 
consider further,  as Mrs D seems  to accept it applies. 
In summary,  largely for the reasons  I set out in my provisional decision it remains  my view 
that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint  is for RSA to pay and do what I set 
out in it for the repairs needed  to Mrs Ds caravan, plus the compensation of £750 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must do the following:
Pay her £9,754 for the repairs to her caravan;
pay her £750 in compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
settle the invoice for the replacement  of the skylights  direct  with the repairer  in full, if
its not done so already.
Ref: DRN06362489Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0636248