K822xcomplaint
Mrs Cs complaint is that an adviser  from St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) 
transferred her Individual  Savings Account (ISA), from a third party  firm to SJP,  without  her 
consent and misrepresented  the circumstances surrounding the advice she received.
SJP has returned  the cash  value of the ISA to Mrs C and it made  a without prejudice 
goodwill offer to her of £250 as part of its apology for what it considered to be a 
misunderstanding in the matter. Mrs C declined the offer and considers the matter 
unresolved
background 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and considered as follows:
He noted Mrs Cs assertion that she did not agree to implement SJPs  advice  to 
transfer her ISA  she said the understanding she reached  with the adviser was that 
she was shortly to travel after the advice meeting and would take time to consider his 
advice before making a decision;  she also said her husband repeated this to SJP 
thereafter over the telephone. He also noted  Mrs Cs suggestion of fraud in the 
completion of the transfer form but said that is a matter beyond his remit.
He noted Mrs Cs assertion that she did not sign the transfer form  she said she 
signed documentation for becoming a client of SJP but not knowingly a transfer  form. 
He said SJP has referred to the transfer  form she signed giving requisite permission 
and that he was persuaded, on balance, that she gave such  permission.
He referred to Mrs Cs dissatisfaction with being unable  to revert to her original ISA 
but noted that there is evidence of her agreement to receive the refund of the ISA 
value in cash (paid to her bank account).
He addressed Mrs Cs assertion that the adviser was against  her using some of her 
lump sum capital to repay her husbands  debt by referring to fact find evidence in 
which the adviser included her intention to do this. He concluded that her full 
circumstances were  considered in the advice she received.
The investigator concluded, overall,  that SJPs goodwill  offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs C disagreed with this outcome. She maintained  that the transfer was made without her 
consent and that the adviser  has misrepresented matters in the complaint. She rejected the 
suggestion that the cash refund was her choice and said it was no longer possible to revert  
to her original ISA so she had no choice but to accept the cash refund into her bank account. 
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that SJPs 
goodwill offer is a fair and reasonable basis to resolve the complaint.
The advice meeting took place on 16 August  2018;  on the following day SJP sent an email 
to Mrs C with information  about the processed transfer application;  Mrs C says she received 
it whilst  she was away but did not read it at the time because she had decided  by then not to 
proceed with the recommendation;  she says her husband also spoke to SJP around  the time 
and told it not to proceed with the recommendation; on 30 August she sent an email to SJP 
Ref: DRN02531212to say she had learnt  that her ISA had been  transferred  without her consent; and by 12 
September she had received the cash value refund remitted  by SJP. 
The entire experience  lasted  less than a month and the refund was resolved within a 
fortnight after Mrs Cs email of 30 August. I am also mindful that Mrs C has been unable to 
revert to her original ISA. There has been  no financial loss and the matter appears  to have 
been rectified, as much  as it could in the circumstances, without undue delay. Overall and on 
balance, I consider that £250 is a fair a reasonable basis to compensate Mrs C for the 
trouble and upset  caused by her experience in the matter. I have reached this conclusion  
mindful of the issues Mrs C remains unhappy  about,  which  I address below. 
I am not satisfied that there is any advantage  for either party  in terms of available evidence  
and in terms of determining what actually happened at the advice meeting. Mrs Cs account  
of the meeting appears to be sincere, but this is countered by the signed transfer document 
(which she might or might  not have signed  unknowingly) and what  appears to be equal 
sincerity in SJPs email to her on the day after the meeting which presented  (to her) its belief 
that the transfer had been agreed  at the meeting.  
Mrs Cs submission about the issue of paying  off her husbands debts also appears to be 
sincere but, as the investigator noted, the adviser  did not conceal this intention  and reflected 
it expressly in the fact find document. 
SJPs reference  to a misunderstanding appears to be relevant to the telephone conversation 
between Mrs Cs husband and SJP in which she asserts that he told it not to proceed with 
the recommendation. SJP says it understood that this meant she was not to proceed with 
additional contributions to the transferred ISA. Without direct and independent evidence of 
what was said in the telephone conversation,  a misunderstanding appears to be a 
reasonable conclusion.
I accept Mrs Cs point that the cash value refund was a matter over which  she had no choice 
and I recognise the trouble and upset  she would have faced in being  unable to revert  to her 
original ISA. However evidence suggests  it was a Cash ISA so there  does not appear to 
have been any lost direct investment opportunity and I consider that SJPs goodwill offer 
reasonably covers this matter too.
Overall, the amount of £250 is broadly consistent with the sort of award  this service would 
make for trouble and upset caused  in circumstances comparable to those in Mrs Cs case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in terms of the trouble and upset  
caused to her and I order St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc to pay her £250 in that 
respect. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0253121