K822xcomplaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home insurance with Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
background 
Mrs R had a home insurance policy with Lloyds since December 1999. It cost £271.70  for 
that year. The premiums  increased in the following years, and in 2015  she was paying 
£2,185.56 per year. I note that Mrs R made  claims on her policy  in 2001 and 2003. I also 
note that in 2011 she moved property. 
Mrs R contacted Lloyds  in 2016 to discuss her premium and it was identified that an error 
meant that they had insured the incorrect number of bedrooms since her address changed in 
2011. Lloyds refunded  £2,970.04 (including interest) to Mrs R and paid £25 for the trouble 
and upset in respect  of this. Mrs R cancelled her policy  in March 2016. 
Ms R thinks  Lloyds has taken advantage  of her by unfairly increasing the cost of the policy  
every year. She says she was charged too much  and should be reimbursed for the extra  she 
had paid over the years.  
Lloyds made  earlier  offers to compensate Mrs R but she refused them.  Lloyds has now 
offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance  from 2007 up until Mrs Rs policy  was 
cancelled in 2016. This totals £2,921.60 and 8% additional compensation for Mrs R being 
out of pocket of that money. Lloyds  has also offered  a further £200 as compensation for the 
trouble and upset  Mrs R has been  caused.  Mrs R has not accepted Lloyds offer.  
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Lloyds has treated Mrs R fairly  throughout the period  she held her 
insurance policy. 
If I find that Lloyds hasnt treated Mrs R fairly,  I will look to see what  compensation would  be 
fair and in this case whether I think what Lloyds has offered is fair.
When Mrs R took out her policy in 1999, it cost £271.70 for the year. Often  new policies will 
have introductory  discounts  and Lloyds has said this is what  happened  in Mrs Rs case. 
This isnt uncommon and policies may well initially be priced lower to attract new customers.  
I dont think its unfair  for an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the first few years.  I can 
see Mrs R made claims on her policy in 2001 and 2003. I think some  of the price increases 
around this time will be down to these  claims.  Often when someone make  a claim, an insurer  
will assess that will increase their risk of claiming again, so the cost of insurance at renewals 
goes up. 
Ref: DRN02371282I can see that Mrs Rs premium continued  to increase each year and she didnt  engage with 
Lloyds about her premium  until 2016.  Mrs R says she trusted Lloyds and assumed she was 
paying competitively  priced premiums for her home insurance. She says it wasnt until 2016 
that she noticed she had been overcharged. 
Its possible that if a consumer hasnt been engaging with their insurer  over the price 
of their insurance over a number of years, an insurer could take advantage of that by 
increasing the price  of insurance  that wouldnt be fair. Looking at all the facts  I think its 
possible Lloyds should have realised by around  2006 that Mrs R wasnt  the type of person 
who shopped around for cheaper insurance regularly. So if it increased the price just 
because she didnt  engage at renewal, that wouldnt be fair.
If I thought Lloyds had unfairly increased  the price in 2007, I would consider it reasonable for 
it to work out compensation  based  on Mrs Rs premium in 2006,  and refund any increase 
from this point (adding interest for the time shed  been out of pocket).  Lloyds has done this 
until 2011 until Mrs R changed  address  and I think this is fair.
Lloyds has also offered to refund some of the premiums from 2011 until the policy  was 
cancelled in 2016. This is on top of what theyve already refunded for the error it made 
regarding the number of bedrooms  in her new home from 2011 onwards. 
Lloyds total offer is £2,921.60 and 8% additional  compensation  for Mrs R being out of 
pocket of that money. It has also offered £200 compensation for the trouble and update  
caused to Mrs R. I think this is fair as it ensures Mrs R hasnt lost out if Lloyds did increase 
the cost of her premium  just because she wasnt engaging at renewal.  
Mrs R points to the fact she was able to get a much cheaper policy  in 2016. She thinks  she 
should get a refund of the difference between this new premium  and what  she was actually 
charged. But was a new policy in 2016  and Lloyds  has said Mrs R received a discount  on 
the premium cost as well. So it wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to use this different policy  cost 
when working out its offer.  
Having considered Lloydss offer, I think its fair. It makes sure Mrs R hasnt lost out if Lloyds 
did increase the price  just because she didnt engage at each renewal.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds offer is fair, and I 
dont think it needs  to do any more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or  
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0237128