K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint arises  from a central  heating  insurance policy  he has with British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
background
The policy Mr B has with British Gas includes and an annual service  of his boiler. When  Mr B 
went online  to book  the annual service, he says the appointment confirmation webpage 
showed the following words: Booked for Central  Heating - £60 Excess. 
Mr B says this suggested hed have to pay £60 for the annual service  to be done,  which  was 
meant to be included in his policy.  Mr B therefore  tried to contact British Gas to confirm the 
situation. There was only one telephone number available and no other means of contact 
and Mr B had to wait on hold for some  time.  It was eventually confirmed that he would not 
have to pay for the service. 
British Gas says the wording on the website simply reflects  that the policy  Mr B has carries a 
£60 excess for any claims for boiler breakdown. British Gas apologised for the time Mr B had 
to wait on the phone and offered £20.00 for this inconvenience. It also said it has recorded  
Mr Bs feedback about the content  of the webpage  in question being  misleading. 
Mr B doesnt  accept British Gass  response to his complaint. Mr B says that the complaint 
handler was dismissive and rude; failed to investigate the issue  properly; and failed to 
respond to his request about  whether he needed  to return  the £20 cheque  which  he was 
rejecting. British Gas should apologise for his poor handling of his complaint; rectify the 
misleading information on the webpage;  and pay him more  compensation.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  that it be upheld. 
She thought  the issue had been  resolved  and clarified reasonably quickly and British  Gass 
offer of compensation is fair. 
Mr B doesnt  accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
He says, we should have  the power  to provide a sanction where  a regulated
provider of financial products has already placed  misleading and untrue information
about those products on its website, and has refused to remove  that information, as has 
clearly been the case here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says we should be able to sanction British  Gas for not changing the information that 
appears on its website, when customers try and arrange an annual  service online.  I cant  do 
this.  
My remit  is to consider  individual  complaints  about regulated activities. We do not regulate  
financial businesses and so I have no power to fine or punish a business for anything they 
have done wrong.  I can, however, make awards  to compensate individual complainants  for 
any financial  loss, or material distress and inconvenience caused to them  directly  by any 
breach of contract or other wrongdoing by a financial business such  as British Gas.  And we 
Ref: DRN07061512do publish  our decisions and so we hope businesses learn from them to try and avoid  future 
complaints. 
Mr B felt he needed to contact British Gas for confirmation that the £60 excess didnt apply 
to the boiler service, he was left on hold for some time,  so some inconvenience  was caused 
to him by this. However, he says in his complaint form that he knew  there was no charge for 
the annual service. He had a long wait on the phone to discuss  this but the issue was 
resolved relatively  quickly. Mr B might not have been happy  with British Gass  response 
about the website wording  but this is not something I can make  any finding or award  about,  
as this in itself has not caused any material difference  to Mr Bs position. He had received 
the answer he needed in order to go ahead with his annual service, knowing he would not be 
charged for it; and we do not normally award compensation for the time and effort involved in 
bringing and dealing with a complaint. Overall  therefore, I consider the £20 already offered is 
reasonable compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr B. I do not agree that British 
Gas should be required to pay any more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited, as I consider it has 
already made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation in full and final settlement of the 
complaint. If Mr B would now like to accept  that offer, he should  confirm his acceptance of 
this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0706151