K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt tell her that to qualify for the Help to 
Buy ISA bonus,  there  was a purchase price  limit for the property she would be buying.
background
Mrs P decided to invest money she was given as a gift for her wedding  in a Help to Buy ISA 
for a house  purchase. When Mrs P opened  the account, she did so in branch, and agreed to 
the terms and conditions of the account.  
When Mrs Ps solicitor  applied for the bonus  from HMRC when completing the house 
purchase for her, they were informed that as the property was outside of London  and over 
£250,000, she wouldnt be eligible  for the bonus.  Mrs P had factored getting the bonus into 
the finances needed for the property purchase, and says she had to borrow the money off 
family to complete  the sale.
She complained to Nationwide, but they said Mrs P signed the declaration agreeing  shed 
seen a copy of the schemes rules, or a link to the rules. And the rules  make it clear the 
property purchase limits.  Mrs P then contacted our service for help.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he couldnt see Nationwide  had missed 
giving Mrs P any information on the scheme  rules for the Help to Buy ISA. Mrs P disagreed - 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Im not upholding the 
complaint  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the documents Mrs P was given at the time she applied for the Help to Buy 
ISA. Under the Declaration for Help to Buy ISA, Mrs P has signed  to say;
I have been supplied with, or have had made available to me, a copy  of the Scheme  Rules,  
or have  been  provided with, or had made available to me, a link to a website where the 
Scheme Rules can be accessed,  and I agree to be bound from the date of this agreement  as 
an Eligible Customer by the Scheme Rules, as such may be amended and/or restarted from 
time to time.
This shows Mrs P agreed shed been given the relevant information about the Scheme 
Rules. Amongst other  things, these rules  say;
the Purchase Price is: 
(A)in the case  of a property located  in London,  not more than £450,000; or 
(B)in the case  of a property located  outside London,  not more  than £250,000;
So I think Nationwide made Mrs P aware  there  were  rules linked to the way the Help to Buy 
ISA worked at the time she set up the account.
Ref: DRN09136512Had Mrs P, or anyone acting on her behalf when completing the house purchase looked  up 
these rules, they wouldve seen the property she was looking to buy was over the limit to 
qualify for the bonus for house purchases  outside of London - which  was £250,000.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs P was disappointed  to find out she didnt qualify for the bonus, I think  
the information Nationwide gave her was clear, and wouldve made her reasonably aware of 
all the necessary information she needed  to make  an informed choice about how the 
scheme worked. And this includes information about the schemes  maximum house  
purchase limits. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ps.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0913651