K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Metro Bank plc closed his accounts at short notice and applied a CIFAS  
marker against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud  alert service.  
background
In early November 2017 Mr F opened two accounts  with Metro Bank. The banks records  
indicate that he reported a lost card on 13 November and changed  the mobile phone linked 
to the account  on 20 November. A replacement card was issued  on 22 November. Shortly 
after that, three new payees were set up on one of the accounts  and small payments made  
to them.  
On 28 November a payment  of £10,000  was made  to the other  account and then different 
sums were transferred between the two accounts  and to the payees  that had been set up 
previously. Mr F then called Metro  Bank  to change his mobile  phone  back  to that which had 
originally been  registered. 
On 30 November Metro  Bank identified that the payment of £10,000 had been fraudulent; 
that is, the holder of the account from which it was made  hadnt  given authority for it. Metro 
Bank wrote to Mr F to say it was closing the accounts. It recorded a CIFAS  marker against 
Mr Fs name.  
Some time later, in October  2018,  Mr F contacted Metro Bank asking for bank statements. 
When he received them  he said he didnt recognise  the activity on the accounts and asked 
that the CIFAS  marker  be removed. 
Mr F explained that hed lost his card between 22 and 25 November 2017. He also said that 
he used an internet caf for online banking; he kept a note of his online banking details 
which hed put in the bin at the internet caf.  He also explained  that hed asked for a SWIFT 
code and IBAN  when hed opened  the accounts,  as he was expecting a payment from a 
friend overseas. Unfortunately,  however, that friend  had died before they could make  the 
payment. 
When Mr F referred  his complaint to this service,  one of our investigators considered it. She 
identified a number  of inconsistencies in Mr Fs version of events. Specifically:
Mr F said hed lost his card between  22 and 25 November.  The banks records show  
however that hed reported  a lost card on 13 November and that a replacement had 
been issued on 22 November. But in any event, the card wasnt  used for any of the 
transactions that are relevant here.  
Mr F said hed written down his online log-in  details  and left them  in a public bin. Even if 
that were true, Mr Fs mobile  phone  would have been needed to set up a new payee 
and make payments from his accounts.  The log-in  details wouldnt have been enough 
on their own. 
Mr F had changed the mobile phone number linked to the account  on 20 November.  
The new payee  codes were sent to the new number. The number was changed  back  on 
28 November.  Mr F said that the original  phone was being repaired between these 
dates; however, the banks records indicated that he had used the original number in 
that time. 
Ref: DRN00477052The investigator thought it unlikely that someone  had managed to get hold of Mr Fs online 
banking details from the bin at the internet caf and also managed  to get access  to his 
replacement phone to which  the access codes were  sent. 
The investigator also noted that the SWIFT code for the account  was quoted when the 
fraudulent payment was made. She wasnt persuaded that Mr F had requested that so a 
friend could  make a payment to him. She noted too that Mr F had logged onto his accounts  
on 28, 29 and 30 November 2017  but later said he knew nothing about  the activity  on the 
account. She concluded that Mr F was more  than likely involved in the payments and that 
Metro Bank  hadnt  treated him unfairly  by acting in the way it did. 
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for broadly the same reasons. 
As the investigator  identified, CIFAS members (which includes Metro  Bank)  should  only 
record information of the type involved here if there are reasonable grounds  to believe that a 
financial crime has been committed  or attempted and that the evidence  is such  that the 
member could confidently  report the conduct of the subject (here, Mr F) to the police. Its not 
enough that Metro Bank  merely suspected  wrongdoing  on the part of Mr F. 
In this case, our investigator thought that the evidence  was sufficient to meet that standard.  I 
agree with that assessment. Quite apart from the fraudulent payment, there were a number 
of unusual developments in the few weeks  that Mr Fs accounts were  open  the loss of a 
card; the expected payment from overseas which never materialised; the temporary change 
of phone numbers;  and the disposal in a public place of log-in details. And, as the 
investigator also noted, Mr F already had an account with a different provider. 
Mr F provided very little supporting evidence  of his version of events. For example, he said 
he had a medical condition that meant  he couldnt remember his online banking details and 
so had to write them down;  that he was expecting funds from abroad, but that his friend died 
before they could  be sent; and that his original phone was being repaired. 
Overall, though, I think it most unlikely that someone  was able to use Mr Fs newly-opened 
accounts to receive  stolen  funds and then to transfer them away, unless he was involved. 
His explanations  about how that happened without his involvement are, in my view,  not 
credible. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Metro Bank has treated him fairly.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Metro Bank  plc to take any further steps  to resolve  Mr 
Fs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
F to accept or reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Ref: DRN00477053Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0047705