K820x#14complaint
Mr T says he shouldnt  have been given loans  by MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) because he was 
in a debt spiral at the time and so couldnt afford the loans. 
background
Mr T took 3 loans from MYJAR  between November 2016 and September 2017. It looks as 
though Mr T has had some problems  repaying his final loan and an outstanding balance  
remains. 
A summary  of Mr Ts borrowing, based  on the information given to us by MJYAR can be 
found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment 
datecontractual  
number of 
instalmentslargest  
repayment
1 £250.00 26/11/2016 17/12/2016 3 £128.61
2 £900.00 19/12/2016 01/09/2017 12 £141.33
3 £675.00 03/09/2017 outstanding 12 £102.11
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint as they didnt think  Mr T had been  treated 
unfairly. Mr T didnt agree and made the following points;
the loans were taken  out quickly after the previous  loans had been  repaid and 
the credit  check information shouldve given  MYJAR cause for concern.
MYJAR appears to have  accepted the adjudicators findings. 
No agreement could  be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to understand whether 
Mr T could  repay his loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
Ref: DRN04610032But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly. 
MYJAR says it agreed to Mr Ts application  after he provided details of his monthly income 
and expenditure.  And, based on what he declared,  this information suggested that 
Mr T would be able to make the repayment  he was committing to. And I think it was 
reasonable for MYJAR  to have relied  on this information bearing  in mind these were  the first 
loans that Mr T had taken  from MYJAR and his monthly commitment was relativity small. So 
in these circumstances it wasnt  irresponsible to lend loans 1 and 2. 
I accept that Mr Ts actual circumstances couldve not been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information MYJAR obtained such as the results  of its 
credit checks. And Mr Ts actual financial position  might well have been apparent if further  
information  such as bank statements or detailed credit checks   had been obtained. 
But MYJAR could  only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of a lending relationship- taking  into account how 
long each loan was due to run, with Mr T. I dont think it had reached the stage where  there 
was a greater  risk of the loan being  unsustainable for Mr T. In these circumstances, I dont 
think MYJAR needed to take further  steps to verify the information  provided  such  as asking 
Mr T for evidence of his income and outgoings which MYJAR couldve gathered  from his 
bank statements or copies of any bills. 
Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done  something 
wrong. And, in this case, I think that MYJAR  carried out reasonable checks even though it 
looks like the information it mightve  been  provided wasnt  reflective of Mr Ts actual financial 
position. 
And before loan 3 was approved, MYJAR carried out the same  type of checks as it had done  
before providing  loans  1 and 2. However,  I do accept that by now,  MYJAR ought to have had 
some concerns about Mr Ts financial position.  
This was now the second time Mr T had taken a loan within  a matter of days of repaying the 
previous one. And the third and final loan was due to run for another year,  meaning there 
was a risk that Mr T would  be indebted to MYJAR  for an extended period of time,  almost two 
years  if the loan had run to term.  So at this point in time I think  it wouldve been 
reasonable for MYJARs  checks to go further.  By now I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
it to have had a complete picture  of Mr Ts financial position and have had verified this 
information.  
Although, I dont think MYJAR did enough  before providing loan 3. Im not in a position  
uphold this loan.  The reason for this is that Ive not seen  any other information or evidence  
that makes me think that further checks wouldve  shown MYJAR that this loan wasnt 
affordable or unsustainable for Mr T. 
Ive also thought about the credit search  results MYJAR has provided for each loan. I 
appreciate why looking at his credit  report Mr T had some concerns about  MYJARs decision 
to lend to him.  
Ref: DRN04610033But, the information MYJAR  saw wasnt exactly the same as that which Mr T may have seen 
on his actual credit report. But, what I have done is consider the information MYJAR was 
provided with when it carried out its credit  checks. 
Having done so, there isnt anything in this information that may have led MYJAR  to 
automatically decline Mr Ts application  for these loans. And there isnt anything  contained  
within the reports, to have  given MYJAR  cause  for concern,  or to have prompted it to ask for 
further information from Mr T. So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to have provided these 
loans, solely  based  on the information it gathered  from the credit reference agency. 
Finally, Id like to reassure Mr T that Ive considered all the points he has raised. As Im not 
upholding his complaint, I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr T. But I hope  that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been  listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0461003