K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited didnt provide a pro rata 
refund of his premium  under  his car insurance policy after it settled a total loss claim.  
background
Mr Ns daughter  who was a named driver under Mr Ns policy  - was unfortunately  involved  
in an incident.  As a result, Mr Ns insurer Admiral said her car wasnt  economical  to repair. 
So it settled  the claim by paying Mr N the market value for the car. 
Mr N didnt insure a replacement car. But Mr N was unhappy  because Admiral deducted the 
remainder of the years  premium form the settlement it paid him. He didnt think  Admiral  had 
been fair. 
But Admiral  said it had acted correctly and in line with the policy.  As it paid a total loss 
settlement under the insurance policy, the full years premium was due. As Mr N didnt add a 
replacement car, Admiral cancelled the policy. It deducted the balance  of the premium from 
the total loss settlement it paid.
Mr N asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought Admiral had acted 
reasonably. Mr N didnt  agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ns contract  with Admiral is for a year. Admiral agreed for Mr N to repay the years  
premium by way of monthly instalments. As Admiral paid a total loss settlement it met its 
obligations under  the contract. So this means Mr N owes the full years  premium. This is a 
standard industry term so I dont find it unusual. 
Our investigator set out the full policy wording where  Admiral explained the relevant terms 
under Mr Ns policy. The policy says that Admiral may deduct any outstanding premium from 
any total loss claim settlement it makes. 
Mr N says it was Admirals decision  to write  off the car  not his. So he doesnt think its fair 
that Admiral keeps the car and keeps  the full years  premium. 
But Admiral  is entitled to retain the car as it has paid a total loss settlement for it. Mr N 
accepted the terms Admiral clearly set out under its policy when he bought it. 
I understand Mr N will be disappointed  with my decision. But I dont think Admiral has acted 
unreasonably. So I dont think it owes Mr N a pro rata refund  of the full years premium.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN07477572Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0747757