K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) when they took out their mortgage in 2005.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI alongside their mortgage. The PPI was free for the first three 
months and then initially cost £42.04 per month. It provided a total benefit  of £650.
It would have covered  Mr and Mrs C equally - 50/50 if they couldnt work through an 
accident, sickness or if they lost their jobs, and it could have paid for up to 24 months per 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with 
this view. They said in summary:
That there was a lack of clear information  about  whether the requirement  to work for 
16 hours could or couldnt be worked over one or more  jobs.
Mr and Mrs C felt there was a wider issue of the worth and value for money of the 
PPI, that we hadnt considered, not just whether it had been  mis-sold. They  say they 
were sold expensive  insurance that they were unlikely to use.
They asked for their matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise Mr and Mrs C will be 
disappointed with my decision so I will explain why.
Ive first looked at whether Mr and Mrs C had a fair choice about  buying the PPI. Nationwide 
has provided some of the point of sale paperwork and I have carefully  considered this. 
Section 9 of the mortgage application  is headed  mortgage payment protection  
requirements. The paperwork is signed and dated  by Mr and Mrs C and records  that they 
wanted to take out the PPI, the amount of the cover required and the claim benefit period. 
The customer information document attached an insurance illustration as requested and 
included details of the PPI, the cost and the benefit.  It stated that you should review your 
insurance requirements on a regular basis.
The mortgage offer also states:  you are not required to buy insurance through Nationwide. 
And under the heading Optional Insurance-  the paperwork  shows  that Mr and Mrs C had 
chosen the PPI. This section also confirms that the cover would be free for three months and 
on completion Mr and Mrs C would be sent a customer information document  confirming the 
monthly premiums. It confirms that after the first free three  months of the cover  
Mr and Mrs C would  be notified of the monthly  premiums. Looking at all the paperwork, I 
Ref: DRN08424862think Mr and Mrs C chose the cover  for the benefit it gave and more likely knew they could 
have declined it if they didnt want it.
Nationwide didnt make  a recommendation for this PPI. That meant that it didnt need to 
check it was suitable.  But it still needed  to give Mr and Mrs C enough clear,  fair and 
non-misleading information so that they could decide for themselves whether  to take out the 
policy.
I think they took the PPI in branch and I cant know what was said to them at the time. I think  
the cost of the policy was set out on the paperwork.  On the other hand, its possible that not 
all the information  was as clear  as it could have been. But thats not enough  for me to uphold  
this complaint. I next need to consider whether at the time Mr and Mrs C bought this policy 
they would  have been put off buying it if theyd been  given clearer  information. I dont think 
they would  have been.
I say this because  I can see both Mr and Mrs C were eligible  for the cover. And I think  they 
could have made a successful  claim if theyd needed to. For example, at the time the policy  
was sold Mr and Mrs C havent  told me about  any pre-existing medical conditions they had 
which wouldnt have been covered.
Mr and Mrs C were both working and didnt have unusual employment circumstances at the 
time of the sale. But they are concerned about  the terms of the policy in relation to working 
16 hours or more over more than one job as they say they wouldnt have been able to make  
a valid claim if Mrs C had moved her hours over several jobs. I have thought  carefully about 
this. But at the time Mr and Mrs C bought the policy they were both working for more than 16 
hours in one job. Mrs C has told us she worked  over 17 hours  in her job. So, it wouldnt have 
prevented her making a claim at the time they took out the PPI.
If Mr or Mrs Cs working hours or circumstances had changed subsequently, I would have 
expected them to contact the insurers to inform them of their changed  circumstances. In any 
event if Mrs C later changed to work for a total of 16 hours in more  than one job (so several 
part time roles) then I still think  its more  likely  she could have made a successful claim. I 
think it would  have  only made a difference if she worked full time in one role and part time in 
another as to whether  she could  make a valid claim. Nevertheless, at the time of the sale 
when they decided to buy the PPI, I dont think they would have changed their mind about  
buying it even  if theyd had better information.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said about their benefits from work. I appreciate 
they had good benefits, but this policy  would  have paid out for up to 24 months  per 
successful claim. So, it would have paid out for longer than their work benefits would have 
lasted and in addition to any they did get. If either Mr or Mrs C had lost their jobs or couldnt 
work, then their income  would have reduced and quite quickly they could have fallen into 
difficulty. Mr and Mrs C have  also said they had some savings and other  insurance. But they 
could have used  their savings for other  important  expenses if things went wrong and the 
other insurances didnt  cover the same  thing as the PPI. Insurance  is taken out to protect an 
unexpected eventuality. This policy covered their mortgage and the consequences of not 
being able to repay it were serious.  So, I think the PPI could have been useful if things went 
wrong.
Mr and Mrs C have also told me that they didnt think the policy  was good value for money 
but theres nothing  to make me think it was unaffordable and I think the cost of the policy  
was reasonable  for the benefit it gave. When the cost later increased  then Mr and Mrs C 
Ref: DRN08424863could have cancelled  at any time.  I can see Mr and Mrs C cancelled  it in 2012 although the 
mortgage continued.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but as Ive explained I think they took out the cover for 
the protection it gave, and I still think it could have  been useful if things went wrong.  So, I 
dont think at the time they bought it they would  have  changed  their mind even if theyd had 
better or clearer information.
I dont think Mr and Mrs C lost out financially as a result of anything  Nationwide did wrong 
and I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Nationwide  Building  
Society doesnt need to do anything further to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0842486