K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 
alongside a credit card. Mr H says Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard,  mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Although I have only included some  of the complaint points made by each party,  I have read 
and considered all the evidence and arguments available  to me from the outset, in order  to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr H says the PPI was added without his knowledge and consent. Ive thought about this but 
as I wasnt present in the meeting I have to consider the evidence  available from the time to 
come to a decision based  on what I think is more likely  to have happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form Mr H saw and signed. In this there  is a 
section for PPI where theres a tick in the box to agree to the cover, but there  is nothing  here 
to suggest the PPI had to be taken out. Mr H signed this document so I think  this reflected 
what he wanted at the time. So, based  on the evidence Ive seen, I think  Barclays made it 
clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this.
Mr H says he wasnt given any advice or recommendation to take out the PPI. Barclays says 
it did recommend the PPI to Mr H. However,  it is not necessary for me make a conclusive 
determination on this point. This is because I have not found that the policy was unsuitable 
for Mr H for the reasons  set out below. So, even  if I assume advice was given, it does not 
affect the outcome of this complaint  and so Ive considered this to have been an advised  
sale in my decision.
As an advised sale Barclays had to check  that the PPI was right for Mr H - and while  I dont 
know what Mr H was asked at the time or what exactly was discussed - based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to have had a need for the 
cover.
Mr H says the PPI wasnt suitable for him because he was entitled to sick pay from his 
employer and he had savings so wouldve had no difficulty maintaining his repayments.  Mr H 
told us he had three to six months full sick pay and was living at home with his mum so was 
able to save money every month.  The PPI wouldve covered 10% of Mr Hs outstanding 
monthly balance  for up to 12 months   which  wouldve  been  in addition to his sick pay and 
for longer than this entitlement wouldve lasted. And so he couldve  used  these funds for 
other expenses. Ive thought about  Mr Hs financial  situation at the time and the fact that hes 
told us he was able to save money each month. But Mr H also told us he was saving for a 
house and a few years later he had saved enough  to put a deposit down on a property. So 
Ref: DRN07963652having the PPI in place  wouldve  allowed  him to keep his savings  intact for its intended 
purpose  had he suddenly been  unable to work. So overall I think  the PPI wouldve  been 
useful and I dont  think his sick pay entitlement or savings  meant  the policy wasnt suitable 
for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. And Mr H feels strongly that nothing about the PPI was explained  to him at the time. 
But the evidence  suggests he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
Mr H says he didnt claim on the policy when he was off work sick the following year, and 
that this proves  he wasnt aware of the PPI. But, as Ive outlined  above, I think Mr H knew  
about the PPI at the point  of sale and chose to take it out. I dont know  why Mr H didnt claim 
on his policy  when he was off sick from work - its possible he had forgotten about  the PPI or 
its benefits at this time. In any event, this does  not affect my decision about  how the policy 
was sold..  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr H, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of
the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But Barclays Bank  UK PLC does have to pay back  to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0796365