K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains on behalf of Mr W, her son,about  ongoing repairs  needed on a car 
purchased through a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS).  Also about delays in the complaint being dealt which Mr W feels  led to 
financial loss when  he sold the car. 
background
Mrs W says Mr W took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  with Volkswagen  Financial Services 
(UK) (Limited trading as Seat Financial Services)  (VWFS) in January 2017. This was for a 
one year old car with just over 8,000  miles on the clock. The agreement  was for 36 months.
Mrs W says after 16 months the car had to go in for repair. She says at this point a complaint 
was logged with our service. As a result  it was agreed that VWFS would refund 50% of the 
finance payments  for a period of the time the car was being repaired. And the warranty 
would be extended.
Whilst this complaint was being investigated Mr W logged  a further complaint. He had 
received his vehicle back  but there  was some paint damage to it. He also felt the car had 
been depreciating in value whilst awaiting repairs. And that he would lose money  if he were 
to sell it.
She says Mr W complained to VWFS  on 8 October  2018 but only got a final response letter 
on 6 February 2019
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She explained that complaint handing in itself 
isnt a regulated  activity.  Therefore the time it took VWFS to issue  a final response letter 
wasnt something she could look at.
She felt the issue of the time taken for repairs to be done had been dealt with by Mr Ws first 
complaint to this service.  This resulted in a refund of 50% of the finance  payments for a 
period of time when the car was being repaired.
She didnt  feel she could determine how the paint damage had occurred to Mr Ws car. But 
said if Mr W could  provide  any evidence to show the condition  of the car before it went  in for 
repair initially she could look at this again.
Finally she noted Mr W had now sold his car for £8,100. She felt the car could have  been  
expected to achieve a price between £7,900 - £8,900.  So as the price Mr W achieved fell 
within this range she didnt feel she could say the paint damage  had significantly reduced  the 
value of Mr Ws car. 
VWFS accepted this view but Mr W didnt. 
Mrs W queried why compensation couldnt be paid for VWFS  taking more  than eight weeks 
to issue a final response letter or to confirm its investigation was still ongoing.  And detail 
Mr Ws rights to come to our service. She felt that as the business had tried to repair the 
damage to the car that was proof  it had caused  the damage.  And finally that due to the low 
mileage Mr W should  have achieved  a sale price for his car nearer the top end of the range 
our investigator quoted.  So on that basis Mr W did feel he had lost out financially.
Ref: DRN06678442Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She explained she 
could only look at regulated activities such as the sale of the car using a credit agreement. 
But she said complaint handing wasnt a regulated activity.
She noted the email Mrs W sent about  damage  to the car but noted this didnt say what  and 
why this repair wasnt completed so she didnt feel she had sufficient evidence to suggest  
the damage happened whilst at the garage. Finally she remained of the view that this 
damage didnt  affect the sale of the vehicle.
Mrs W didnt accept this further view. She wanted  to know  why other  organisations can 
award compensation payments if companies dont meet  deadlines for dealing  with 
complaints but we cant. That Mr W had lost money  on the car. She felt the photos she 
provided showed the paint work  damage  and reiterated  the  email  she suppled  where  the 
business agreed to look at the damage  did point to the fact it must have caused the damage. 
Finally she said the 50% refund of payments  already received  wasnt  to compensate for the 
loss of value in the car but for the time the car was being repaired.  She said they had had no 
compensation for distress and inconvenience
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W feels strongly about  this. I am aware, and have read, the decision made  
on the first complaint  submitted  to us about the same car. That decision covered repairs  to 
the car and the time Mr W was without  the car whilst  it was being repaired. As a result 50% 
of the finance  payments from September 2018 to December 2018  when the car was being 
repaired were refunded. I cant go over anything  that was covered in that decision. 
I need to make this clear  as Mrs W has pointed  out that Mr W has had no compensation for 
distress and inconvenience for the time the car was being repaired. And the time taken for 
numerous visits to the garage. Also for the time taken for VWF to issue its first final response 
letter. Had a compensation payment been felt to be appropriate this would have been 
awarded in the first complaint  Mr W put in. I cant change what was awarded  in that decision.
To be clear then in this decision  I can only look at Mr Ws second complaint of paint  damage  
to his car. I will also respond to the points Mrs W has raised about complaint handling.
I think its helpful if I clarify what we can, and what we cant look at in terms of complaint  
handling. I appreciate Mrs W feels strongly about this. She has made  comparisons with 
other companies who she believes would award  compensation  for the fact a business  hadnt 
responded within given timescales.
I cant comment on the rules and regulations of other organisations. In this view I can only 
look at what this service does. We are bound  by the rules that are set for us by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  These rules  known as the DISP  rules arent optional we have to 
follow them.
Our adjudicator was right when she said one of our rules is that we can only consider  
complaints about  regulated activities. Complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity  so not an 
activity we can consider.  So I cant tell VWFS  to pay compensation for the fact Mrs W says it 
Ref: DRN06678443didnt respond  to Mr Ws complaint in time alone.  However I can consider how any delay 
might have impacted  on the overall  situation  Mr W is complaining  of.
As I understand it Mr Ws car went in for repair work  on 10 December 2018   and  Mr W 
collected it car on 15 December 2018.  Mrs W in her summary tells us Mr W wasnt  happy  
with the repair but it had had enough. I appreciate Mr W had ongoing  issues with his car so 
I can understand why he felt the way he did. But I am surprised,  given all the issues  he had 
,that he did collect the car that day. He could have chosen to refuse to collect  it if he felt 
there were still issues that needed addressing.
Mrs W then tells us that Mr W complained about  the paint damage  on 18 December  2018.  
But got no response from VWFS until 5 February  2019. Weve asked VWFS about this. And 
also why it referred Mr W to the retailer about  the problem rather than dealing with it itself..
VWFS has told us that Mr W emailed about  the paint damage on 3 February 2019. It said 
Mr W hadnt asked to raise a complaint about this before. It sent us an email trail of 
correspondence from Mr W to support this.
Ive looked at the emails VWFS sent.  Its clear to me that in Mr Ws email of 3 February 2019 
, in which  he attached photos  of the paint damage  to his car, that he believed he had already  
logged a complaint specifically  about this. He refers  to his subsequent complaint file and 
the fact he had had no response for 17 weeks.
But looking  at the email trail VWFS sent, the email from Mr W to VWFS on 18 December 
2018 makes no mention  of the paint  damage  issue but refers to everything  that has 
happened since 8 October 2018. Mrs W told us that the email of 18 December added to 
Mr Ws second complaint. So it seems what Mr W took to be his second complaint  covered 
issues other than the paint damage.
I found it difficult to separate out; from all the information I had ,what information related to 
Mr Ws first complaint  and what related to his subsequent complaint about the paint  damage.   
I think its possible that VWFS didnt realise  there  was a second specific  complaint about the 
paint damage that required a final response letter. So on that basis  I dont think  I can 
reasonably expect VWFS to pay compensation for the time it took to issue a final response 
letter specifically around the paint issue. 
In terms of VWFS response  in its final response letter  saying as the paint damage  wasnt a 
point of sale or manufacturing  issue  it was the responsibility of the retailer to sort I dont 
agree with this. The complaint arose whilst  Mr Ws car was being repaired for faults  that 
whilst not identified as present or developing at the point of sale were repaired at no cost to 
Mr W. As Mr W complained the paintwork was damaged as part of that process I believe 
VWFS should have taken  responsibility for that. 
Having said that I dont think this would have  impacted on the timeframe for sending its final 
response letter which I have already  covered. 
Mr W made the point in his complaint form that as in his previous complaint we awarded him 
50% of his repayments for four months he was without his car, that the same redress should 
apply for the time he was without his car in December  2018. 
We look at each complaint individually so I am not bound by what  was agreed in a separate  
complaint. I think the circumstances here are different. From what  Mrs W has told us Mr W 
Ref: DRN06678444was without his car for a relatively short period of time  five days  in December 2018. We 
dont automatically  award compensation in these situations. 
Ive also noted  that the 50% reduction  of payments awarded in the first view was to cover the 
months September to December 2018  to reflect the fact Mr Ws car wasnt fully repaired until 
December 2018.  So it seems to me that Mr W has already been compensated for the month 
the car had the paintwork  dealt with.
In terms of the actual  paint damage  Mr W has evidenced that through the  before and after  
photos he has sent us. There are clearly some marks and some areas where paint  is peeling  
off.. 
Mrs W sent us an email  from the retailer saying it will get the car booked in ref the damage.  
She feels this shows the damage did occur whilst the car was being  repaired. I cant be sure 
when and how the damage  occurred.  Its possible it did occur whilst the repairs to the car 
were being  carried  out 
But looking  at the photos it does seem  some of the damage was minimal  presumably 
those photos are after the repairs  were  carried out. 
Mrs Ws main point here seems to be that Mr W sold his car at a loss due to the paint  
damage. Unfortunately I have no evidence of that. I appreciate that Mr W might  not have  
wanted to incur further costs dealing with any paint damage  prior to selling his car. But I am 
surprised as Mrs W seems to feel the paintwork significantly  reduced the sale value that he 
didnt get a quote for work and quotes for sale on the basis of dealing with the paint work or 
not. 
There might  be any number  of factors that contributed to the final sale price Mr W got for his 
car. But without any evidence that there was an outstanding problem with the paint work that 
actually reduced  the sale value I dont  think I can reasonably ask VWFS to compensate 
Mr W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0667844