K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about inadequate collection  arrangements at the end of a car hire she was 
financing through  an agreement with Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). 
Shes also unhappy with the excess mileage and refurbishment charges that have been  
made.
background
Mrs B has been represented  during this complaint process by Mr M who was in possession 
of the vehicle during the hire period. I will, in the main and for ease, refer to Mrs B 
throughout this decision.
Mrs B took receipt of a new car in October  2016. She financed the deal through  a two year 
hire agreement with VWFS. 
She complained that at the end of that period VWFS:
should have  collected her old car earlier and the delay  resulted in extensive storage 
costs;
have charged her excess mileage fees and have asked her to pay some  
refurbishment costs;
made a mistake and organised the cars  inspection on the wrong day.
VWFS apologised for the mistake made by their collection agents  when arranging the 
inspection on the wrong day. They reduced the hire cost by one day as a result.  They 
explained that the delay  in collecting the car was because an arrangement  had not been 
made for Mr M to be authorised to handle issues on Mrs Bs behalf.  But they said when this 
was done the inspection  and collection of the vehicle was organised for early November. 
They said it was Mrs Bs choice to store the car and they didnt think they could reasonable 
be held responsible for the costs of storage. But they did offer £50 towards any costs.
Mrs B was disappointed with their response  so she referred her complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator provided an opinion. She thought the delay in collecting the car was 
understandable and she was persuaded by VWFSs suggestion that it took some time to 
arrange for Mr M to be authorised. She didnt think it would therefore  be reasonable to ask 
VWFS to pay the storage costs Mrs B was claiming.  
She thought  theyd been reasonable when discounting a days hire to compensate  Mrs B for 
the inspection  date mix up and she thought the mileage charges had been applied  in line 
with the finance agreement, as it was clear Mrs B had exceeded the mileage limit. She went  
on to consider the refurbishment charges VWFS had levied but she thought  the damage was 
clearly identifiable  and VWFS had been fair to make charges in line with the terms of the 
agreement.
Mrs B was disappointed with the adjudicators findings. She explained that the insurance  had 
run out on the vehicle  and she therefore had no choice but to store it off the road. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06350812I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
the storage costs
I understand that Mrs B was concerned her insurance had run out and that she may have 
wanted to store the car off the road.  However,  Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold 
VWFS responsible. I can understand that arranging third party authorisation can be a 
problem. It was clearly necessary here as its Mr M who has been corresponding on Mrs Bs 
behalf throughout. In those circumstances there was always  going to be a delay at the end 
of the agreement if Mr M wasnt authorised by Mrs B, as it would  prove impossible for the 
inspectors to communicate  with Mr M until he was authorised to do so.
the mileage charge
The terms of Mrs Bs contract explain that excess mileage  charges would be applied if she 
went over the mileage agreement of 8,000  per year. The mileage on the inspection report  
shows the contractual mileage was exceeded  and in those circumstances I think the mileage 
charges (which include VAT) have been  made  correctly.
the refurbishment charges
The contract explains that the car should be returned in good  condition. The industry  
guidelines on what constitutes a good  condition, when cars are returned at the end of a hire 
period, are provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA). Ive 
reviewed the photographic evidence in the inspectors report and I think its clear  the 
damage is outside of these guidelines.  The charges that have been made to refurbish the 
car would therefore  seem  reasonable.
the delayed collection
VWFS accepted the delay had caused problems and they offered to return a days hire 
charge as a result. I think, in the circumstances, that was a reasonable response so Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN06350813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0635081