K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the 2010 transfer  of benefits from two of his pensions  (a defined 
benefit occupational scheme and a personal pension) into a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). Mr Hs pension  monies were  subsequently invested in an unregulated overseas 
property development (Harlequin) that has since become illiquid with little value. Mr H holds 
Park Hall Financial Services Limited  responsible. 
Mr Hs wife, who also transferred a pension and invested in the same  property development, 
has also complained.  Her complaint is being dealt with separately.  
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr H had deferred  benefits in a defined benefit occupational  pension scheme and a 
personal pension,  both of which he was looking to use to fund an investment in the 
Harlequin development. In 2009, he engaged the services  of Park Hall to help with this. 
Park Hall completed a fact find with Mr H on 25 September 2009.  An advice report was 
prepared the following  day which  advised  him against transferring his occupational  scheme  
benefits. Mr H wrote  back to Park Hall on 14 November  to say he still wanted to proceed. His 
other pension (the personal pension) was dealt with through Park Halls non-advised, direct 
offer, service. Mrs H was also considering  contributing  to the investment using  her own 
pension. She also used Park Hall.
Mr Hs SIPP  was opened in 2010, and his two pensions were transferred into it in May and 
June 2010. The investment in the Harlequin development was made shortly  afterwards.  
Mr Hs investment was £44,625. Mrs H contributed a much  smaller amount to the same 
development. Between them, they purchased  a 30% share. The remaining 70% was to be 
purchased at various points during the propertys construction. 
The development has since run into trouble and is now illiquid with limited value, prompting 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  
Park Hall didnt think Mr H had complained in time under the rules  that govern complaints 
such as this. In my provisional  decision, I concluded  that the complaint had been made in 
time. I went on to consider the merits of the complaint. I found that even  though Park Hall 
advised against the transfer of Mr Hs occupational scheme benefits, it limited its advice to 
just the transfer  without  consideration  of Mr Hs proposed investment. I concluded that this 
wasnt the right approach  for Park Hall to have taken. I also thought  it should have done  
more to probe Mr Hs thinking  and motivations after it received his letter  saying he wanted to 
proceed against the advice hed been  given.  However, despite all this, I provisionally 
decided that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I came to this conclusion  because I thought 
there were several reasons to suggest  Mr H would have proceeded with the transaction 
whatever Park Halls  actions.  
I asked both parties for comments on my provisional  decision. Park Hall had no further 
comment. Mr H made a number of points which I address below.
Ref: DRN02174552my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  satisfied with 
my provisional findings.
Neither party has commented on my provisional  conclusion that Mr H had complained in 
time under the relevant rules. I see no reason, therefore, to change  my mind  on this. 
Turning to the merits of the complaint, in my provisional decision I found that Park Hall 
should have advised on the proposed  investment  the Harlequin  development  and not 
just the transfer  of occupational scheme benefits.  I also thought  Mr Hs letter saying he 
wanted to transfer  wasnt  particularly detailed.  So I thought Park Hall should have done more  
to understand  Mr Hs thinking and motivations at this point given he was proposing  to go 
against professional advice.  If Park Hall had done  this, I thought  it possible it would have 
decided the transfer shouldnt proceed  or that Mr H would have concluded the same.
Neither party commented on these failures  by Park Hall. So my view is unchanged  Park 
Hall should have done better. The point of contention is whether Park Halls actions could  
have made  a difference to what Mr H did. In my provisional decision, I concluded that Mr H 
would have transferred  his occupational  scheme benefits, and invested  in Harlequin, even if 
Park Halls advice had been more thorough or if it had done more in response to his 
insistent client letter. I also thought it likely  that he would have transferred his personal 
pension as well. I said the following:
It would be difficult to argue that additional  advice  about his proposed  investment would 
have made a difference to Mr Hs thinking given he was told that it was almost 
impossible for his proposed course of action to improve his pension. I think the language 
in Park Halls  advice  report should, reasonably, have resonated with Mr H. As such, I 
dont think further  advice about the investment  which  would have just reinforced the 
message that Mr H shouldnt transfer  would have made  a difference here.
Even though Mr H wasnt advised about  Harlequin, the direct  offer service he went 
through for his personal  pension meant  he was at least given information about  some of 
the potential risks in investing in commercial property.  This doesnt  absolve Park Hall of 
its responsibilities  to advise Mr H properly. But given Mr H was told that there were risks 
with commercial  property investment relating  to higher  fees, potential illiquidity and future 
financing, it makes  it difficult  to argue that advice on Harlequin would have made a 
notable difference.
Before Mr H transferred his pension benefits, Mrs H was told she shouldnt transfer her 
personal pension  to a SIPP because the SIPPs charges would quickly  erode her transfer  
value. Given the Harlequin investment required funds  from both Mr and Mrs H, I see no 
reason why Mr H wouldnt have been aware  of this warning to Mrs H. It means  Mr H 
effectively transferred against  the advice given to him and despite warnings  about a 
different issue  given  to Mrs B. 
Not coincidently,  Mr H didnt appear to have  a particular interest in seeking financial 
advice. It looks  like Mr H was told he had to take advice  with regards to his occupational  
scheme, a restriction that didnt apply to his personal  pension. Mr H only took advice in 
relation to the former,  despite it being  by far the smaller  amount, suggesting he only took 
advice when  he thought he had to. 
Ref: DRN02174553Mr and Mrs H had previously tried to invest in Harlequin but were unable  to do so 
because of financing  issues. This suggests  a relatively  long-standing interest in the 
development and a determination to overcome obstacles in making the investment.
On his signed fact-find,  Mr H is recorded as having properties worth just over £1 million in 
addition to his home.  Few other details about  these properties were recorded  at the time, 
but they relate  to a buy-to-let portfolio held jointly with Mrs H. Of course, there are 
important differences between  an investment such  as Harlequin and a buy-to-let portfolio 
such as the one Mr and Mrs H had. And I take on board the fact that they were heavily 
mortgaged. But I think its apparent  from the evidence  on file that Mr and Mrs H had, at 
the very least,  an interest  in investing in property in general and an interest  in Harlequin in 
particular.
I havent seen any evidence that Park Hall unfairly encouraged  Mr H to transfer.  For 
instance, sometimes  in an insistent client processes,  the adviser undermines the 
importance of their own advice by including in their paperwork instructions on how to 
ignore that advice  and continue with the transaction. That doesnt seem  to apply here 
given that the advice  letter doesnt  tell Mr H what his potential next steps were and there 
doesnt appear to have  been  any contact between the parties  between  the date of the 
advice report (26 September) and the date of the insistent  client letter (14 November).
Mr Hs representative says the unregulated introducer drafted Mr Hs insistent client  letter 
for him to sign.  I think this shows Mr H was being  influenced more by the introducer than 
the adviser in this period.  This doesnt completely  absolve Park Hall. As I said above,  I 
think it should  have  done more to question Mr Hs motivations after it received his letter.  
But its difficult to overlook the fact that Mr H was more interested  in listening to other 
parties in this period.
In response, Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt have proceeded if it hadnt been for Park Halls 
involvement. In particular, they say its unfair  to say they would have invested in Harlequin 
just because they had a previous interest  in the development.  
However, its the accumulation of evidence thats  important here. So even if I ignore any 
previous interest  in Harlequin, its still the case that Mr H chose to go against Park Halls  
advice to not transfer. Its still the case that he transferred despite  being warned that it would 
be virtually impossible  to improve  upon  his existing pension benefits. Its still the case that 
he transferred despite Mrs H also being  advised  against transferring her own pension. And 
its still the case that Mr H was apparently listening more to other parties than his adviser in 
this period. My view was  and remains  that these are persuasive reasons for saying Mr H 
would, most  likely, have transferred his pensions whatever Park Halls  actions.
 
Mr and Mrs H also say they were  financially naive and point to Mr Hs later attempts to 
withdraw funds from his pension to evidence this. However, I havent seen anything  that 
makes me think that their naivety was such that Park Hall should have taken special 
measures to deal with them. Mr H was, after all, a business owner  and they did have a 
sizeable buy-to-let portfolio. But I acknowledge the more  general point which  is that they 
were too willing to believe the Harlequin story and were victims of its sales processes. But I 
think that rather supports  the point that they wouldnt likely have been deterred  from 
transacting, whatever Park Halls actions.   
Ref: DRN02174554Mr and Mrs Hs other  comments  relate to the Harlequin sales  machine and Park Halls part 
in that. Ive considered everything  they have said but Im satisfied their comments  dont raise 
anything new and material  in relation  to this complaint. 
It follows from the above that Im not upholding  Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN02174555COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the 2010 transfer of benefits from two of his pensions  (a defined  benefit 
occupational scheme and a personal  pension) into a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). Mr Hs 
pension monies were subsequently invested in an unregulated overseas property development  
(Harlequin) that has since become illiquid with little value. Mr H holds Park Hall Financial Services 
Limited responsible. 
Mr Hs wife, who also transferred a pension and invested in the same property development, has also 
complained. Her complaint is being dealt with separately. 
background
In 2008, Mr and Mrs H looked to invest in the Harlequin  development. Mrs H paid a £1,000 
reservation fee but the proposed purchase fell through. In 2009,  they revived their interest in the 
development. It looks like this renewed  interest was prompted by an unregulated firm which 
introduced Mr and Mrs H to Park Hall. Mr H had deferred benefits  in a defined  benefit  occupational 
pension scheme and a personal pension,  both of which he wanted to use to fund the investment in 
the Harlequin  development.  He engaged the services of Park Hall to help with this. Mrs H was also 
considering contributing to the investment  using her own pension. She also used Park Hall. 
Park Hall completed a fact find with Mr H on 25 September 2009. An advice  report was prepared for 
Mr H the following day which advised him against transferring his occupational  scheme  benefits. Mr H 
wrote back to Park Hall on 14 November to say he still wanted to proceed.  Mr Hs other pension (a 
personal pension) was dealt with through Park Halls non-advised, direct  offer, service. 
Mr Hs SIPP was opened in 2010, and his two pensions were transferred  into it in May and June 
2010. The investment in the Harlequin development  was made shortly  afterwards. Mr Hs investment 
was £44,625. Mrs H contributed a much smaller amount to the same development. Between  them, 
they purchased  a 30% share. The remaining 70% was to be purchased at various points during the 
propertys construction. 
The development  has since run into trouble and is now illiquid with limited value, prompting  Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint. The investigator looking into Mr Hs complaint originally concluded  that Park Halls 
insistent client process was flawed  because  he thought  Mr H hadnt demonstrated any real 
understanding of the advice Park Hall had given  him or explained why he wanted to go against that 
advice. Park Hall disagreed, and the investigator subsequently concluded Mr H would have 
proceeded with the transfer of his pension  benefits even if Park Halls insistent client process had 
been more robust. This is because  he found evidence of a previous interest in the Harlequin  
development. He also thought  Mr H had engaged Harlequin with a view to facilitating  the transaction 
rather than for the financial  advice it could offer. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings  so the matter  has been referred  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to not uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. I explain why below.
Did Mr H complain in time?
The rules under which I operate say that, where  a business  doesnt agree, I cant consider a 
complaint which is made more than six years after the event complained  of or, if later,  more than 
Ref: DRN02174556three years from the date the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that 
he had cause  for complaint.
Park Hall says Mr H made his complaint  too late under the rules. I issued a decision in August 2020 
explaining why I was satisfied Mr H had complained  in time. But Park Hall maintains its position. As 
Ive already addressed  its arguments  in some detail in my decision,  I dont propose to revisit them all 
again here. However, there are two outstanding issues  that need addressing.
First, following my decision,  Park Hall said Mr H hadnt given us all relevant  documents  in relation to 
his investment in Harlequin. We went back  to Mr Hs representative and, again, asked for everything 
Mr H had. Some of the information provided in response looks to have been new and was forwarded 
on to Park Hall. But nothing pointed to Mr H having been  aware of problems with the Harlequin 
development prior to April 2015  which is when I decided  he became aware, or should reasonably  
have become aware, of having cause for concern in relation to the development. This is when 
information sent by his SIPP provider  should have alerted  Mr H to potential  problems  with the value of 
his investment and when Mr H was approached  by a solicitor about problems at Harlequin.  As Mr H 
complained in January 2018 my view was, and remains, that he complained  in time under  the three 
year part of the rules.
Second, Park Hall provided us with a 2012  announcement  from Harlequin  in relation to its former 
accountants. The announcement doesnt change my mind. It reads  like a press release, in which  case 
I see no reason  why Mr H would likely  have  seen it. But even if Mr H had seen it, the announcement  
ends with an upbeat message about how the Harlequin  developments were progressing. So, if 
anything, this weakens Park Halls argument  because  the announcement  would have given  comfort to 
Mr H that there  were no ongoing problems with his investment.
In short, I havent been provided with any substantive  new evidence in relation to when Mr H ought, 
reasonably, to have had cause  for concern  in relation to the Harlequin investment. And Im satisfied 
all reasonable enquiries have been  made of the parties involved here. Therefore, for the reasons  
given above, and in my previous decision, Im satisfied Mr H complained within three years of when 
he ought, reasonably, to have  been aware  of having cause for concern. It means  Mr H complained to 
Park Hall within the relevant time limits.
The decision  to transfer
My starting point here is Park Halls  advice  report on transferring Mr Hs occupational scheme 
benefits. This was prepared  on 26 September 2009  and advised Mr H against transferring to a SIPP 
because he would have  needed unrealistically  high returns from his new arrangement just to keep 
pace with the benefits he was giving up. The so-called  critical yield made  the transfer unsuitable:
the critical yield amounts  to 11.6%. This means that between  the date of transfer and age 65, the 
Cash Equivalent Transfer  Value must grow by 11.6% per annum  to provide a similar  level of benefits 
when compared to the existing schemeThis  yield does not take into account additional  fees for 
managing alternative  assets such  as property, which would increase the yield required. This is an 
extremely high rate of return, and one which is unlikely to be achievable consistently in the future.
I must strongly advise against  the transferThe substantial guarantees provided by [the 
occupational scheme], both prior and post retirement, together  with the extensive death benefits  are 
almost impossible to duplicate on transfer to a SIPP  arrangement,  particularly in view of the transfer 
value offered.
I consider this to be clear. However,  its apparent  Park Hall hasnt considered  in any detail Mr Hs 
proposed investment  the Harlequin development. I think this is an important omission  because  Park 
Hall couldnt give suitable  advice without considering the overall transaction, including the suitability of 
the transfer and the investment strategy that the transfer was taken out to facilitate. Therefore, even 
though Mr H wrote back to Park Hall on 14 November to say he wanted to go against its advice, its 
important to point out that he was responding to incomplete advice. And its possible  Mr H may have 
Ref: DRN02174557changed his mind  about  the attractiveness of the transaction if he had been warned about  the risks 
facing Harlequin. It was, after all, an overseas property development that hadnt yet been built.  
Furthermore, an adviser must abide  by a number  of principles as set out by the regulator, notably 
Principle 2 (A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care and diligence) and Principle  6 
(A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly). With this in mind,  
I think  its incumbent on an adviser  to treat an insistent client transaction with caution given the client 
is, by definition,  doing  something that is considered  inadvisable. Mr Hs 14 November letter doesnt go 
into a great  amount of detail  about why he wanted to proceed. So I think Park Hall should have done 
more to probe Mr Hs thinking and motivations on receipt of his letter. If it had done so, its possible it 
would have concluded that the transfer of Mr Hs pension  shouldnt proceed,  or that Mr H would  have 
concluded something similar.
So the question turns  to whether Mr H would have acted differently  even if Park Hall had given more 
complete advice or had done  more  in response to his insistent  client letter. 
My view is that it wouldnt  have made a difference to Mr H. I say this because:
 It would  be difficult to argue that additional advice  about his proposed investment would have 
made a difference  to Mr Hs thinking given  he was told that it was almost impossible for his 
proposed course  of action to improve his pension.  I think the language  in Park Halls advice  
report should, reasonably,  have resonated with Mr H. As such, I dont think further advice 
about the investment   which would have just reinforced the message that Mr H shouldnt 
transfer  would  have made a difference here.
 Even though Mr H wasnt advised about Harlequin, the direct offer service  he went  through 
for his personal  pension meant he was at least given  information  about  some of the potential 
risks in investing  in commercial property.  This doesnt absolve  Park Hall of its responsibilities 
to advise  Mr H properly.  But given  Mr H was told that there were risks with commercial  
property investment relating to higher fees,  potential illiquidity and future  financing , it makes it 
difficult to argue that advice on Harlequin would have made  a notable difference.
 Before  Mr H transferred  his pension benefits, Mrs H was told she shouldnt transfer her 
personal pension to a SIPP because the SIPPs charges would quickly  erode her transfer 
value. Given the Harlequin investment required  funds from both Mr and Mrs H, I see no 
reason why Mr H wouldnt have been aware of this warning to Mrs H. It means Mr H 
effectively transferred against the advice  given to him and despite warnings  about a 
different issue  given to Mrs B. 
 Not coincidently, Mr H didnt appear to have  a particular interest in seeking financial advice. It 
looks like Mr H was told he had to take advice with regards to his occupational  scheme, a 
restriction that didnt apply  to his personal pension. Mr H only took advice in relation to the 
former, despite it being by far the smaller amount, suggesting he only took advice when he 
thought he had to. 
 Mr and Mrs H had previously tried to invest in Harlequin but were  unable  to do so because  of 
financing issues. This suggests a relatively long-standing interest in the development  and a 
determination to overcome obstacles  in making the investment.
 On his signed fact-find, Mr H is recorded as having properties worth just over £1 million in 
addition to his home. Few other  details  about these properties  were  recorded at the time, but 
they relate to a buy-to-let  portfolio  held jointly with Mrs H. Of course, there are important 
differences between an investment such as Harlequin and a buy-to-let portfolio such as the 
one Mr and Mrs H had. And I take on board the fact that they were heavily mortgaged. But I 
think its apparent from the evidence on file that Mr and Mrs H had, at the very least, an 
interest in investing  in property  in general  and an interest in Harlequin  in particular.
Ref: DRN02174558 I havent seen any evidence  that Park Hall unfairly  encouraged  Mr H to transfer. For instance,  
sometimes in an insistent  client processes,  the adviser  undermines the importance of their 
own advice by including in their paperwork instructions on how to ignore  that advice  and 
continue with the transaction.  That doesnt seem to apply here given that the advice letter 
doesnt tell Mr H what his potential next steps were and there doesnt appear to have been 
any contact between the parties between the date of the advice report  (26 September) and 
the date of the insistent  client letter (14 November).
 Mr Hs representative says the unregulated introducer drafted Mr Hs insistent client letter  for 
him to sign. I think  this shows Mr H was being influenced  more by the introducer  than the 
adviser in this period. This doesnt completely absolve  Park Hall. As I said above, I think it 
should have done more  to question Mr Hs motivations after it received his letter. But its 
difficult to overlook the fact that Mr H was more interested in listening to other parties in this 
period.
Therefore, taking the totality of the above  into consideration, it seems to me that Mr H would have 
transferred his occupational scheme benefits, and invested in Harlequin, even if Park Halls  advice 
had been more  thorough or if it had done more in response to his insistent client letter.  
I think  similar considerations  apply  in relation to Mr Hs personal pension transfer in so far as Park 
Hall could have done better but, even if it had, it wouldnt  likely have made a difference. This part of 
the transfer was progressed through a direct offer service  which Park Hall describes as being an 
execution-only service. I dont propose to comment in detail on that process  here other than to say I 
have some concerns  that Park Hall was willing to transact on this basis given  it knew,  or ought 
reasonably have known, that it was concurrently advising Mr H to not transfer his occupational 
scheme benefits. The Harlequin purchase couldnt have proceeded without the personal pension 
transfer. Seen in this light, Park Hall knowingly facilitated a transaction on an execution-only basis 
that it knew wouldnt  have  been in Mr Hs overall best interest.   
Given this, Park Hall should have refused to transact. Or it could have done more to highlight the 
potential implications  of what Mr H was proposing to do given that it knew Mr Hs other transfer was 
inadvisable. This would have taken Park Hall into an advisory process  which it may have wanted to 
avoid and Mr H may not have been thankful for. But Park Hall had to exercise its judgment here. And 
given what it knew about Mr Hs plans, facilitating this part of the transfer on an execution-only  basis 
wasnt the right approach.
However, for the same  reasons as given above, it seems to me a different approach by Park Hall 
wouldnt have made a difference here. Mr H was willing to go against Park Halls advice, as was 
Mrs H. Not coincidently, Mr H appears to have taken direction from a different party  the introducer   
rather than from his adviser. He had a demonstrable interest in investing in property and was at least  
warned about some  of the risks of commercial property investment even if he wasnt given advice in 
this area. And Mr and Mrs H had previously tried, and failed, to invest in Harlequin.  Given  all this, I 
think Mr H would, likely, have transferred his pensions and invested in Harlequin whatever Park Halls 
actions. 
It follows that I dont intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to not 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN0217455