K820x#14complaint
Ms C and others are executors for the late Mrs Cs estate. They  bring a complaint against  
Santander UK Plc as it wont refund money Mrs C lost when she fell victim  to an investment 
scam.
 
Ill only refer to Ms C throughout, (and call her the representative  to avoid any confusion), 
as she is the lead party bringing  the complaint and whom we have been corresponding with 
on behalf of the estate.  
background
In March 2015, Santander became alerted to Mrs C potentially being  the victim of an 
investment scam when  it was asked by police  for information. As a result it opened a fraud 
investigation and contacted Mrs C about transactions  she had been making. It also arranged  
for police to visit her. I understand that Mrs C didnt  have any concerns about payments she 
had made,  but as the police were  still concerned,  they contacted a family member.   
In June 2015 a power  of attorney was registered  on Mrs Cs accounts with Santander. She 
sadly died in July 2015 and Santander was notified  of her death  in the following September.
Around this time, following a police investigation, two people  were charged in connection  
with a wine investment  fraud.  It transpires Mrs C was one of the investors that had been 
defrauded. As a result of the investigation  and subsequent court  action, the estate received 
back £124,064.78. 
In 2017, the representative complained  to Santander about payments made by Mrs C from 
her accounts. She didnt  think  Santander  had treated  Mrs C fairly by allowing the payments 
to be made.  Santander  was satisfied it had spoken with Mrs C on each occasion as it was 
concerned about  the payment requests, but that they were ultimately completed on her 
insistence. It also referred to the police involvement  in 2015. It therefore  didnt  believe  it had 
acted outside  of the terms and conditions of the accounts or failed in its duties or obligations.
   
The representative asked  us to look into the matter. She said Mrs C had been disabled and 
suffering with a brain injury and so wasnt mentally  capable of understanding  the risks of the 
transactions she was making. She also complained this had been going  on since  2009, and 
so any police action  in 2015  was too late. 
It was unclear to our investigator which transactions the estate was saying should never 
have been allowed.  As the representative had provided information about  two wine 
companies that Mrs C had invested  into, which had turned out to be fraudulent,  the 
investigator concentrated on those which were to wine companies.  And she upheld the 
complaint as she felt the payments were highly suspicious and out of character; and as 
Santander said it had been concerned, it should  have done more  to raise  its concerns 
sooner. The investigator  recommended  to Santander that it reimburse the estate. 
Santander disagreed and has asked  for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.  
The transactions
Unfortunately, Mrs C died soon after family members had been made aware she might have 
been the victim of fraud.  And the estate  hasnt provided a list of the transactions which it 
thinks should be reimbursed  this is the starting  position I would  expect for any complaint of 
Ref: DRN01093202this nature. It also appears that Mrs C received payments from businesses that we know  
were defrauding investors. So it would appear  that some of Mrs Cs investments may have 
been genuine. The representative  has acknowledged recently that there  were  some genuine 
and some fraudulent  investments, but she cannot  distinguish which  or provide any more 
information than she already has.
This has made this case quite difficult. Mrs C held a number of accounts with Santander.  It 
has provided us with a transaction  list from when  the accounts were  opened,  to closure.  
They show  she was making  and receiving regular and numerous sizeable  transactions, 
including in relation to investments. For example, in August 2012, Mrs C received around 
£255,000 as a result of share  dealing.   And  she attempted to pay out a cheque  for a similar 
amount just a few days later.  This is by no means the only example; Mrs C was regularly in 
receipt of and making payments  from anywhere between a few hundred pounds to many  
thousands of pounds.  And these included share dividends, proceeds from investment 
businesses and others.  
The representative has provided some information  about two wine investment companies  
Blakeney Bridge  Wine Ltd which  was discovered  to be part of an investment scam involving 
a number of companies  and wound up on the direction of the High Court  in November 2015; 
and Clarex Wines whose perpetrators were imprisoned  in 2017. But these  are the only 
companies that we have  been provided  any information  about. 
In the absence of a specific list of transactions from the estate, or any other evidence that 
other transactions made  by Mrs C were  made  as a result of an investment scam, its fair that 
I only consider those transactions which were made to the two specific wine investment 
companies mentioned.   I know  the investigator  also included another wine investment 
company, but my research has shown that company was genuine, albeit that it went  into 
administration  scammers were targeting customers of the company rather  than the 
company itself being a scam.  I therefore  havent included this. 
Below is a table containing details  of the payments which  I will consider. This table includes 
the transactions from all of Mrs Cs accounts  held with Santander.
Date Debit amount Credit amount To/from Method
28/05/2012 £3,810 Blakeney Bridge card
03/09/2012 £165,000 Blakeney Bridge transfer
31/10/2012 £20,000 Blakeney Bridge transfer
30/11/2012 £9,000 Blakeney Bridge transfer
31/01/2013 £23,000 Clarex Wines transfer
06/02/2013 £34,000 Clarex Wines transfer
16/02/2013 £8,000 Clarex Wines transfer
22/02/2013 £2,000 Clarex Wines transfer
26/04/2013 £5,000 Clarex Wines transfer
28/05/2013 £18,000 Clarex Wines transfer
11/06/2013 £30,000 Clarex Wines transfer
20/06/2013 £109,000 Clarex Wines transfer
26/06/2013 £100,000 Clarex Wines transfer
01/07/2013 £30,000 Clarex Wines transfer
09/09/2013 £3,000 Clarex Wines transfer
12/06/2014 £9,900 Blakeney Bridge card
10/07/2014 £3,750 Blakeney Bridge card 
10/07/2014 £1,000 Blakeney Bridge card
Ref: DRN01093203I issued my provisional findings on 21 May 2021,  explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
the complaint.  
I said:
Mrs C received back £58,000 from her investments with Clarex Wine. The estate also 
received back £124,064.78  following the court action  in relation to the same business.  Mrs C 
invested a total of £516,460 with both businesses. As funds totalling £182,064.78 have  been  
paid to Mrs C or her estate already, that leaves £334,395.22 for me to consider. 
The representative has complained that Mrs C has been scammed  since  2009, and that she 
was disabled and had a brain  injury which meant she was not equipped mentally to know the 
difference between  a sound financial investment and fraud. However, Santander has 
provided evidence  to the show  the earliest  an account was open with it was 2011. So if the 
representative is right, it would appear  some of her concerns relate  to a period before 
Santanders involvement, so is not something  I can comment on here. And although Mrs C 
was disabled, I havent been  presented with any persuasive evidence that she was mentally 
incapable of handling her finances. Wine is a genuine investment area. The representative 
has provided some correspondence  between Mrs C and the bonded warehouse  (where I 
understand wine was stored and transferred between accounts and such like). Mrs Cs 
instructions and queries were clear,  concise, and coherent such that it would appear Mrs C 
was capable of handling her affairs. Not only that, her accounts also show that she held 
numerous different  types of investment, such as shares in single companies  and other 
portfolios. Contrary to the representatives assertions it would  appear  Mrs C had quite a 
sophisticated investment  portfolio and the experience that came with that. 
Although these transactions took place sometime ago now, between  2012 and 2014, fraud 
and scams  were and continue to be ever more sophisticated. Even the most  savvy of 
investors, and the most experienced of people, from all walks  of life and professions fall 
victim to such  scams.  But that of itself doesnt mean  the person scammed isnt mentally  
equipped to make investment decisions more generally or would necessarily have  been  able 
to spot a scam here.  In the absence of persuasive  evidence otherwise, I proceed on the 
basis that Mrs C was of sound mind  and able to handle her own financial affairs.  
There isnt any dispute that Mrs C authorised the payments  out of her account to the 
scammers. She was deceived into believing she was making  legitimate investments into 
various different  wines. She received correspondence such  as invoices, confirmation of wine 
being bought and sold for her portfolio and even  money back  into her account. These all 
likely led to an air of authenticity about what was taking place.  
The payments from Mrs C were authorised even though she was the victim of a scam. She 
either used  her security  credentials to make  card payments, or she went to branch. So, 
although she didnt  intend to get scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
(which apply to these transactions) and the general  terms and conditions  of bank accounts, 
Mrs C is presumed liable  in the first instance.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time, I consider Santander 
should fairly and reasonably:
Ref: DRN01093204Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
I am aware  that Santander  considers too high a standard has been  applied to what is 
expected of it in terms of raising concerns and preventing a consumer from coming to 
financial harm. I am also aware of the recent Philipp v Barclays  Bank plc judgment where the 
judge took a different view about the so-called Quincecare duty on a bank to protect  
customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. Im not suggesting the Quincecare 
duty applies to this case. And notwithstanding  what  the judge  said, we have a duty to resolve 
complaints based  on what  we think is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of the 
case, taking into account not just the law, but also regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what  I consider to have  been good industry practice at the time.
Mrs Cs first payment to a scammer was in May 2012 for £3,810.  Prior  to this she had paid a 
cheque out of her accounts for £30,000. She had also received sizeable transactions into 
her accounts. Im therefore  not persuaded there is anything uncharacteristic  or unusual 
about this payment, such that I would have  expected it to trigger  any fraud  alerts  before her 
instruction to make the payment was followed. 
The next payment  to a scammer  was for £165,000. I think the reasonable person would 
agree that was objectively a large  transaction. However,  that doesnt necessarily mean its 
uncharacteristic for this particular consumer. Mrs C had received a payment into her account 
from an investment, of over £255,000, just a few days before. And she had attempted 
sending a cheque  for the same amount shortly after. And a cheque  for £104,000 did debit 
her account  just a few days after the transaction in question.  The  table above  shows the 
other transactions made.  A review of Mrs Cs transactions across the three accounts these 
payments were made  from, shows that she was regularly receiving and sending payments of 
many thousands of pounds, for amounts of both more and less than the transactions  listed  
above. It therefore doesnt seem  to me that the transactions  were necessarily unusual or 
uncharacteristic such that I would have expected Santander to intervene.  
Nevertheless, Santander has argued  that it did intervene on all the of transactions carried  
out in branch (those listed as transfers). So I have considered whether it did enough; and if it 
didnt, whether things  would  have  happened differently, such that it ought  to reimburse the 
estate. 
Santander doesnt have any notes of the discussions  it had with Mrs C when making the 
transactions in branch. This is unfortunate, but not surprising given the length of time since  
the transactions took place. What  it has told us is based on its usual processes and 
procedures  what should have happened  and recollections from a previous branch 
manager who had often dealt with Mrs C. Were told that a series  of questions would have 
Ref: DRN01093205been asked about the transactions  and a scam warning given, with the results from those 
questions being  a pay or no pay outcome. If the outcome was no pay the process was to 
contact its fraud contact centre, who would then have further discussions with the account 
holder  recordings of the calls arent available. The managers  recollections  are that Mrs C 
was questioned on each occasion and that she was largely met with a no pay response  but 
that as she was insistent on making the transactions they went ahead.   
Without records of the discussions  its very difficult to know whether any warnings  given 
were sufficient or whether the bank should  have gone further.  But even if I thought  the bank 
ought to have done more,  I dont think this would have stopped  the transactions being  made.  
I say this because  generally a warning in relation to investment scams  would be to discuss 
matters with a financial  adviser and to carry out research - including  with the Financial 
Conduct Authority  - to ensure the investment was legitimate before going ahead with any 
transactions. 
As I have mentioned  before,  wine is a legitimate investment area.  I understand from the 
communication between  the bonded  warehouse and Mrs C that she had a broker who was 
advising her on her wine investments. I dont  know if that person was a financial adviser (and 
so authorised by the regulator  for financial advice)  or simply a wine broker.  But she 
nevertheless had someone  she was discussing the wine investments with. And as the 
investments were for wine, which is an unregulated  investment,  they wouldnt have 
appeared on the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  website. Both businesses were  registered on 
Companies House,  and aside from an article about high prices by Blakeney Bridge in 2013, I 
havent been able to locate any information  on-line that would indicate Mrs C would have 
been able to uncover the businesses  were  fraudulent. So even if Santander had warned Mrs 
C that she might be being scammed and that she ought to speak with someone and carry 
out research,  Im not persuaded that would have  uncovered the potential for fraud,  such that 
she would  have been deterred from making  payment. In saying this, Im mindful that the 
police were corresponding with her as early  as November 2013 about her investments with 
Clarex Wines and that some of her wine had been restrained while an investigation was 
ongoing. Yet despite knowing the police were  investigating some  of her investments, Mrs C 
continued to make wine investments with Blakeney  Bridge  (albeit  for much  smaller sums). 
And when  the police contacted her in 2015, she remained unconcerned  about  her 
investments. 
Given Santanders concerns at the time of the transactions,  I have thought very carefully 
about whether  it would have been  justified in refusing to follow Mrs Cs instructions to send 
money, following  its attempted interventions.  This would be a significant step for any bank 
given its regulatory  obligations as a payment  services provider not to delay instructions 
unduly. And Ive borne  in mind that even  if Santander  ought to have done more,  a bank 
could be held legally liable for losses  including investment losses - in refusing to allow  a 
customer access to their money. I think if Santander  had refused to allow the transactions, 
that would  likely have  prompted a complaint or some other contact  from Mrs C insisting 
payment be made. So even if Santander  had taken such drastic action, I think Mrs C would 
probably have  taken steps  to make sure payments were executed in accordance with her 
legal mandate.  
It follows that Im not currently  minded to find Santander should reimburse any of the 
transactions to the estate  Im not persuaded further intervention by Santander at the 
material times would  have resulted in Mrs C uncovering the potential scams  and so ceasing 
to make payments.
Ref: DRN01093206Santander has confirmed  it has nothing further to add. The representative  doesnt  accept the 
outcome and disagrees with the findings.  In summary, she has said:
Mrs C wasnt  an experienced  investor;  she inherited her portfolio and until the death 
of her financial adviser in 2009, the portfolio was managed by him. Mrs C didnt get a 
new financial adviser and she had no experience in making investments. 
Mrs C was brain damaged as a result of an accident  many years ago, making her 
completely incompetent  of making rational decisions. In support  of this, she has 
provided some medical information  from 2015. That information shows Mrs C lacked 
capacity to make decisions about her health,  and the medical professional  doubted 
she had capacity to manage her finances.  
The representative believes  Santander is guilty of wilful neglect and the fact there are 
no notes of the discussions between the bank is extremely worrying,  completely 
unacceptable and goes to prove the lack of checks done. She considers not enough 
was done to support a vulnerable client who clearly showed signs of mental  instability 
through her erratic  dealings with the bank. 
It is incorrect to assume Mrs C would have found another  way to pay the scammers if 
the bank had refused her requests and believes Mrs Cs husband  would have been 
alerted to the seriousness of the situation and intervened; the bank didnt notify 
anyone and her family were  kept in the dark. 
Further to the information provided, we asked more questions of the representative:
The medical information suggested  it was Mrs C and her husband  that had made a 
wine investment. The representative has confirmed  it was only Mrs C making the 
investments. 
We asked what provision the representative and/or the family had put in place to 
manage Mrs Cs finances if she had been deemed incapable of handling her own 
affairs. The representative has said there was an attempt to get Mrs C sectioned  
under the Mental  Health Act in 2013/2014, which was unsuccessful  and so they 
managed her with medication instead. She also explained that no provisions were 
put in place as Mrs Cs mental  capacity hadnt necessarily been brought to her 
attention; but she was on a list of concern at the GP. She has also explained  they 
had no idea Mrs C had the amount of funds she did and were only made  aware of 
this when the Fraud Squad turned up at the house. The representative added  that 
Mrs C was extremely hostile to them assisting  in her affairs  and it wasnt until she 
was very ill that she agreed to a power  of attorney.  
Mrs Cs husband had been in the bank with her, but the bank wouldnt discuss 
anything with him as it was confidential.  
The representative has questioned a comment within  my decision that the estate  hasnt 
provided a list of transactions which it thinks should  be reimbursed, as she believes it was 
obvious the transactions in question  are detailed in the bank account copies and believes 
this is enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the representative feels very strongly about this complaint.  And I would like to 
reassure her and the other executors that I have  considered the further  information  provided 
Ref: DRN01093207very carefully. But having done so, Ive not been  persuaded to alter my provisional findings.  
As I have set out my provisional findings  above,  rather than repeat those here I have 
focussed on responding to the representatives  points.  
Firstly, I turn to the representatives question about  a comment  I made  about  the list of 
transactions. In any complaint of this nature we would expect those bringing the complaint to 
know which transactions they are disputing as being  the result  of a scam.  Here, Mrs C held 
several accounts with Santander over several years, with many hundreds if not thousands of 
transactions having been made.  As  an impartial party  it isnt for us to second guess which  
transactions are genuine and which Mrs C was duped into making. And the representative 
acknowledged herself that some  transactions were genuine but couldnt  provide information 
on which  this is borne out to some extent  by Mrs C receiving funds back  as a result of 
some of the wine investments she made. But we dont know which  were genuine  it could  
have been the transaction  for £165,000 or £9,000 or any combination of the transactions 
listed above. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for us to investigate genuine transactions as 
potentially fraudulent if there is no potential case to answer. A person making an allegation  
does have the initial burden  of proving there  is a case to answer  on the balance of 
probabilities. An accused wrongdoer does not have to do all the legwork (to disprove the 
allegations); and nor does  the tribunal, whose role is just to adjudicate independently and 
impartially on the evidence and arguments  which the parties  choose  to present. 
Nevertheless we do understand that where  a complaint has been  brought  on behalf of 
another, or on behalf of an estate,  such detail may be more  difficult  to provide.  And so I put 
together the above list based  on the information provided about  two wine investment 
businesses that had been involved in criminal  proceedings. That was arguably going further 
than strictly required  but felt the fair and reasonable thing to do in the circumstances. 
Along with the investigator,  I felt this was a fair place  to start given what  we know about 
them. Neither the representative nor Santander has disputed that list as being a fair list of 
transactions to investigate  and decide  on, and so, in the absence  of anything  better, the list 
remains my basis  for deciding this case.   
The representative has provided information  and evidence  in support of Mrs C not being 
mentally capable  of handling  her financial affairs. Although I accept the medical information 
provided shows that in May 2015  a consultant  very much doubted Mrs C had the capacity to 
manage her finances, this is nearly a year after the last transaction  in dispute was made.  
And although the representative has said they had earlier attempted to help Mrs C but it 
wasnt accepted  or successful, she has also explained that no provisions were put in place 
to help with Mrs Cs finances as her mental capacity hadnt been brought  to the 
representatives attention. I do question if close family members werent fully aware of 
Mrs Cs mental  state or werent concerned enough  to put provisions in place to manage her 
affairs and finances (a court order could have been obtained if necessary) how a corporate 
body such as Santander ought to have known or realised Mrs C may not have  been  fully 
aware of what she was doing,  such  that it ought to have put additional provisions in place. 
The representative has referred to Mrs Cs erratic dealings with the bank. I presume she is 
referring to the transactions  themselves as she hasnt put forward anything  else, and I 
accept that with the benefit of hindsight the representative sees these as erratic. But as I 
found before,  Mrs C was receiving and sending large sums to and from her accounts on a 
very regular  basis. Im not persuaded the transactions  themselves are erratic or are 
evidence in and of themselves of a lack of mental  capacity. 
Ref: DRN01093208I understand why the representative is worried about  the lack of notes of any of the 
discussions Santander had in branch with Mrs C about the transactions.  That is 
understandable given  the nature of what happened. But I disagree that is proof of a lack of 
checks actually taking  place. Businesses  arent required to keep  information  or records  
indefinitely; that would  be contrary to data protection requirements. And Mrs C ceased  to be 
a customer in 2015. That Santander no longer has records  doesnt  mean  the checks  werent  
done  although I accept  that is a possibility  it just means there  are no longer any records.  
I can only fairly ask Santander  to reimburse  transactions if I find it should  have done more to 
alert Mrs C to possible fraud and that would have resulted in the fraud  being  uncovered  
and/or the transactions not taking place. As set out in my provisional findings,  even had I 
found Santander should have done  more, I wasnt persuaded  that would have resulted in the 
transactions not taking place. 
Having considered the further information  provided  in response to my provisional  decision, 
Im still not persuaded the fraud would have been uncovered or that the transactions  
wouldnt have been carried  out. Firstly, and as set out previously,  the information  that was 
available about  the two wine investment businesses didnt point to either of them being 
illegitimate in any way, for the reasons already given. The representative  hasnt provided  any 
information to contradict  that or to show it would have become apparent. And secondly both 
the medical information and the representatives submissions since my provisional  decision 
suggest Mrs C was very strong-willed and unlikely to have listened to advice not to proceed 
(the representative has said Mrs C was extremely hostile to being helped  with her affairs). 
This accords  with Santanders submissions about its branch staffs  interactions with Mrs C.  
Given that, I consider  it highly unlikely that Mrs C would have decided  not to proceed with 
the transactions, even if I found  Santander ought  to have  provided more or better warnings.
Finally, the representative  believes if Santander  had refused to carry out the transactions 
Mrs Cs husband would  have been  alerted to the seriousness of the situation and intervened, 
but the bank didnt notify anyone and kept the family in dark.  Again I fully appreciate and 
understand the points the representative is making. But unless Mrs C had provided express 
permission for Santander to discuss  her accounts  with family members, it wouldnt have 
been lawfully able to notify the family of any concerns  to have done  so would have 
breached data protection obligations.  And Im not quite sure how Mrs Cs husband would 
have been alerted to what was happening simply from Santander refusing to carry out some 
or all of the transactions; the accounts were  solely Mrs Cs and the representative has said 
that she was extremely  hostile to anyone helping  with her affairs, so Im not persuaded 
Mrs C would necessarily have turned to her husband or extended family in that situation. 
I have thought about this case very carefully,  and I understand and accept this has been 
difficult for all concerned. But I remain unpersuaded that further  intervention by Santander at 
material times would  have resulted in Mrs C (or the bank) uncovering the potential  scams or 
deciding not to make (or allow) the transactions in question.  It follows that I wont  be asking 
Santander to reimburse  any of them.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors to 
Mrs Cs estate to accept  or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
Claire Hopkins
Ref: DRN01093209ombudsman
Ref: DRN0109320