K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about charges applied to his current account by Lloyds Bank PLC between  
2012 and 2018 while he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
background
Mr S has a current  account with Lloyds  and since 2012 has incurred around 14 charges 
when there  wasnt enough money  to cover a direct debit payment. 
In 2018 Mr S complained to Lloyds and explained hes experienced  financial  difficulties  
which led to the charges.  Mr S asked for a refund. Lloyds responded but didnt agree the 
charges had been incorrectly applied  so didnt refund them.  
Mr S complaint was referred to this service and an investigator looked at whatd happened. 
But they thought the charges  had been correctly applied  and noted Mr S hadnt told Lloyds 
hed experienced financial difficulties until 2017.  Mr S didnt accept the investigators view 
and asked for the complaint to be appealed  so its been passed  to me to make a decision.  
Mr S is represented by Mrs A in bringing  the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as the investigator,  for broadly the same reasons. 
I understand Mr S has experienced  financial  difficulties over the course of several years 
which led to charges being incurred  on his current account. Mrs As recently told us Mr S 
continues to face difficulties and would  like his charges refunded.  Whilst I have sympathy for 
Mr S circumstances, businesses are allowed to charge customers  when direct  debits are 
returned unpaid  or if an account goes into an unplanned overdraft. 
In 2009 the courts decided that charges couldnt  be challenged on the basis  that theyre too 
high or unfair. That means banks can apply charges so long as thats done in line with the 
account terms and conditions. And Ive looked at the charges applied to Mr S account since 
2012 and I can see theyve been  applied  in line with the account terms. As the charges have 
been added  to Mr S account correctly Ive not found Lloyds made  an error. 
Mrs A has explained that Mr S has experienced financial difficulties for some  years and feels 
Lloyds shouldve been aware  of his circumstances. Whilst I can see charges going back  to 
2012, I have to take into account that the account  didnt  incur charges every month and it 
was only ever one direct  debit that caused  issues.
And Mrs A has confirmed that Mr S didnt tell Lloyds about the financial problems he was 
having until 2017. When Mr S did notify  Lloyds he was experiencing financial difficulties it 
gave him details of a team that could provide support and cancelled the direct debit that was 
causing the charges to be applied. But Mr S didnt take Lloyds up on the offer to discuss  his 
circumstances as Mrs A says he received advice elsewhere. I can see Lloyds has also 
waived three  charges  between 2016  and 2017.  
Ref: DRN02051092Businesses are required to treat customers experiencing financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But that doesnt mean they have to refund interest  and charges. In this 
case, I think Lloyds  has acted positively and sympathetically by waiving some charges and 
offering the services  of its financial support team to Mr S. Mrs A has recently  told us that Mr 
S is still struggling financially. Id recommend Mr S works with Lloyds and discussed his 
options to see what assistance is available. 
Im satisfied that the charges  have been  correctly applied, in line with the account term, and 
that Lloyds acted positively and sympathetically  when it was told about  Mr S financial 
difficulties. I havent  found any evidence that Lloyds has made a mistake by applying  
charges to Mr S account so Im not telling it to refund them  or take any further  action to 
resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 March  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0205109