K821x#15Complaint
Ms V complains  about the way Santander UK Plc handled a Help to Buy (HTB) ISA 
application. 
Background
In April 2019, shortly after the start of the new financial year, Ms V visited a branch of 
Santander to apply for a HTB ISA. Ms V had an existing ISA and the advisor she met with 
arranged for a HTB ISA to be opened. £1,200 was transferred from Ms Vs existing ISA into 
the new ISA. Ms V says she agreed  to make monthly payments of £200 into the HTB ISA. 
In May 2019  Ms V noticed her new HTB ISA wasnt  showing on her online banking facility  
and contacted Santander. Santander explained Ms V didnt qualify for the new HTB ISA 
because she had already made a payment into the existing ISA during the new tax year. Ms 
V complained and HSBC offered £100  and apologised that she had been  misled about 
whether she was eligible for a HTB ISA. Santander  refused to reopen the HTB ISA. 
Ms V referred her complaint to this service  and it was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator looked at the ISA rules and thought  Santander had made an error by closing the 
HTB ISA. Santander went  on to confirm it couldve reopened Ms Vs HTB ISA after she 
complained. Santander increased  its offer by £300 to reflect the 25% bonus Ms V wouldve 
received on the initial  deposit she made  of £1,200.  
Our investigator upheld  Ms Vs complaint and asked  Santander  to increase the 
compensation offered in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused from £100 to 
£350, taking the total award  to £650. Ms V accepted, but Santander asked to appeal.  
Santander didnt  feel the increased award fairly reflected the impact of its error on Ms V.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms V is upset  in this case. She has told us that she took a day off from 
work to open  an account that Santander later closed on the incorrect  basis  that she wasnt 
eligible for it. By the time our investigator and Santander agreed that Ms V was eligible for 
the HTB ISA, the account was closed to new applications. So, it hasnt  been  possible to 
open a new HTB ISA to replace the one that was closed.  
Santander has offered  £300 to reflect the 25% bonus Ms V wouldve received on the initial  
deposit she made. And Ms V has confirmed she is willing to accept. 
I note Santanders  comments in response to the investigator concerning the increase  in 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused from £100 to £350. But, I agree with the 
investigator, there has been a significant  impact on the consumer in this case  so I think the 
fairest approach  is to increase the level of award. 
Santander has checked with its ISA team and confirmed  the account  couldve been 
reopened. So, I think the compensation  also needs  to take account of the disappointment Ms 
V has suffered because  she cant now use the HTB ISA. I think its reasonable to say 
Santander missed out on opportunity to rectify its mistake when Ms V complained.  
Ref: DRN06219612Ms V has also told us she missed out on a days work as she attended Santanders branch 
to apply for a product that was ultimately  closed in error. And Ms V was saving towards 
buying a property and I understand she found Santanders actions particularly frustrating. I 
can see that the situation has caused  a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience to 
Ms V and I dont think Santanders offer of £100 reflects  what  happened. 
Ive considered the level of award  recommended by the investigator and Im satisfied a total 
of £350 fairly  reflects  the impact of Santanders  errors in this case.  I also think Santanders 
offer of £300 to reflect the 25% bonus Ms V wouldve received on her initial  deposit  is 
reasonable in the circumstances. As a result, Im going to uphold Ms Vs complaint and 
direct Santander to pay her a total of £350 for the trouble and upset caused and £300, 
representing the bonus she wouldve received on the initial  deposit. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct  
Santander UK Plc to pay Ms V a total of £650  (less  any compensation already  paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2021.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0621961