K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Total Home Loans  Direct Limited, trading  as THL Direct (THL)  lent to 
him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr B was given three loans by THL in April and May 2010. Each of the loans was repayable 
in a single  instalment, and Mr B made his repayments as planned. A summary of Mr Bs 
borrowing from THL is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 22/04/2010 30/04/2010 £ 155
2 01/05/2010 28/05/2010 £ 200
3 28/05/2010 30/06/2010 £ 235
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think THL had 
been wrong to give any of the loans to Mr B. So he didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr B didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
THL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that THL should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN04427502Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
The loans that were given to Mr B all took place a number  of years ago. So it isnt entirely 
surprising that THL doesnt hold as much  information as it might  about what happened  at the 
time. THL has said that it asked Mr B for information  about  his income and his normal  
expenditure, but that it no longer retains  this information. But I can see, from some other 
complaints that Mr B has made about other  short term lenders, the information he supplied 
to other  lenders  around the same time. On balance I think it likely that hed have given  
similar information to THL.
I think that the checks THL says it did before agreeing each of the loans were proportionate.  
The amounts that Mr B needed to repay were small compared with the income  he was 
earning. Given what Mr B needed to repay  on his loans, what was apparent  about his 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for THL to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable  before agreeing each of the loans. 
Mr B has said that he became unemployed shortly before he asked for the final loan. He 
says that he told THL about this when he made his loan application but was told to apply 
regardless. So he thinks, as a minimum, I should see THLs actions in agreeing the final loan 
as being irresponsible.
THL has said that unless  a consumer said they were  in employment a loan application  would 
have been automatically rejected before it was even considered  by a member of staff. So it 
thinks it unlikely that Mr B would have  been allowed a loan if he had said he was 
unemployed. And it has no records of him declaring his unemployment in its notes  from the 
time.
From the evidence I have  seen, it does appear that Mr B became unemployed before taking 
the final loan.  But I havent seen anything  to make me think  that was something that he told 
THL about when  applying  for the final loan. And given the proximity  of his unemployment to 
the loan request I doubt it is something that THL could have discovered from even more 
thorough checks than I think were proportionate. So I dont  agree with Mr B that I should  
conclude this loan,  or either of the two previous loans, shouldnt have been  agreed by the 
lender. It follows that I dont uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Total Home  Loans  Direct  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Ref: DRN04427503Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0442750