K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Elevate  Credit  International Limited trading as Sunny lent to him irresponsibly.  He 
says he had debt problems that Sunny should  have seen and then not lent to him.  
background
This complaint is about one running  credit account and nine instalment loans Sunny 
provided to Mr T between October 2014  and September 2015.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 26/10/2014running credit account  
with a £250 limit19/12/2014
2 02/01/2015 £250 6 31/03/2015
3 19/03/2015 £100 6 29/05/2015
4 08/04/2015 £50 6 30/04/2015
5 14/04/2015 £100 6 30/04/2015
6 09/05/2015 £150 6 29/05/2015
7 11/05/2015 £50 6 29/05/2015
8 01/06/2015 £250 6 outstanding
9 22/08/2015 £50 6 outstanding
10 13/09/2015 £100 6 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He agreed with Sunny that compensation  
should be paid in respect of loan 1. But he also thought Mr T should receive compensation in 
respect of loans 6 to 10. 
As far as I can see both Sunny and the consumers  representative didnt respond to what  the 
adjudicator said.  So as no agreement has been  reached the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN04765002But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ts complaint 
in part and have explained why below.
Sunny has agreed  that it shouldnt have approved loan 1. And Mr T didnt disagree with our 
adjudicators opinion about  loans  2 to 5. Because  of this its not clear  if there  is any ongoing 
dispute about these loans. So I wont be commenting fully on them but I do agree with the 
business decision to uphold loan 1 and the adjudicators  decision to not uphold loans 2 to 5 
for broadly the same reasons as they said. And they were  part of the borrowing  relationship 
Mr T had with Sunny.  So they are something  I will take into account when considering  the 
other loans  he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 6 to 10 because  I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending  
history with Mr T, with a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN04765003Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr T was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr T had been indebted to Sunny for just under seven months.  And he 
was committing to make repayments for a further 6 months. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr T was having to borrow further to cover  the 
hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ts 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ts first loan was for £150 and loan 6 was also was for £150. So, again,  Sunny 
ought to have known that Mr T was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing  need.
Throughout all of the time he borrowed  from Sunny Mr T generally  had more  than 
one loan active at the same  time.  When this wasnt the case he was provided  with a 
new loan within a short time of settling a previous one. He often had more than one 
loan running at the same time
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  10 was 
taken out just under a year after Mr Ts first. Mr T had paid large  amounts  of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mr T lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ts ability to access  mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I agree with the offer Sunny has made about loan 1 and Im also upholding the complaint 
about loans 6 to 10 Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loan 1 and loans 6 to 10;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 1 from Mr Ts credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 10 should be removed from 
Mr Ts credit file.
If Mr T still owes Sunny any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loans Sunny 
should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding balances. Sunny  
should then re-work  these accounts  as if all payments made by Mr T went to towards the 
principal. But importantly,  Sunny needs  to make sure that Mr T doesnt repay more than the 
principal amount borrowed. 
Ref: DRN04765004If after doing this Mr T hasnt repaid the principal  he borrowed  Sunny can deduct  this from 
the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr T has already paid enough  to repay  the principal 
then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
And if Sunny no longer  owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction  due to the amount 
owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it 
from the amount  it needs to pay Mr T.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ts complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0476500