K821x#15Complaint
Mr B considers that he was the victim of an investment scam.  He  complains  that Santander 
UK plc didnt  do enough to help him recover his money  specifically, by not progressing  his 
chargeback claim in respect  of the investment  payments he made.
Background
In early July 2018  Mr B made five payments  totalling  £19,662.81,  using his Santander VISA 
debit card, to a merchant apparently offering binary  options trading.  But  a short  while later 
Mr B because suspicious, and he did some  research  which suggested  the merchant was 
operating an investment  scam.  He tried to get his money back  but says that his requests 
were either cancelled or ignored.  Mr B later discovered that the Financial Conduct Authority 
had issued a warning about  the merchant, evidence of which  was provided to Santander.
The bank raised a chargeback claim with VISA under Reason Code 13.5: misrepresentation. 
The merchant  the alleged binary  options trading platform   defended that chargeback  
claim, and Santander  did not take it any further.
Our investigator concluded that Santander  should have pursued the chargeback  claim more  
robustly than it did, through to the final arbitration  stage if need  be.  If the bank had done so, 
the investigator considered it more likely than not that the claim would have been upheld  and 
Mr B would have received  his money back.   The investigator also noted  given the nature of 
the transactions, including  that they were of high value  and unusual  for Mr B  that 
Santander should reasonably have raised  the possibility of fraud with him before the 
payments were initially made.  
Despite a number  of reminders and time extensions, Santander has not responded 
substantively to the investigators  conclusions.  We cannot fairly  let matters drift,  especially  
when so much money is at stake.   It therefore  falls to me to determine this complaint 
formally.  Im  satisfied that Santander  has received fair notice of our intention to do so.
My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments in order to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  Where the 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, and/or contradictory  as some of it is here  I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I consider is most likely  to have 
happened in light of the evidence that is available and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
To begin with, it seems  to be generally  agreed  by all parties (apart  from the merchant, of 
course) that Mr B was the victim of an investment scam.  It is also true, as the investigator 
outlined, that it was open to Santander to question  the payments before  they were  made.  
Although the investigator said that Mr Bs payments came to £19,136.55  (this was also the 
sum quoted  on Santanders documents),  Mr Bs account statements show that they totalled  
£19,662.81.
 
However, in light of the information we now have about the payments and the underlying 
investment scam, I consider there are only two central questions I need  to address in order 
to determine this complaint. They are:
1.should Santander have pursued the VISA chargeback claim further than it did; and, if so
Ref: DRN023687622.is it likely  that it would then have been successful (at either the pre-arbitration or the final 
arbitration stage)?
As the investigator  previously set out, there  is no obligation on a card issuer   here, 
Santander  to raise  a chargeback claim.  But we consider it to be good practice for a card 
issuer to do so where the right exists  and where,  on the face of the material  that is available, 
there would appear  to be some reasonable prospect of success.  Similarly, if an initial  
chargeback claim is defended we consider that the card issuer should  pursue the claim 
when  for example  the merchants defence appears weak  and/or the cardholder was able 
to produce further  strong supporting evidence.
Although Santander explained to Mr B why it considered the merchants initial  response  to 
the chargeback  claim had been  robust, the bank also accepted that he was likely to have 
been the victim of an investment scam.  In light of this I agree with the investigator when he 
concluded that that information cast doubt on the validity of what the merchant  had said  
such that it was unreasonable for Santander to have decided  that the merchants 
chargeback defence was robust  enough to indicate  that pursuing  the claim was likely to fail. 
In my view, the opposite  was more likely to have been the case.
Santander further defended its own position  by saying that Mr B did not provide  clear 
enough evidence  about the terms and condition surrounding withdrawals and the amount 
that was available in his binary options  trading account when he tried, but failed, to 
withdraw money.  But leaving aside the question of whether  or not the withdrawal terms 
were onerous (as Mr B maintains) it also appears clear   as the investigator set out  that 
when he asked for all his money  back his account balance was said to be USD55,123.92. 
Whilst the merchant  argued that USD40,000 of that was bonuses,  the evidence also shows  
that those bonuses were  pending  that is, they had not been added to Mr Bs account  and 
so were not included  in the money  he had asked to withdraw.  
I have, therefore, come  to the same overall  conclusions as the investigator did  for much  
the same  reasons.  I  am on balance  satisfied that the merchant  was operating  an 
investment scam, and that Santander  knew that was likely to be the case at the time of the 
chargeback.  I am further satisfied that Mr B did not receive the service from the merchant to 
which he was entitled under the terms of his contract  specifically, but not limited to, the 
basis upon which he should have been  permitted to retrieve his money.  
Overall, I consider that the contract  was indeed misrepresented to Mr B and he was, as a 
result, improperly induced  into it when  had the misrepresentation not been made  its 
unlikely that he would  have made the payments he did to the merchant.   I therefore  find, on 
the balance of probabilities, that:
1  Santander should have pursued the chargeback claim further than it did; and
2  had it done so, it is more likely  than not that it would have been successful.
It is now too late for the chargeback claim  to be taken any further.  So the fair way to settle 
this complaint is for Santander to reimburse  Mr B for his losses,  to which  we would usually  
add interest, at an annual  rate of 8% simple.  However, Mr B has explained that his beliefs 
prevent him from receiving interest payments.  So, instead, I consider that he should fairly 
receive an additional and appropriate  lump sum in compensation  which  should  be added  
to the total of £19,662.81 of the payments to be refunded   and which, when it is all rounded 
up to the closest  round  amount figure, comes to £23,500 in total.
Ref: DRN02368763My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I uphold  this complaint.  In 
settlement of it, Santander UK plc should pay to Mr B the sum of £23,500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or to reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0236876