K821x#15complaint
Mr A and Ms S complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative 
(AR) of TenetLime Ltd (TenetLime),  and advised  to invest some  of the proceeds into an 
unregulated investment.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019  (copy attached).   I set out the 
reasons why I intended to uphold Mr A and Ms S complaint against TenetLime.
In summary,  I said that although I wasnt persuaded the AR (1994) had given unsuitable 
mortgage advice,  I felt that advice had been  given  to invest as part of the same process.  
Given Mr A and Ms S circumstances, that investment advice was unsuitable and TenetLime 
should compensate  them  for that.
Mr A and Ms S representative accepted the provisional decision.
TenetLime disagreed and, in summary,  responded saying:
The ombudsman ought to consider causation.   The reason given by the consumers 
for borrowing  funds was to buy a motorhome,  but it appears  they had always  
intended to use the money to invest in Harlequin.
If the investment  was provided to the lender as the intended  use for proceeds,  its 
likely the mortgage  wouldnt have been  approved.
This is not a case where the investment  was made from existing funds; but it believes 
Mr A and Ms S misrepresented  the position  to obtain funds and become indebted.
Had true information  been provided to the lender, the investment would never  have 
been able to happen.
Ive considered this response in the circumstances of what  happened  in order  to review my 
conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I remain of the opinion 
that the complaint should be upheld.
Having considered the comments received in response to my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind in relation to the conclusions reached in that decision.  As  
those reasons are set out in the attached decision I have not repeated  them here, but I will 
address the additional points raised by TenetLime.
I know that on the mortgage application  Mr A and Ms S stated the additional borrowing was 
going to be used to make home improvements and to buy a motorhome.  As I explained in 
my provisional decision, it was for them to decide how they ultimately used the proceeds,  but 
I acknowledge TenetLimes point that its possible the mortgage would not have  been  
approved if the lender knew the proceeds were  to be used to invest.
TenetLime has asked  that I request the mortgage  lender to confirm if its decision to lend to 
Mr A and Ms S would  have been  different  if the Harlequin investment had been stated as the 
Ref: DRN06882082intended use of proceeds.   But I dont feel this is necessary  for me to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  and Ill explain why.
The mortgage application was made in July 2009  and Mr A and Ms S entered the investment  
contract soon after.  Given the proximity of the transactions, the involvement of the 1994 
advisers, and the amount borrowed being  exactly what  was required for the Harlequin 
investment; I think its probable the proceeds were always going to be used to invest. Whilst 
I appreciate why TenetLime says this was a misrepresentation by Mr A and Ms S which  
makes them  responsible, I dont entirely agree.
If the mortgage proceeds were always intended to be used to invest  in Harlequin, the 1994 
advisers would  have been aware.   I have concluded 1994 introduced Mr A and Ms S to 
Harlequin, and advised them to invest, and so it would have known they could have only 
made the investment by raising  funds against their home.  Yet  it was a 1994 adviser who 
had completed the application and issued a recommendations letter  referring to home 
improvements and a motorhome.
So when deciding what  is fair and reasonable I am persuaded  by the fact that 1994 was the 
regulated party that was advising  Mr A and Ms S.  The adviser  was likely to be leading the 
process in order to enable the borrowing to be secured and the investment to be made.   
1994 had an obligation to ensure its customers were treated fairly.  But if a 
misrepresentation was made, the advisers  would have known that, yet proceeded in any 
event.  1994 failed to protect Mr A and Ms S, and given  the wider  circumstances its likely  
the adviser would  have  in fact been the one to suggest how the mortgage application was to 
be completed.
So whilst I cant be certain about  the accuracy of the information given to the lender,  on 
balance I think it would  have been 1994 that led the process and told Mr A and Ms S what 
was required.   So overall, Im satisfied that the complaint should be upheld, and TenetLime  
should be held responsible for its AR, 1994.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint against 
TenetLime Ltd.  To put things right it should  pay to Mr A and Ms S:
A)The £1,000  deposit paid to secure  the Harlequin  investment.
B)The £62,000 additional mortgage  borrowing taken to invest in Harlequin.
C)Any interest payments  Mr A and Ms S have paid to service the £62,000 mortgage, 
but less any contributions they have received from Harlequin towards those costs.
D)8% simple interest per annum  on the amounts calculated  at C), from the date each 
payment was made, to the date of settlement.
E)£500 for the trouble  and upset of having  an interest-only mortgage  without the 
repayment vehicle  that they hoped and expected to use, and so meaning there was a 
realistic prospect of having to sell their home.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Ref: DRN06882083Ross Hammond
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN06882084COPY SECOND PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr A and Ms S complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
TenetLime Ltd (TenetLime), and advised to invest some of the proceeds into an unregulated  
investment.
background
I issued a previous  provisional decision on the complaint (a copy  of which  is attached).  
Mortgage advice was given  to Mr A and Mrs S by 1994 Ltd (1994), an appointed representative of 
TenetLime.  A large part of the mortgage proceeds were invested into an unregulated  off-plan 
property development based overseas (Harlequin).  I set out a detailed background of the 
circumstances around the complaint in that decision  and so have not repeated it here.
My decision  set out why I didnt intend to uphold Mr A and Ms S complaint,  but invited  responses 
from both parties.  In summary I concluded:
The mortgage adviser had considered and discussed the means of repaying the mortgage at 
the time of advice.
Mr A and Ms S had sufficient means to repay the mortgage through other assets, and werent 
reliant upon  the Harlequin  off-plan  investment.
TenetLimes appointed representative had introduced Mr A and Ms S to the Harlequin 
investment, but advice  was given by a third party agent.
TenetLime agreed with my provisional decision and provided no new evidence.  But it re-iterated:
The mortgage recommendation was suitable with appropriate  repayment options in place.
The investment recommendation wasnt made by an agent of TenetLime,  and wasnt a 
regulated product in any event.
Represented by a claims management company  (CMC), Mr A and Ms S disagreed. The CMC made 
a number of further representations in response to the provisional decision and provided a number of 
documents from the time of advice.
Ive reviewed all the representations made and evidence provided, but in summary  the CMC said:
The information provided by TenetLime and what was recorded on the mortgage 
documentation differs.  There is reference to an ISA that didnt  exist and the paperwork refers  
to the sale of their main residence.  But Mr A and Ms S have  always maintained  that returns 
from the Harlequin investment were always intended to repay the mortgage.
The other means of repaying the mortgage  (such as their property in Cyprus)  were only 
mentioned to help secure the mortgage  and get a better rate  not because  they were  ever 
intended to be used as a repayment strategy.
There are questions about the credibility of the statement provided by the third party 
Harlequin agent who said the advisers from 1994  were  not involved in the sale of the 
investment.
It provided documents to show that 1994  had provided investment  analysis and its advisers 
were involved in the investment transaction.
Ref: DRN06882085Ive reviewed everything again in view of the further representations and reconsidered my previous 
conclusions.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am now minded to uphold the complaint.   
I remain of the view that the mortgage  recommendation  itself was not entirely  unsuitable,  but I now 
consider the 1994 advisers were more involved than just introducing Mr A and Mrs S to the Harlequin 
investment. As I believe  the investment advice was sufficiently  closely linked to the mortgage advice,  
TenetLime is responsible  and Ill explain  why.
mortgage advice
I understand that the CMC  has strongly argued that the mortgage was not suitable  for Mr A and Ms S.  
In particular, it has set out the reasons why it considers there  were inconsistencies in what was 
recorded at the time, and the reasons given for the recommendation now.
When 1994 was first approached, Mr A and Ms S had wanted to borrow £35,000 to be used to help 
their daughter purchase a property.  They borrowed an additional £62,000 and it was recorded they 
had wanted to make home improvements and purchase a motorhome.  In fact they used the £62,000  
to make the investment into Harlequin and not for the reasons stated.  It  was for Mr A and Ms S to 
use the mortgage  proceeds as they wished, and they knew what the money was to be used for at the 
time.
This does not mean  that the adviser had no responsibilities in respect of the mortgage.   As has been 
previously explained, the adviser was required to meet the standards set out in MCOB.
Under MCOB 4.7.2R in order for a mortgage to be suitable, the adviser must  have reasonable 
grounds to conclude  that the customer can afford to enter into the regulated  mortgage contract and 
it is appropriate for the needs  and circumstances  of the customer.
The borrowing was taken out on an interest-only basis and Ive previously concluded it was affordable 
for Mr A and Ms S to maintain.  The issue  which  is disputed between the parties  is what the intended  
repayment vehicle was.  
The CMC has explained  Mr A and Ms S were advised the Harlequin  investment would provide the 
means to repay  the borrowing. This may have been the case and their understanding as a result of 
investment advice, but as far as the mortgage advice is concerned, they had means  to repay  the 
borrowing without relying on the investment.
Mr A and Ms S have themselves confirmed  that:
If a repayment plan was needed for mortgage purposes then we did tell them that we would sell our 
house or the property we had in Cyprus  which  is valued at around £200,000.  
They also confirmed  that they had savings  which could be used for repaying part of the mortgage,  
although not in the form of an ISA.
So Im satisfied that there was some discussion about mortgage repayment strategies at the time,  and 
Mr A and Ms S have explained they were willing to provide  details of other plausible  means of 
repayment if required.  The CMC representing them has stated Mr A and Ms S had only provided 
those details in order to help secure the mortgage and get a better  interest rate for the borrowing.  
This demonstrates that they were willing to ensure  details of a repayment vehicle to secure the 
mortgage, and could afford to do so if required.
Ref: DRN06882086So even if the details recorded by the adviser  had not been a suitable method  of repaying  the 
mortgage, Im persuaded  Mr A and Ms S would  have  still proceeded  with the mortgage if asked to 
confirm the use of other assets as a repayment strategy.   Given  this, I cannot say the mortgage 
advice was responsible for the losses they incurred, and so it would  not be fair and reasonable for me 
to compensate them on that basis.
investment advice  - jurisdiction
In my previous provisional decision I commented  upon a statement  provided by the Harlequin  agent 
who said that 1994 was not involved in the sale of Harlequin.  He stated that the only involvement  of 
1994 was by way of an introduction.
The CMC questioned the credibility  of the Harlequin  agents statement, and set out why it believed 
1994 was involved in the investment recommendation.  Having reviewed the evidence provided, Im 
certain the involvement of the 1994  advisers  was more  than just an introduction, and am persuaded 
they did provide advice to Mr A and Ms S.
TenetLime said its appointed representative, 1994,  was not involved in the recommendation to invest 
in Harlequin.   It also commented that the investment isnt a regulated  product and so our Service 
doesnt have jurisdiction to consider it.
It is not disputed that 1994 were authorised  to, and did, provide Mr A and Ms S with regulated 
mortgage advice.  This Service cant consider  all complaints that are referred to us, and our 
jurisdiction is set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules  (DISP) in the FCA Handbook.  In this case 
TenetLime says part of the advice (investment) is not subject  to our jurisdiction, the following are 
relevant considerations:
Under DISP 2.3.1R, we can consider a complaint  under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates  to an 
act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities, (including  regulated 
activities), or any ancillary activities  carried  on by the firm in connection  with those  activities.
Section 39 of the Financial  Services  Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says:
39. Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)-
(a)is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which-
permits or requires  him to carry  on business of a prescribed description, and 
complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b)is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.

(3) The Principal  of an appointed representative  is responsible,  to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Ref: DRN06882087So under s.39, the principal is required to accept responsibly for the business  being  conducted by the 
AR. Case law has confirmed  how this applies  in certain  circumstances.  The words part of in s.39 
allow a principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the business  conducted by an AR.
So, I think there  are important points  that I need to consider when deciding whether Im able to look at 
the investment  element  of this complaint:
what are the specific acts being complained  about;
are the acts being complained about  regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities;
is TenetLime responsible for those activities by reason of agency or vicarious liability.
what are the specific  acts being complained  about
In summary, Mr A and Ms S complain about advice they say was given by 1994,  an appointed 
representative of TenetLime.  They say they were advised  by 1994 to make an investment  into an 
overseas property investment scheme, and in order to raise the funds they were advised to take out a 
mortgage.
are the acts being complained about  regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO) and include  advising  on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment  which is a 
security or a relevant investment (article  53 RAO), and making arrangements for another  person  to 
buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).
Advising on a regulated  mortgage contract  is a regulated  act, as is advising on a collective investment  
scheme, which the Harlequin investment appears to have been.   
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the acts complained about fall within our jurisdiction as 
set out in DISP 3.2.1R.   They relate to acts or omissions in carrying out regulated activities.
is TenetLime responsible for those activities by reason of agency or vicarious liability.
For me to determine that TenetLime  is responsible  for the advice  given to Mr A and Ms S, I must 
consider whether:
Mr and Mrs A were  given the advice by 1994;
whilst  1994 was acting  as its agent; and
the advice was part of the business it authorised 1994 to carry  out.
As set out above, theres no dispute that 1994  gave  Mr A and Ms S regulated mortgage advice. This 
has been accepted by all parties.
TenetLime has claimed that 1994 didnt  make any recommendations in relation to the Harlequin  
investment.  And the Harlequin  agent provided a signed statement advising  he was solely responsible 
for the sale of the Harlequin property investment.
The CMC disagreed with the credibility  of the statement and felt it was contradictory with evidence 
available from the time. Ive reconsidered my earlier conclusions in view of this and am now satisfied  
the advisers from 1994 did make recommendations and were involved in investment beyond  just 
making an introduction to Harlequin. 
Ref: DRN06882088Mr A and Ms S have maintained that it was the advisers  from 1994 that they dealt with about  the 
investment as well as the mortgage.  Having reviewed everything,  I consider that on balance the 
evidence largely supports this to have been the case.
It was recorded that the use of the additional mortgage proceeds was for home improvements 
and a motor home   but the money was not spent on those things.  Instead, the amount of 
additional borrowing was £62,000  the exact amount that was required to pay the deposit 
balance that Mr A and Ms S had contracted to invest  in Harlequin a week before the 
mortgage application (having been introduced  by 1994).
The Harlequin Preliminary Contract dated 11 August 2009 in relation  to the sale of the 
investment off-plan  property was witnessed by one of the advisers at 1994.
1994  provided  receipts for payments made by Mr A and Ms S in relation to the investment.  
The receipts were  issued  on 1994 compliments slips which confirmed it was acting as an 
appointed representative.
-An initial  £1,000 reservation fee payment dated 11 August 2009  a week before  the 
mortgage application was completed.
-A further £62,000 for the balance  of investment  deposit dated 16 October 2009.
Mr A and Ms S were provided  with an illustration document  that shows the projected  
investment returns  from the Harlequin property development.  But it was not branded as 
Harlequin, but rather headed 1994 Caribbean  Investment Analysis.  
There were  emails to Mr A and Ms S along with other investors  from an adviser at 1994 giving 
updates about the progress of the Harlequin development.   In October  2011 one such email 
confirmed theyd  been  on a Harlequin training day.  This is a considerable time after Mr A and 
Ms S had invested, but suggests they were acting in the capacity of more  than just an 
introducer.
Based upon the evidence available  to me, Im persuaded that Mr A and Ms S were  advised  by 1994 
to borrow additional funds on their mortgage on top of the £35,000 they had originally  intended. Given  
the timeline of events  and available  documentation, I consider it a reasonable  conclusion to say they 
did so on the basis that 1994 recommended they invest in Harlequin.  
On the second point, Im satisfied that 1994 was acting as TenetLimes agent.  It has accepted 
responsibility for the regulated mortgage advice, and as Ive explained, Im persuaded  that on balance 
the advisers were considerably involved in the investment process  also.
When considering whether  the activities carried  out by 1994 were  part of the business  authorised by 
TenetLime, Ive referred to s.39 FSMA as set out above.  It states that a principal  is required to accept 
responsibility for business  of a prescribed description.  
Prescribed business, as set out in the interpretation  section of FSMA, means prescribed in regulations  
made by the Treasury.  The regulation is the RAO.  So it refers to certain regulated activities at a high 
level, rather than in relation  to individual transactions.
In this complaint, the prescribed business that TenetLime accepted responsibility for is detailed within 
the appointed representative agreement between it and 1994.  That agreement is dated 11 
September 2007 and sets out that 1994 can carry out Business as set out within  Schedule 1 of the 
agreement.
The prescribed business TenetLime authorised 1994  to carry out as set out in the appointed 
representative agreement is:
Arranging and advising on regulated mortgage  contracts.
Ref: DRN06882089Making arrangements with a view to transactions in regulated mortgage contracts.
Arranging, advising  and dealing as an agent on deals in non-investment  insurance contracts.
Making arrangements with a view to transactions in non-investment contracts.
Assisting in the administration and performance on non-investment insurance  contracts.
part of
s.39(b) FSMA refers to an appointed  representative carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing.
A principal  is responsible for the acts and omissions  of an appointed representative when they are 
acting within their actual authority.  But it can sometimes also be responsible where it accepts  
responsibility for only part of the business and the appointed representative  acts beyond  its actual 
authority.
In the judicial review case of TenetConnect Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018], the 
judge explained that where a consumer  had been advised to sell a regulated investment in order to 
fund an unregulated investment, this would form a single piece of regulated advice.
I believe the judges conclusions in that case are similarly applicable  in this case, and the acts Mr A 
and Ms S complain about are a single  piece of advice.  Without  the regulated mortgage advice, there 
would have been no investment into Harlequin.   So I think its right to consider the transactions as 
being inextricably linked and forming a single  piece of advice.
In the recent case of Anderson v Sense  Network [2018]  EWHC 2834, Mr Justice Jacobs said:
138. Most  recently, in TenetConnect,  Ouseley  J applied the decisions in both Martin and 
Ovrachenko, in circumstances where it was common  ground that liability under s.39 was not 
to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency: see paragraph [61].  The 
basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice on unregulated 
investments was sufficiently  closely linked to the advice  on regulated investments, which the 
AR was authorised to give.  The case therefore again supports the proposition  that in 
ascertaining the scope  of s.39, and the question of the business for which the principal has 
accepted responsibility, it is relevant to consider  the terms of the agreement  between  the 
principal and AR.  It is implicit in the decision that if the advice on the unregulated investments 
had not been sufficiently closely  linked  to advice which the AR was authorised to give,  then 
there would  have been  no liability under s.39.
139.  I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take 
a broad approach  when  seeking to identify  the business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility.  The  fact that there may not be actual  authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of a breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Overcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant business  for which 
responsibility is taken.  Equally, the approach  must not be so broad  that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
The test in the Anderson  v Sense Network  judgement is that the principal is responsible when  the act 
or omission is sufficiently closely  linked  to the activities for which the actual authority was given.
Ref: DRN068820810So just because TenetLime didnt give 1994  actual  authority to provide Mr A and Ms S with 
investment advice, it doesnt mean that it isnt responsible for it.  It all depends  upon whether the 
mortgage advice and investment advice are sufficiently closely linked.
As Ive explained above, based upon the evidence provided to me, Im persuaded that 1994 gave 
advice to Mr A and Ms S to invest in Harlequin.  And in order to do so, recommended  they borrow 
extra funds against their home  by way of an interest-only mortgage.
Mr A and Ms S initially wanted, and were quoted for a £35,000 mortgage, but following 1994s  
recommendation, they borrowed an extra £62,000 which was invested in Harlequin. Whilst I 
appreciate that TenetLime maintain the extra funds were required  for home improvements and a 
motorhome, Ive already  explained why I dont think that was actually the case, and that Harlequin  
was recommended and was always  the intended  use for the proceeds.
Because TenetLime has accepted responsibility  for part of the advice complained  about, I consider it 
is responsible for the advice  as a whole   both mortgage and investment.   The two pieces of advice 
are sufficiently closely linked and Mr A and Ms S wouldnt  have made  the investment without the 
mortgage advice and additional borrowing recommended by 1994.
Given my conclusions  on who carried  out the advice  and that TenetLime is responsible, I have 
jurisdiction to review  the complaint as a whole.   So I have also considered  the merits  of Mr A and Ms 
S complaint  about the investment as well as the mortgage.
investment suitability
Having reviewed  everything and considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint Ive reached the conclusion that it was not a suitable recommendation  for Mr A and Ms S to 
borrow against their home to invest in Harlequin.
Harlequin was a high-risk  esoteric  investment that would have only been suitable  for a small  number 
of investors.  The £63,000  paid by Mr A and Ms S was only a 30% deposit for the off-plan 
development and the balance  of £147,000 would  be due for payment at staged completion  dates. So 
Mr A and Ms S would have  needed pay the remaining balance or secure further borrowing  if the 
development had successfully  been completed.
At the time of the advice, Mr A and Ms S were  in a comfortable financial position, having substantial  
equity in their home,  a holiday home in Cyprus and savings.  However,  the Harlequin  investment 
posed a greater  risk than they had capacity  to take.  Ms S received a modest pension income,  and 
they were not in a position  to make up any losses.
Mr A and Ms S had believed  the investment  would effectively fund itself.  As  Harlequin  would pay to 
maintain the mortgage interest, and it was marketed  on the basis that once  completed,  the value  
would be sufficient  to secure borrowing against the overseas property, or sell at a profit.  
The position  is that the UK sales arm of Harlequin  has gone into liquidation and the investment 
properties were never built.  Mr A and Mrs S say their investment is now worthless with little or no 
prospect of realising any value in the future. 
Ive not seen  anything  to suggest  Mr A and Ms S had any experience  in, or had wanted to take such a 
high level of risk with the investment.  But even if they had, I dont think  its a suitable  
recommendation to borrow against a residential  home to take such a risk.  Had the risks been  fully 
explained, I dont think Mr A and Ms S would have made the investment into Harlequin.
Mr A and Ms S had originally  gone to 1994  to secure a mortgage for £35,000 to raise  funds to help 
their daughter buy a home.   That is the basis of the original mortgage application and offer.  As  I think 
they should  never have been advised to invest in Harlequin, the fair and reasonable way of putting  
Ref: DRN068820811things right would be to ask TenetLime to put Mr A and Ms S in the position  they would have been in 
were in not for the unsuitable advice.
Whilst I cant be certain what else Mr A or Ms S would  have done, I consider it likely they wouldnt 
have borrowed any money to invest, or made any investment into Harlequin at all. They werent 
looking to make  an investment, but had approached  1994 to borrow funds to help their daughter buy a 
home. So I think its likely they would have just proceeded with the £35,000  mortgage initially applied  
for.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is that I intend to uphold  the complaint against 
TenetLime Ltd.  To put things right it should pay to Mr A and Ms S:
F)The £1,000 deposit paid to secure the Harlequin investment.
G)The £62,000 additional mortgage borrowing taken to invest in Harlequin.
H)Any interest payments  Mr A and Ms S have paid to service the £62,000 mortgage,  but less 
any contributions  they have received from Harlequin towards those costs.
I)8% simple interest per annum on the amounts  calculated at C), from the date each payment 
was made, to the date of settlement.
J)£500  for the trouble  and upset of having an interest-only mortgage without the repayment 
vehicle that they hoped and expected  to use, and so meaning there was a realistic prospect 
of having to sell their home.
Ref: DRN068820812EXTRACT FROM FIRST PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
In 2009, Mr A and Ms S approached a representative of TenetLime to discuss taking out a mortgage 
on their property. At that time, the property was mortgage free. They  wanted to borrow £35,000  for 
home improvements and a vehicle purchase, and initial discussions took place on that basis.
However, Mr A and Ms S ended up borrowing £97,000 on interest only terms. They  say that the extra 
£62,000 was used as a deposit to fund an investment in a resort  in the Caribbean. Through a scheme 
run by a company called Harlequin, Mr A and Ms S put down a deposit on a property on the resort. At 
that stage,  neither the property nor even  the resort  had been built. The intention was that the rest of 
the purchase price  would  be paid on completion  by raising further  finance. Harlequin agreed to pay 
the mortgage payments until the property  was completed. 
Harlequin made the payments for some time but these stopped. The property and resort  have never 
in fact been  completed and the UK sales arm of Harlequin has gone into liquidation. Mr A and Ms S 
say that their investment  is now worthless. They complain about the mortgage advice they were 
given. They say that the mortgage  adviser  suggested and sold the investment to them; and they 
would never  have taken it otherwise. They say that he persuaded them to increase the mortgage 
balance to fund it. They say that, as a result, they have been left with an unsuitable mortgage they 
have no means of paying  back at the end of the term.
TenetLime says that its adviser didnt sell the investment he merely introduced them to it. It says that 
it isnt responsible for the investment anyway, as its an unregulated investment and it has only 
accepted responsibility for the advisers mortgage activities.  
TenetLime also says that the mortgage was suitable. It achieved Mr A and Ms Ss objectives and the 
repayment strategy was an ISA, not the Harlequin  investment. It noted that Mr A and Ms S returned to 
the adviser for a re-mortgage in 2011. It says that, as far as its adviser was concerned the mortgage 
was only for the purpose of the home improvements and the vehicle, costs which Mr A and Ms S had 
told the adviser had increased. As far as the adviser was concerned, the mortgage was never 
intended to fund the investment.
One of our adjudicators  recommended the complaint be upheld, and so TenetLime asked that an 
ombudsman review it.
An ombudsman made a provisional decision saying that the complaint should be upheld. A copy of 
that decision is attached below. In summary he said;
TenetLimes adviser was significantly more involved in the sale than as a mere introducer. 
Mr A and Ms Ss intention in taking out a mortgage was to borrow  £35,000. The increase of 
£62,000 was to invest in the Harlequin property, and that decision was made at the 
instigation of TenetLimes adviser.
Nothing in the paperwork at the time referred to the investment  as the repayment strategy  for 
the mortgage. But there was no other repayment strategy either. TenetLime says that Mr A 
and Ms S had an ISA worth £100,000   this was referred to in the later 2011 mortgage fact 
find. But there is no reference to it in the 2009 documents.  
He was not persuaded  that there was a £100,000 ISA. 
In arranging an interest  only mortgage, TenetLimes  adviser should  have checked the 
repayment strategy, and whether it was plausible,  realistic and affordable. This wasnt done,  
and no repayment strategy for the additional £62,000 of the 2009 mortgage was recorded at 
the time. 
The strategy TenetLime  says was in place in fact wasnt. Nor was it considered by its adviser 
at the time.  There was no evidence of any assessment of a repayment strategy, or advice 
given about it, for the additional £62,000.
Ref: DRN068820813So he said he was minded to uphold  the complaint and suggested how redress should be calculated.  
The extract from the provisional decision attached below sets out the full reasoning  along with the 
redress proposed.
Mr A and Ms S accepted the provisional decision.
TenetLime did not and made a number of comments. In particular it said;
Its adviser did not give investment advice. That was given by a third party.
There was an alternative repayment  vehicle,  the ISA. 
Our adjudicator then made some further investigation including obtaining documents  from the original 
mortgage lender including the mortgage application. Mr A and Ms S also provided a copy of the 
mortgage offer from 2009.
TenetLime also obtained  a statement from the agent Mr A and Mrs S say they were introduced to. In 
this statement the agent says that he was an unregulated  agent  of Harlequin  and that he arranged the 
purchase of the property  for them, and not the adviser from TenetLime.
Ive now reconsidered all the evidence.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im not satisfied that the conclusions the ombudsman reached  earlier are still valid. There is material 
new evidence which is significant. In particular;
The mortgage application from 2009 says that the mortgage  funds were  for home 
improvements. When the loan was increased by £62,000  it says that this was to buy a motor 
home and a new conservatory and the costs  of each is set out. 
The application also suggests that the intended mortgage repayment vehicle  was the sale of 
Mr A and Ms Ss main residence. And not the Harlequin property.
The 2009  mortgage offer also says that the intended  repayment  vehicle was the sale of their 
main residence.
The agents statement says that he was responsible for the sale and not TenetLimes adviser.
When commenting  on these  documents Mr A and Ms S have said that;
As to the repayment plan, we were advised that this was not deemed necessary as Harlequin 
Properties would be paying  the mortgage until the overseas property was complete and earning by 
means of rental  charges. Harlequin would  then deduct the mortgage  payments and we would get the 
surplus.
 If a repayment plan was needed for mortgage purposes then we did tell them that we would sell our 
house or the property we had in Cyprus  which  is valued at around £200.000.00.  As to the earlier  offer 
we did have savings  which would  have  covered  this if needed, (this was not an ISA!).
So it seems  there  was discussion about the repayment  vehicle at the time and this included 
discussion of the possibility of the sale of their main residence as a potential method of repayment. 
This is the repayment vehicle recorded  on the mortgage documents. And it transpires  that Mr A and 
Mrs S had other assets, including an existing foreign  property, which could  be sold if necessary.
Given this evidence  it seems  that the TenetLimes adviser did give consideration to the repayment 
vehicle and that there were plausible and realistic methods of repayment  even if the Harlequin  
investment did not succeed.
Ref: DRN068820814The TenetLime adviser wasnt required to make  in-depth checks on the investment.  MCOB 4.7.12G 
states it does not require a firm to provide advice on investments  when considering its obligations 
under MCOB 4.7.11E.  It does go on to state  that whether  such advice should  be given will depend 
upon the individual needs  and circumstances of the customer and that MCOB 4 does  not restrict the 
ability of an adviser to refer the customer  to another source of investment advice.   But in this case  it 
seems there had been advice about  the purchase from a third party  agent.
Although the adviser  was not responsible for the investment advice, as part of the mortgage advice  he 
should have assessed whether there was a realistic strategy  for paying off the mortgage. Im not 
satisfied that the Harlequin investment was the repayment  vehicle. I think  it was the main  residence 
as the documents suggest and this was realistic in my view.
But even if the Harlequin investment had been the primary repayment vehicle, it seems that there 
were other plausible  repayment methods available  should  that have  been considered  too risky for 
Mr A and Mrs S. So I dont think I can conclude  that any failure to advise on the risks associated with 
using the Harlequin investment as a repayment vehicle caused Mr A and Ms S to take the mortgage. 
I think  its likely that they wouldve gone ahead anyway  given the advice theyd received from the third 
party agent, and given the other means they had available to repay  the mortgage if necessary.  On 
balance I believe they would reasonably just have  confirmed the availability to use alternative assets 
to enable the mortgage to be secured.
Mr A and Ms S believed in the likely success of the Harlequin investment they wished to make.  The  
Harlequin agent has confirmed that he provided the investment advice and the mortgage  adviser 
merely introduced them  to him.  
So for these reasons, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  Mr A and Ms S complaint against TenetLime Ltd.
Ref: DRN0688208