K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained about her home  insurer Legal  & General Insurance Limited  (L&G).  It 
repaired her home following subsidence damage but she was unhappy with the quality of the 
work and that some repairs  remain outstanding.
background
Ms Bs home suffered  subsidence in around 2007.  L&G repaired it but the cracks came  back 
within a few years. L&G agreed to review  the situation.
In July 2015 L&G wrote to Ms B confirming  it wouldnt  charge the £1,000  excess as it 
accepted this damage had continued from the previous incident. So it wasnt a new claim. It 
said it would  review other damage  that it hadnt,  at that time, accepted needed  repair.
In August 2017 L&G issued a final letter to Ms B in response to a complaint shed made.  The 
letter dealt with Ms Bs concerns over the arrangements  for Ms B to live elsewhere. In 
October 2017 L&G issued a further final response to Ms B. This set out the history of the 
current claim and looked  at delays  which it accepted  had occurred.
In November  2017 repairs were  scheduled to complete and Ms B was preparing to move  
home. She noted  a number of issues, such as many cracks had just been  painted  over,  
some cracks hadnt been repaired,  the house  hadnt  been cleaned properly, the toilet  was 
blocked and a radiator needed replacing.
L&G arranged a site visit to look at the outstanding issues.  It said the house had been  
satisfactorily cleaned  but various conversations with Ms B took place about the cleaning.
Ms B got the property  cleaned herself and asked  L&G to reimburse the cost to her. L&G sent 
a plumber to replace the radiator and unblock  the toilet but when he attended  he couldnt get 
into the house. The radiator hasnt been replaced  since. L&G said the cracks it hadnt  
repaired werent subsidence related. L&G issued  a further final letter in respect of Ms Bs 
complaint on 13 December 2017.  In April 2018 Ms B complained to this service.
L&G told our investigator that it didnt think we could  look at anything that had occurred  
before August 2017 as Ms B hadnt  come to us within six months of the date of that letter.  It 
said its October letter had just summarised  everything that had gone on. Our investigator 
pointed out to L&G that the October letter  didnt  specify that it was only taking activity  after 
the August  letter into account.
Just prior to our investigator issuing  his view on the complaint Ms B reported that L&G had 
said it wouldnt renew her policy unless she confirmed work  had been done to fully repair  the 
property. Our investigator asked L&G about this and it apologised;  it said this had been  an 
error caused by the renewal team thinking  that the claim had been settled in cash.  The 
policy renewal was processed.
Our investigator then considered the merits of Ms Bs complaint. He accepted  L&Gs position 
on the cleaning.  He said if Ms B wanted the radiator repaired shed have to allow  access  for 
that. He noted that Ms B had told us some cracks had re-appeared and he said L&G should 
send an adjuster to look at them. He was also aware of other repair  issues identified by Ms B 
which he also said the adjuster should look at. L&G agreed.
Ref: DRN03611012Our investigator also said he hadnt seen  any evidence  of inappropriate conduct by L&Gs 
representatives. Ms B was unhappy.  She felt wed taken L&Gs side.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  I felt I needed further  information  before 
I could make any findings on the complaint.  Having  received further information I issued a 
provisional decision as I felt L&G had seriously failed Ms B in its handling of her claim. I said 
it needed to do a number of things;  including arranging to stabilise the property and pay 
£2,750 compensation. My findings  were quite detailed and Ive copied them  below in their 
entirety before moving on to look at what  has happened since  they were issued and what  my 
final decision  is on the complaint.
my provisional findings
period of consideration
Ms B came back to L&G following noting further  damage at her home in 2011.  L&G refers to
2010 in its October  2017 letter but its file clearly begins with notification  of further damage on
20 October 2011, not 2010.
L&G says we cant look at anything prior to August 2017. I disagree.
The letter L&G issued  in August 2017 didnt deal with the claim as a whole or consider any 
delays that had occurred. That letter dealt with issues  surrounding arrangements for Ms B 
moving out of her home. So I cant look at anything  that happened  in that respect  but the 
August 2017 letter  doesnt prevent me from looking at the rest of the claim.
There is also the letter from July 2015 though. L&G refers to this as a final response letter 
but I havent seen it. In any event this, from the file notes  and the October 2017 letter, seems 
to deal only with Ms Bs complaint that she shouldnt have to pay a further excess  and that 
there is other damage  that needs assessing.  So even if this letter was a final response,  it 
only precludes me from considering Ms Bs complaint as addressed at that point by L&G  
the excess and the damage.
L&Gs October 2017 final response  letter  did deal with the history  of the claim and set out a 
timeline for it. The letter concluded there had been  some delays and offered £150 
compensation.
Then, when  Ms B reported her further  dissatisfaction  and poor repairs  to it, L&G issued a 
further final response letter in December 2017.
Ms B complained to us (in April 2018) within six months of the date of both of these letters. 
Im satisfied therefore, that I can look at everything that has happened, with the exception of 
any issues in respect  of Ms B moving  out of her home, the excess and additional work (as 
complained about in 2015), and that is what Im going to do. Ive looked  at the renewal  issue 
too as it ties in with earlier claim  activity.
Ref: DRN03611013my detailed summary of activity from October  2011  February 2018
In 2011 Ms B called L&G as shed noted  that cracks  it had previously repaired had come 
back. L&G appointed a specialist. The specialist wrote to the local authority as it seems it 
was believed that a tree on its land was causing the problem. There  is little detail from this 
time but it seems that the specialist did little else between October 2011 and August 2012 
than write  to the local authority.
In August 2012 L&G appointed a loss adjuster to take over from the specialist.  The loss 
adjuster visited the property in November 2012. L&G hasnt provided any notes  or reports  
from this visit other than a site plan. The adjuster continued chasing the local authority for a 
response regarding  the tree and it was March 2013 before Ms B was called with an update.
A report  on the property  in June 2013 showed that reducing the size of the tree would 
restore stability. L&G though noted that the tree had been reduced before during the original 
claim and yet the subsidence had re-occurred  once the tree had re-grown. It said it would 
therefore push  the authority to agree to fell the tree.
A delay to matters occurred in June 2013 when the local authority suddenly  denied liability  
for the tree. Ms B helped clear this issue up a few months later and in October 2013 the 
authority reduced  the tree by 30% but said it wouldnt take it down. The adjuster felt this 
would stabilise the property and into 2014 the claim moved towards  repairs.
A scope for repairs was completed in February 2014  and there is little detail on file showing 
any activity between then and May 2014.  At this point the adjuster  began asking Ms B to 
sign a mandate  to agree work  set out on the schedule that had been shared with her. Ms B 
was asked to pay a policy excess as well.
The adjuster  continued chasing  Ms B for agreement and in October 2014 Ms B complained 
to L&G. She said she didnt think she should  have to pay the excess as this wasnt  a new 
claim. She said she was unhappy that some  work  wasnt  included  in the scope of work even 
though these were  cracks that had been  fixed before (and had since  failed). L&G contacted 
the adjuster. According to the adjusters file the concerns were  noted but little activity then 
occurred until April 2015 when the adjuster began writing to Ms B asking if there  was a 
reason why she wouldnt agree the repairs. The adjuster chased Ms B on this in May.
In June 2015  the adjuster  told L&G:
we are not aware  as to what  was repaired under the previous claim. What  we have done is 
assessed the current damage  and what relates  to subsidence movement and thus covered 
under the policy.
But in July the adjuster  accepted the current damage was a continuation of the previous 
claim and agreed to reassess what damage  needed  repairing. It was agreed that no excess  
would be payable. It was at this point, and in this respect, that L&G issued its first final 
response to Ms B.
There was some difficulty in getting  Ms B to agree to an appointment to produce a revised 
repair scope. This occurred in January 2016. It then took over a month for the adjuster to 
receive the revised scope from its contractor and, when this was sent to L&G, the additional  
work was queried.  This took a short while to resolve but the updated  scope was sent to Ms B 
for approval on 2 March  2016.
Ref: DRN03611014There was then a delay due to Ms Bs health.  On 25 May 2016 Ms B agreed for work to go 
ahead and L&G said it needed  to take further  advice regarding  some health and safety 
aspects of the work. This wasnt  resolved  until September and it was November 2016 when 
contractors visited Ms Bs home again.  They noted that the cracks had got worse. They felt 
the loss adjuster should attend  before  any work began. Ms B wasnt well enough to deal with 
further visits at that time though and it was February 2017 before the damage was reviewed. 
The adjuster  felt there hadnt been  any deterioration.
The claim then stalled  for around six weeks until, at the end of March 2017  the contractors 
asked for the house to be emptied for work to be done. And Ms B asked  that L&G provide 
her somewhere  to stay during the works on account  of her health. Ms B was asked to 
provide a doctors note. The contractors then delayed but Ms B didnt provide her doctors 
note to the loss adjuster  until June  2017. At this time the contractors still hadnt confirmed 
how long works were likely to take or when they could start. This was confirmed on 19 June 
2017 and bookings were made for the week commencing 7 August.
Ms B didnt move out on 7 August  and work  didnt start.  After  L&G sent its final response in
August 2017 which dealt  with this issue an offer to settle the claim in cash was made  to
Ms B. On 14 September  2017 Ms B declined this offer and said she wanted L&G to do the 
work. L&G gave the go ahead to contractors the same day. On 27 September 2017, after the 
loss adjuster had chased the contractors  several times, a start date for the week  
commencing 23 October was arranged. The adjuster made  all the necessary arrangements  
for Ms B to move out as well and the work  went ahead as planned.
Ms B was due to move  back  home  on 21 November 2017. But in early November the 
contractors told the loss adjuster that works would complete by 10 November. The loss 
adjuster accepted this and began making arrangements for Ms B to return home on 
14 November. Ms B went to the property on 6 November and has said she was disappointed 
with what she found. She said there was a whole  list of issues  (summarised in my 
background above) and, after chasing  it several times, the loss adjuster spoke to the 
contractor on 10 November for an update.
The contractor told the loss adjuster that the radiator was being  fixed  that day. He said the 
cracks in the cupboard werent  subsidence  related and they werent on the schedule for 
repair. He said a deep clean of the property  wasnt  needed as it was clean with no dust 
anywhere.
The loss adjuster then spoke to Ms B. Ms B said there was dust everywhere and the loss 
adjuster said they were  trying to arrange  a deep clean but they werent sure this could be 
done before  the date Ms B was due to move  home.  Ms B said she could try and find a 
cleaner and the loss adjuster confirmed that if she did it would reimburse her costs.  Ms Bs 
return home was postponed  and, when Ms B said she couldnt find a cleaner, the loss 
adjuster told the contractor to arrange  for the house to be deep cleaned on 13 and 14 
November 2017.
On 13 November 2017 the contractors, still disputing that the house  needed  a deep clean, 
said they were going to do that that afternoon. The loss adjuster also arranged to re-visit the 
property on 15 November  to assess the unrepaired cracks and consider what  was needed 
regarding the radiator.
Ref: DRN03611015When the loss adjuster  attended on 15 November he thought the house  was immaculately 
clean. It was agreed that the radiator would be repaired  and the toilet unblocked  over the 
weekend in time for Ms Bs belongings to be returned home on Monday  20 November. Ms B 
didnt agree the house was clean.
On 17 November the loss adjuster emailed Ms B. They  said that following the meeting, 
which included video  footage and photographs  of the property  being  taken, it seemed the 
property was clean.  They didnt accept that any further cleaning was required. But said if
Ms B had evidence  otherwise, such as photos, these would be considered. The loss adjuster 
confirmed this again in a second email to Ms B later that day.
On 18 November Ms B had a company clean the house. She later sent the invoice for this to
L&G. It said it wouldnt reimburse the cost as the work hadnt been  agreed.
Also on 18 November 2017 the contractor  went to Ms Bs home to replace the radiator and 
unblock the toilet. On 20 November they reported  to the loss adjuster that when they got 
there they had found the door was double locked  and they couldnt  get in using their key. 
Seemingly they didnt  call Ms B or try to rearrange  and it was only after the loss adjuster  
chased them  on 20 November  that they reported the failed visit. It was then 21 November  
the day Ms B was moving home   that the loss adjuster then contacted her to advise that the 
contractor had been unable to repair the radiator and toilet.
The loss adjuster received no response to that email  and tried to call Ms B a couple of times  
before passing  the complaint over to L&G. It reviewed everything  and issued  its final 
response on 13 December 2017.  Shortly after that, and before Ms B complained  to us, she 
noted that some of the cracks L&G had repaired had opened up again.
delays and claim handling
Ive gone into so much detail above in order to see where delays have occurred, to 
determine whether  these  were reasonable or not and if not if they were L&Gs fault.  I think 
this has been  a long and complicated claim and, as such, it was always going  to take a little 
while to conclude. Some things were out of L&Gs  control, such as the council suddenly 
stating it had no liability for the tree. There were also periods  where  Ms B was unwell 
I cant fairly  blame  L&G for delays  that occurred at those points.
But given the detail Ive set out above  I think L&G handled  this poorly and either  it or its 
agents didnt move things along as quickly as they should have done. And nor did they 
always keep Ms B up to date with what was happening. Notably:
L&Gs agent seemed  to do little prior to the claim being transferred to the loss adjuster in
August 2012.
There was a complete  lack of communication  with Ms B before  March 2013.
Between February and May 2014 the claim stood stagnant.
October 2014  to April 2015, little happened  even though L&G knew of Ms Bs concerns.
April 2015  to July 2015 the loss adjuster  chased Ms B about  agreeing  work  even  though 
they and L&G knew she had concerns  and had known  since October 2014.
January 2016 to March  2016  when revising the scope and getting it sent to Ms B for 
approval took too long.
May to November  2016 when health and safety  issues held things  up.
Ref: DRN03611016Mid-February 2017  until the end of March, it shouldnt have taken that long for repairs to 
progress.
14  27 September 2017, again it shouldnt  have taken this long to get things progressed.
November 2017, the loss adjuster  accepted repairs would complete early without 
checking and told Ms B shed have to move home  early, arrangements were made in this 
respect and then had to be rearranged again.
18 November 2017 no contact was made with Ms B to find out why access  couldnt be 
gained to the property  or to make alternative  arrangements.
20 and 21 November  2017 the contractor didnt update the loss adjuster and the loss 
adjuster didnt update Ms B until the day she moved  home  even though both knew  this 
meant she was moving home  with a blocked  toilet which  she unblocked  herself.
I dont doubt all of this has caused Ms B significant  distress and inconvenience. But I think  
there are other issues, that Ill address below, that will have caused upset as well. Ill keep 
these issues in mind and set out my overall compensation award for distress and 
inconvenience at the end.
Id add at this point  though, I havent seen any sign of L&G or its agents  dealing with or 
speaking to Ms B in an inappropriate manner.  That being said, I wasnt,  of course,  present at 
any site meetings. I have  no way to know for sure what went  on during those visits. I cant  
reasonably hold L&G accountable for something  I cant  be satisfied most likely occurred. So 
whilst I know  Ms B believes shes had unfair treatment in this respect at times, I havent 
taken this into account in my compensation award.
radiator
This has never been fixed. L&G, in my view, had ample time to sort this before Ms B moved  
home but didnt. The one attempt on 18 November was not sufficient.  L&G needs to arrange 
to do this now.
Ms B reports that her house has been  colder  without  the radiator which  caused  her to buy 
electric heaters instead. She said her utility bills increased as a result.  If Ms B can provide 
her bills, along with bills from the periods before when she had full use of the radiator, Ill 
send these to L&G for it to consider. Ill then make a final award setting out what I think  L&G 
needs to pay, if anything,  to reimburse  Ms B for any loss that has occurred, likely including  
interest.
If Ms B bought the heaters  and can provide receipts  Ill likely  make L&G reimburse that cost 
too. Ill likely require it pays interest  on the purchase cost from the date of purchase until 
settlement is made.
I accept Ms B was caused some  frustration when this wasnt fixed. Ive taken this into 
account in my compensation award. Im not minded  to think its caused  any real distress or 
inconvenience in the time since as Ms B has mitigated  the situation with electric heaters.
cracks in wardrobes
The contractor says these  werent  scoped  for. Ms B says they date from the initial claim and 
were repaired  then.  The loss adjuster  has confirmed  that it doesnt know  what  was included 
and repaired  in the initial claim.  Ive no reason to doubt Ms Bs word on this and really  L&G 
should have done a better job at investigating the previous claim, or keeping  records about 
Ref: DRN03611017it, when  the reoccurrence  was first notified  to it. It didnt. I think  it fairly now has to fix the 
cracks in the wardrobes.
L&G might say Ms B had the chance to tell it of the cracks earlier  at the time it reviewed the 
damage and extent of necessary  repairs  in 2015  but I dont  think that would be fair. Ms B 
isnt a builder so beyond noting  that rooms where cracks were  present were missing from 
the scope, I dont think she reasonably had cause to question  the planned  work  further.
reoccurrence of damage
Our investigator said L&G should look into this. I think it will have to assess the damage to 
see what needs doing to fix it but I think it also has to accept  that more needs doing  to the 
property to achieve long-term stability. Even in 2013 the loss adjuster felt that cropping the 
tree wouldnt  be sufficient in the long-term  it had been cropped  before and about five years 
later, once the tree had re-grown,  damage  had reoccurred. But the council wouldnt take the 
tree down and L&G moved ahead with repairs once the tree had been cropped.
That was 2013 and, five years later, damage reoccurred again. So L&G has now had two 
chances at providing  long-lasting repairs but has failed to do so. In my view then, L&G now 
needs to do something  to ensure Ms Bs home is stable, so any repairs  it carries  out will last, 
and that isnt dependant  on a third-party  maintaining  a large,  constantly  growing tree. Im 
going to require L&G to do so.
I also accept it was upsetting for Ms B to see cracks  reappear for the second time. This 
could have been avoided if L&G had acted reasonably when the council wouldnt fell the tree 
in 2013. Ive taken this into account in my award below.
cleaning
Ms B has said she hasnt  any photos  to show  the house needed cleaning. Im not minded to 
take much  account  of what the contractor said but I note the loss adjuster confirmed the 
property was clean.  Ive also seen some photos  that show it was clean; theres  no sign in 
these pictures of any dust. I havent  seen the video  footage though,  this hasnt been 
provided.
Whilst the loss adjuster  did initially  tell Ms B that it would pay for her to clean the property 
that was before the contractors attended on 13 November and before the loss adjuster 
viewed the property on 15 November. Ms B was told on 17 November that her costs  for 
cleaning wouldnt be covered but Ms B went ahead on 18 November and got it cleaned 
anyway. I appreciate she felt she had to but Ive seen  nothing  that makes  me think  it was in 
a condition that was unreasonable for her to return to given  her health issue. I dont intend to 
make L&G reimburse Ms Bs costs in this respect.
renewal
If an insurer settles  a claim in cash that is the end of its involvement.  Getting the repairs  
done is up to the policyholder. But most insurers, when  it comes time for the policy to renew, 
will want to know work it has paid for has been  completed. To do that they might make  
renewal conditional  on receiving proof of repairs. On principle that isnt unfair.
Here though I think L&G acted unfairly  and unreasonably. It should have known, I think, that 
this hadnt been settled  by cash. But an error  meant that it acted as though  it had been. 
Ref: DRN03611018Given everything Ms B had been  through  I accept this was particularly upsetting,  as well as 
confusing for her. She also had to make enquiries to try and resolve it. This could all have  
been avoided  if L&G had handled its files properly. Ive taken this into account in my 
compensation award.
overall
I think L&G didnt handle  this claim as well as it should. Delays  and repair issues  have 
caused Ms B a lot of distress and inconvenience. Im minded to say it should  pay £2,750 
compensation.
following my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded and some  further  investigation occurred. Ive summarised everything 
below.  
delays and claims handling  L&G had its loss adjuster that handled  the claim from 
August 2012 respond on the points  Id made.  It accepted some  things Id said but had a 
different view on others. It felt thered been some isolated short  periods of delay that totalled  
around six and a half months  and accepted there  had been four months  during the early 
stages of the claim where it hadnt communicated with Ms B. Ms B gave some more details 
too but only in a few respects, she was generally happy with my findings.
radiator  L&G said it would pay £30 for one heater  even if Ms B doesnt have a receipt, and 
£30 for increased  utility  usage. It said it would repair the radiator.  Ms B confirmed she 
doesnt have a receipt but paid £25 for a heater. She said she hasnt asked her utility  
company for bills  it stands to reason that her usage would have gone up. She said shes 
happy for the radiator to be repaired.
reoccurrence of damage  it was agreed that L&G would carry out an assessment prior to 
my final decision being made. It was also agreed  that during that assessment consideration 
would be given to the outstanding concerns Ms B had told us she had with some  repairs.  
The crack assessment  resulted in L&G accepting  further movement had likely occurred at 
Ms Bs home and a period of monitoring has now started to establish the likely cause for the 
movement and to help determine  what will ultimately  be needed to resolve that. The 
assessor gave his view on the other repair concerns raised  and Ms B has responded in 
respect of those findings.
cracks in the wardrobe  these were considered by the assessor.  He found the cracks were 
minimal and said, in his view, they didnt require  repair. Ms B said she did tell L&G,  or rather 
its agents, repeatedly  about the cracks and she had been asked  to remove  items  from the 
wardrobes prior to repairs being  carried out. 
cleaning  L&G maintained it was cleaned.  Ms B said it was still dusty,  although she has no 
proof showing this. She said shed  like reference  to it having been  immaculately  clean to be 
taken out of my decision because this wasnt the case as shown by CNs report  dated 
15 November which refers to minimal dust.
compensation  L&G said it accepted there were failings but, given its loss adjusters 
response to my delay  and claim handling section, felt my award was too high. Ms B didnt 
object to my suggestion.
Ref: DRN03611019my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays and claim handling
Ive considered the detail L&G has provided from its loss adjuster. Essentially it has gone 
through the details I set out provisionally  in respect  of where I felt failings had occurred and 
given its take on them. Its set out a total period for when it accepts it caused delays. Ive 
considered what  its said and overall  Im not surprised that it has a slightly  different 
perspective on some issues to me. But nothing its said makes me think  what  Ive said, 
having considered all of the available information provided by both parties and having looked 
at this from my removed impartial position, was wrong, unfair or unreasonable. 
Im mindful that it also believes that the total period of delay it accepts occurred is likely 
somewhat less than Ive identified. But in this respect Id note that I didnt set any definite 
period for the total amount of delay likely caused.  What Ive set out is that over a period of 
years L&G, often via its agents,  consistently  caused delays and failures  in claim handling. 
That type of on-going, but intermittently occurring, delay and failure  creates a cumulative 
impact in terms of distress and inconvenience,  meaning its impact is far more  significant 
than any one single period of delay and failure. Im satisfied by what  I said provisionally, 
those findings,  along with my comments here,  are now the findings  of this my final decision.
radiator
I accept that L&Gs agent did visit Ms Bs home on 18 November. Ive seen evidence to that 
effect. But Im not persuaded that Ms B deliberately sought to refuse  entry  it doesnt  make 
sense that shed do that. And nor am I persuaded that L&Gs  contractor or loss adjuster at 
that time handled  things appropriately  following that visit. Whilst all that has a bearing in 
terms of upset caused, I think the involvement of the new loss adjuster effectively moves 
things forwards in terms of getting  the radiator fixed. Im satisfied  that both parties will work 
together to get this done. 
I see that L&G has agreed to pay for a replacement heater,  regardless of any receipt. I see 
that Ms B paid £25 for a heater. Im going to require L&G to pay her that sum. Because 
theres no receipt though I wont require it to add interest.
Regarding utility usage Im going  to say the offer made by L&G is fair and reasonable. It 
acknowledges, as Ms B has said, that there would be some  extra  usage  and Ms B cant say 
what that might equate  to. And Im also mindful  that whilst using an electric heater might 
increase electricity charges, the lack of a radiator  might  well decrease the call on the gas 
boiler. In the circumstances,  I think a payment of £30 is fair and reasonable.
re-occurrence of damage
Whilst provisionally I said L&G needed to move to stabilise Ms Bs home it made  a good 
argument in response  which persuaded me that it should reasonably  be allowed to 
investigate and then monitor  the property first. Ms B agreed to this. Essentially L&G accepts 
now that the house is moving, quite likely but not necessarily as a result of the local 
authoritys oak tree, and that it must  do something  to resolve that. But what  is needed  to 
resolve that must  be considered  and monitoring will help determine  the most  appropriate  
Ref: DRN036110110course of repair. And if that shows the oak tree is the cause then the monitoring evidence 
will be crucial  in persuading the authority  to remove the tree altogether  which  will be the 
least invasive outcome for Ms B in terms of repairing her home.  The monitoring is now under 
way and L&G is well aware  that the matter will need  handling carefully from now to minimise 
any further disruption for Ms B. And Ms B, for her part, is committed to getting her home 
finally, fully and properly  repaired. So I trust that things will run smoothly and that Ms B wont  
have cause to make any further  complaint.  
Regarding the outstanding repair issues considered by the assessor; Ive looked  at these 
below. But because  it was an original stand-alone point in my provisional decision, the 
wardrobe crack issue has its own section  immediately  below  this one. With the exception  of 
the hall radiator,  in respect of any repair Ive said L&G should carry out, this can be deferred  
until the monitoring and any stabilisation works  have  been completed.
Kitchen cupboard and plaster   it was accepted that plaster was coming from behind  the 
cupboard, which would need  to be removed to assess and resolve the plaster problem. Ms B 
made no objection  to this. I think the assessment seems reasonable, Im going to require 
L&G to carry out this investigation and repair.
Speakers  it was agreed that these hadnt been  reconnected but shouldve been.  It was 
also noted they were  very dusty and would need cleaning before any attempt was made to 
reconnect them. Ms B made no comment. Again I think  the assessment seems  reasonable, 
Im going  to require  L&G to carry  out the cleaning and re-connection of the speakers. But Im 
also going to say that if the speakers cant be re-connected or are but dont work, that L&G 
should repair or replace them. In the circumstances, and despite  the passage  of time 
meaning liability for damage cant be easily and clearly traced to L&G, I think  its fair to 
require it to reinstate  them. Ms B had speakers  that worked before L&Gs work began so that 
is what she should be left with.
Yellow paint on silver trim  the assessor  accepted this had resulted from L&Gs repairs,  he 
said it could simply be cleaned. Ms B made no comment, which is understandable. I think 
the assessment  seems  reasonable, Im going to require L&G to carry out this repair.  L&G 
may think this is something  Ms B could  do herself,  and it might  be right. But I think it would 
be quite easy for trim like this to be damaged during  cleaning  and if it is damaged it will 
need replacing. Ms B shouldnt be left in the position of doing that work herself  or having to 
face the consequences of replacement if she inadvertently causes damage. The paint  
shouldnt have bene splashed in the first place or, if that was unavoidable, it should  have 
been cleaned  straightaway by L&Gs contractor.  It needs to put that right by cleaning  it now 
and, if it cant be cleaned  and/or is but damage  is caused, replace it.
Paint coverage  Ms B had said that L&G painted a room lined with blue paper in cream 
without removing the paper and the blue shows through in places. The assessor didnt 
accept there  was an issue with the coverage. Ms B said she disagreed.  In this case  Im 
satisfied with the experts opinion on the paint coverage. But the next point (decoration 
behind) has relevance here. Ms B also said though that, if the lining paper wasnt 
removed L&Gs contractor  cant have  properly repaired  cracks in this room. Ive commented  
on cracking below.
Decoration behind  fridge/freezer  The assessor  found that this item, along  with many 
radiators and a large  cupboard in the dining room, hadnt been  moved  when the property 
was redecorated.  Instead the contractor had merely painted around  them.  The assessor  said 
this was unacceptable. Ms B noted  the same had occurred with a free-standing wardrobe in 
Ref: DRN036110111her bedroom  and also that one of the radiators affected was in the room  lined with blue 
paper. Im satisfied by the assessors  findings. Im going to require L&G to carry out work to 
properly reinstate the decoration at Ms Bs home  in the areas affected by this issue, 
including the free-standing wardrobe and the radiator  in the blue room. It will be up to L&G 
and its agents  how that is fulfilled but I am going  to require it to give the whole blue lined 
room a coat of paint,  in addition to any coats necessary to cover the area behind  the 
radiator. Giving the whole  room a coat of paint, in the grand scheme of things and given it is 
doing some  painting in that room any way as well as in other  areas of the house, wont make 
much difference to L&G but it may make a huge  difference to Ms B. That feels like the right 
and fair thing for L&G to do. L&G said it didnt  really agree with me regarding painting  the 
blue room but said it would accept my findings  in this respect.
Decoration inside wardrobes  the assessor noted  that whilst the rooms have been 
decorated the inside of the wardrobes werent. He felt that was satisfactory, given the 
wardrobes have doors and so are separate  to the rest of the room. Ms B felt this was an 
unfair stance  to take because the wardrobes arent separate rooms. I can understand where 
the assessor is coming from  this service  sometimes takes  a similar approach  in certain  
circumstances where  items  that match are in areas  separated from each other  in some way 
(not necessarily separate  rooms). But Ms B has been through a lot during this claim and 
I can understand why this issue  has upset her so much.  And, given the other  areas of poor 
decorative works completed  by L&Gs contractor, I can understand why Ms B feels this 
decision is so unfair.  Further L&Gs accepted  it should paint behind large objects which are 
likely moved  far less than the wardrobe doors  are opened. In the circumstances, Im going to 
require L&G to redecorate  inside the wardrobes to match as closely  as possible the dcor of 
the rooms they are in. To be clear this will not have to be a perfect  match,  some minor 
mismatch can be seen  to be reasonable given the separated  areas and the fact the dcor  
within the wardrobes doesnt form part of the overall finish of the bedroom (it isnt part of the 
vista when the bedroom is in normal use).  
External paving  and brickwork  Ms B had reported  an area of sunken  paving that she said 
was repaired previously  by L&G. She also reported  poorly repaired brickwork.  The assessor 
didnt think the sunken paving  was linked to the subsidence movement. He accepted that 
brickwork repair was poor and needed  re-doing.  I think L&Gs consideration in respect of the 
brickwork is fair, and Ill require it to undertake remedial work in this respect. Upon review of 
further comments by both parties Im not going make L&G resolve the sunken  paving. L&Gs  
expert says this damage isnt related to subsidence  and Ms B has confirmed this area wasnt 
subject to a previous repair. Ms B clarified that as subsidence repairs had been  carried out in 
nearby areas, she thought this area was likely suffering from the same  cause. The expert 
opinion is that it isnt and, Ive no reason to doubt that opinion. Im not going to require L&G 
to repair  the area of sunken paving.
Woodwork in the blue-lined room  Ms B reports this has paint  splashes  on it but it wasnt  
drawn to the assessors attention at the time of the visit. Thats  unfortunate, and whilst 
I understand its difficult for Ms B to keep on top of everything, it isnt possible to continually 
keep adding in items  of concern. But, given  this topic is so similar to the silver trim issue,  
meaning I can reasonably  accept  without any need for further assessment that its another 
aspect of poor work carried  out by L&Gs contractor,  and affects a room  that Ive already 
said L&G should  re-decorate, I think its reasonable to require it to remedy  this issue. 
Cracks in the blue-lined room and at the top of the stairs  Ms B said she can see these but 
the assessor couldnt at the time of his visit. There is a photo which  shows  the crack in the 
blue room, near the end of the curtain  pole. The assessor hasnt  mentioned these cracks 
specifically. And, given the current monitoring  that is underway, Im not going  to say anything  
Ref: DRN036110112definitive about them now. The monitoring will take a little while to complete, after that L&G 
will need  to sort out what is needed  to stabilise the property  and only once stabilisation is 
achieved can a repair schedule for the internal crack  damage  be completed. Thats  because  
until the house is stable the cracking will continue and progress. So it may well be that the 
cracks Ms B is concerned  about will form part of that repair schedule. That, of course, will all 
take place outside of the arena of this complaint and decision. So that everyone  is clear 
when that time arrives Id suggest that a crack  repair plan for the property is drawn up at that 
stage, to accompany any schedule,  so  that Ms B and L&Gs contractors can all be very 
clear about  what is to be repaired.  And if Ms B thinks  other cracks should  be included  which  
arent, she can deal with that then, rather than only finding out later,  when other repairs have 
been completed, what cracks havent  been resolved. Thats an unusual  suggestion for me to 
make but one which I think is warranted  in the circumstances  here. It serves the best 
interests of both parties and will hopefully  allow  the claim to progress to its long-delayed 
completion without  the need for another complaint  to be made.   
cracks in the wardrobes 
In many cases Id likely accept the expert view that has been  expressed here  that the 
cracks are minor and dont need  repair. However, there is a long history to this claim, and 
Ms Bs been caused a lot of upset; at least part of which relates to these cracks. In the 
circumstances I think it would be unfair for me to rely on the impartial (in terms of how the 
claim has been handled previously) view of a third-party in this respect  whilst  ignoring the 
context surrounding  the issue. Given everything  that has occurred here,  and what  Ive said 
provisionally, I think its reasonable  to require L&G to repair  these cracks.
cleaning
I understand Ms B is concerned as to the state  her home was left in, and given that the 
report from November 2016  refers to minimal  dust and that there  is other detail within  
L&Gs file in which it accepts that the standard of cleaning was satisfactory , I can see why 
reference to the house  being left immaculately clean upset her. I apologise for that. But the 
statement I included provisionally,  and which Ive left within  my above record,  was made by 
the loss adjuster the day after he visited the property. I think  now, given everything Ive seen 
that was likely an overstatement but it doesnt  change my view that it would be unfair and 
unreasonable for me to make L&G reimburse the cost Ms B incurred for cleaning her home.  
As she herself has said there is no evidence that the property  was left in a generally dusty 
state. And Im not persuaded the reference to minimal dust, even for someone with Ms Bs 
health condition,  means L&G had failed  to satisfactorily clean her home.
compensation
Whilst Ive considered L&Gs request for less compensation to be awarded I wasnt 
persuaded by what it said that my provisional finding  in this respect was unfair or 
unreasonable. I remain of the view that over a sustained period L&G failed Ms B in its 
handling of her claim. Im satisfied that she was caused a lot of distress  and inconvenience 
as a result  and that an award of the magnitude provisionally suggested is fair and 
reasonable. Therefore, Im going to require L&G to pay Ms B £2,750  compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited  to:
Ref: DRN036110113Monitor the movement  at Ms Bs home and consider the results with a view to 
determining the most  appropriate way of stabilising the property against further 
subsidence movement.  And once the property is stable:
Investigate and repair the poorly fitted  kitchen cupboard and loose plaster.
Clean and re-connect the speakers and, if they cant be reconnected or can but they 
dont work, repair  or replace  them.
Clean the yellow paint  on the silver trim and, if this cant be cleaned or it can but 
damage to the trim occurs,  replace the trim.
Properly re-instate the decorative finish at Ms Bs home, in line with my comments 
above, including behind the wardrobe and painting the blue room.
Fix the cracks and decorate inside the fitted wardrobes,  in line with my comments 
above regarding match.
Remedy the poorly repaired brickwork.
Clean the yellow paint  off the woodwork in the blue room, if it cant be cleaned  or 
doing so damages  the remaining finish, re-decorate the woodwork.
Prior to work starting, and in addition to any schedule of work produced,  complete a 
crack repair plan for the property which clearly shows which  cracks  will be resolved 
during the repairs  and share  this with Ms B, listen to any concerns she has and work 
with her to ensure reasonable agreement on the planned repairs  is reached.
Fix the hall radiator, if it cant be fixed,  replace  it.
Pay Ms B £25 as reimbursement of her cost incurred in buying a heater.
Pay Ms B £30 as compensation for likely increased utility  costs.
Pay Ms B £2,750  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified  and from/to  the dates stated. If Legal & General 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Ms B, 
it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0361101