K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of I Ltd. He is a director. He says that Bank of Scotland  plc lost 
certain payments  in the middle  of a switchover to another bank account. This resulted in 
direct debits not being paid, cash flow problems and, in particular, problems with a 
refinancing loan. Mr R says that because of the problems  caused, I Ltd was turned down for 
a loan and, instead, had to take a loan with a higher rate of interest. 
Mr R wants Bank of Scotland  plc to pay the extra interest that I Ltd will have to and does pay 
which is in the region  of around  £68,000. 
background
I Ltd had a business account with Bank of Scotland. In February  2018,  the account  was 
switched to another bank. I Ltds card payment/merchant  services  provider was told about  
this switch. But, they needed 10 days notice  before  the payments could  be sent to a 
different account.  Because of this, four payments were sent on 17, 18, 19 and 21 February 
2018 to the Bank of Scotland account. The first three payments were  returned but the fourth 
payment couldnt  be located by Bank of Scotland or the card payment/merchant services  
provider. This caused cash flow problems and resulted in direct  debits being returned 
unpaid. 
At this point, I Ltd were refinancing and looking for new loans. Mr R says that, because  of 
the unpaid direct debits,  I Ltd found  it difficult to get a loan at a favourable rate of interest. 
The brokers  dealing with the loan application  said that the reason for I Ltd being  turned down 
was the unpaid direct debits. 
On 2 July 2018,  Bank of Scotland wrote  a letter explaining that the only reason for the 
adverse credit history  was because of a lost payment during the business account switch. 
They said that it was a clearing error and should in no way affect I Ltd. 
Bank of Scotlands final response following a complaint from Mr R was as follows:
They couldnt say that the lost payment was a bank error as they had tried to locate  
it.
They agreed to pay I Ltd the lost payment plus 8% interest on it as a gesture of 
goodwill.
They paid £200 compensation  for the time that it had taken to communicate with 
Mr R. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this outcome. He said that I Ltd had been  turned down for a loan at 
5.5% and had to take one at 7.49% instead which also had charges if they repaid the loan 
early. 
He brought his complaint  to us. 
Our investigator found that he couldnt uphold the complaint.  He thought  that Bank of 
Scotland had acted  fairly and reasonably in offering what they had. 
He had looked at the agreements for the loan. He found that although the interest  had been  
offered of 5.5%, this was over the Bank of Englands base  rate. The loan offer with interest 
of 7.49% included the base rate. So, the repayments wouldve been similar. He found  that 
Ref: DRN03146832without evidence to show that I Ltd wouldve been offered a lower  rate of interest  had it not 
been for the unpaid direct  debits, he couldnt  say Bank of Scotland was responsible.  
He thought that Bank of Scotland had reasonably tried to minimise  the potential  impact of 
the unpaid direct debits by writing the letter on 2 July 2018. Mr R hadnt used this letter. 
Our investigator couldnt say that the higher interest  rate offered was solely due to the 
unpaid direct debits.  
Mr R wasnt happy with this decision so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr R wont be happy with my decision. I think  that Bank of Scotland  has behaved 
fairly and reasonably in this case. I will explain why. 
The first thing that I have  considered is whether the lost payment was Bank of Scotlands 
fault. Im afraid I cant say with any certainty  that Bank of Scotland  were to blame  as it could 
equally have  been the fault of the card payment/merchant services provider. I think Mr R 
believes that Bank of Scotland  has admitted that they are at fault here.  But I dont think that 
they have. They agreed to cover  the lost payment  plus interest  as a gesture of goodwill. 
Also, the £200 they paid was in recognition of the time that Mr R has spent on the matter. 
Bank of Scotland hasnt admitted fault. 
If, on balance, it was Bank of Scotlands  fault that the payment was lost, I considered  
whether this did lead to I Ltd having to take the loan that they did. It does seem clear to me 
that the lost payment resulted in direct  debits being unpaid. 
So, my next consideration was whether it is these returned direct debits that caused I Ltd to 
be turned  down for the loan at 5.5%  interest. Or that the loan that I Ltd did take was at a 
higher rate of interest because of the returned  direct debits.
The brokers  for I Ltd say that the loan offers were withdrawn once the missed direct  debits 
were confirmed.  Im mindful  of the fact that Bank of Scotland  did try to minimise the impact 
of the lost payment by writing a letter stating that the adverse credit history were  the result  of 
a clearing error. I dont  agree with I Ltds brokers.  I think that the letter  wouldve helped  
explain the situation to any prospective lender. At the very least, I think that it shouldve  been 
used in the loan applications  to explain the adverse credit history. I can understand why 
Mr R wouldve accepted  the advice of the brokers as they were acting in I Ltds  interests,  but 
I see no reason why the letter couldnt have been used. Bank of Scotland clearly thought 
that it wouldve  helped  and I agree. I think that it was wrong  not to even  try to use it. 
I have considered the information requested by the company who gave I Ltd the loan. They 
didnt ask to look at bank statements so it is likely that they didnt know about the returned 
direct debits. Also, as the investigator stated: 
Ref: DRN03146833If one of the loan companies which withdrew an offer had instead made an offer for the 
same loan but with a higher interest  rate once they received the information  about the failed 
direct debits then a direct comparison would be possible.
Unfortunately, we have  no direct  comparison here at all. No lender has specifically said that 
the returned direct payments caused  the loan applications to be turned down or to be offered 
at a higher rate of interest.
In conclusion, I cant find that the reason  for the higher rate of interest was the unpaid direct  
debits. And, even if it was, I think that the letter written by Bank of Scotland  shouldve been 
used. So, I dont think Bank of Scotland have  acted unreasonably or unfairly in this matter.  
my final decision
I think that Bank of Scotland  plc has acted fairly and reasonably in this matter. So, I dont 
need them  to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0314683