K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with the direct debit  payment for his mortgage. He wants more compensation, both for 
financial loss and trouble and upset,  and to ensure there is no adverse effect  on his credit  
records.
background
Mr S had a mortgage with Barclays and set up a direct debit to pay the monthly payments. 
The direct debit worked for years and then failed  in September 2018.  Barclays wrote  to Mr S 
to say that this was because there  wasnt enough  money in the account  to do so. After 
investigation, it was established that Barclays had tried to use an older direct debit mandate 
cancelled in 2015. Mr S had to pay manually for a period. Mr S said hed had to provide 
several direct debit mandates to try to resolve  the issue and this had happened before in 
2015.
Mr S complained to Barclays,  and said he wanted  it to ensure that the problem didnt repeat, 
and to pay lost interest  from his bank account  (Mr S had a bank account which required at 
least two direct debits to be taken to pay interest  on the money  within the account). Barclays 
said that Mr S wasnt willing to set up a new direct debit until the matter was resolved,  but 
agreed it was at fault. It also confirmed that Mr S credit records hadnt  been affected by the 
direct debit issue and paid £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S, 
including his time resolving the issue. Barclays said that it would need evidence of financial 
loss to compensate  for this. It also said that Mr S needed to get his bank to delete all the 
other Barclays direct debit mandates from his account.
The direct debit failed  again due to system  issues between Barclays  and Mr S bank.  Mr S 
had to again take action  to try to resolve  matters  with Barclays  and the direct  debit  mandate. 
Barclays agreed that it hadnt  acted professionally and paid another £100  compensation. 
The direct debit failed  again so Mr S complained to us. Barclays said part of the problem 
was caused by Mr S bank, and that Mr S was now failing to make  any payment (though  he 
had prepaid so not in arrears). It pointed out that it had suggested  Mr S might  want to use a 
standing order to make payment, given the issues with direct  debits.  Mr S provided us with 
evidence of the lost interest  due to Barclays not taking the direct debit and both parties  said 
that the new direct debit  worked from April 2019.
The investigators view was that Mr S bank  had repeatedly told Barclays  that there wasnt 
enough money in the account to pay the direct debit  (though there was). He didnt think  
Barclays was at fault for relying on this information, and that there  wasnt any evidence  that 
the whole  situation was Barclays fault.  In essence, the investigation showed that there  was 
an on-going issue  between Barclays and Mr S bank  and the investigator said that this 
service couldnt tell businesses to change  their internal processes. He said that more  
couldve been done by Barclays to deal with the other bank  to help Mr S, but £400 
compensation was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The investigator also said 
Mr S lost interest should  be paid by Barclays as it didnt in his view take enough action to 
ensure that the direct  debit  worked  from November 2018 up to April 2019.
Ref: DRN09356232Barclays said that if Mr S had suffered a financial loss, it remained willing to pay once 
evidence was provided. Mr S disagreed with the investigators view. He said Barclays had 
accepted fault for the direct debit issues and the compensation  for trouble and upset wasnt  
sufficient. Mr S also thought he should  receive  the lost interest for the whole period between 
September 2018 and April 2019, and he wanted  Barclays to check  his credit  records  were  
unaffected. Mr S said that we should  make Barclays take more  care in the future. Barclays 
confirmed that it didnt submit any negative entries  about Mr S and his mortgage due to the 
failed direct debits. The investigator said if Mr S wanted to check his records, anything  found 
could be reviewed, but his view didnt  change.  He noted that this service couldnt  deal with 
the future.  Mr S objected  to checking  his own credit  records.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
From the evidence available to me, I conclude that while  Im not dealing with a complaint 
against Mr S bank, theres  an ongoing situation between  Barclays and his bank which 
frankly needs resolving.  Mr S is not at fault and is stuck  in the middle.  Barclays  is well aware 
of the problem, and the potential serious  consequences of not paying a mortgage on time 
(though Mr S credit records are unaffected and he isnt in arrears). But this service cant  
require businesses to change their systems or deal with things that havent yet happened. 
This means  the guarantee as to the future  isnt one I can require  Barclays to give Mr S; in 
fact, I anticipate that this problem is going to keep happening until Barclays and the other 
bank work  together to find a long-term  solution.  Mr S may well find paying  by standing order 
an easier option.
When the direct debit failed in September 2018,  Barclays says it was due to it using a 
reference number  which matched an old expired direct debit mandate.  The evidence  
suggests that this is correct. But Barclays was aware of the reason underlying this, yet used 
its automated system  to tell Mr S he was at fault and to cancel  the direct debit. It knew  that 
when Mr S bank gave the reason  for the failure of the direct debit that it mightnt be correct  
due to the system  issue. Im of a different  view to the investigator as I think Barclays  is at 
fault here, and note that it even admitted as much to Mr S and paid compensation.
And I also think when the November  direct debit failed, Barclays  was at fault as it took the 
same action, again knowing of the underlying reasons for the problem. I think that at this 
point, it was on notice  that it needed to take more bespoke action in respect of Mr S and to 
help him with the direct debit, including dealing direct with his bank.
I accept that Mr S has suffered financial loss due to the lost interest  (as his bank account 
wont pay interest if the Barclays direct debit  doesnt  work), and the relevant period is 
between September  2018  and the date when the direct debit  worked in April 2019. I note 
though that Barclays offered to pay for financial losses in its final response, but wanted 
evidence. Mr S didnt provide that evidence to Barclays, although he has now evidenced  
most of this loss. He will however need to ask his bank to provide details of the lost interest  
for the additional  period  until the direct debit started working.  
Theres no evidence before me that this issue has affected Mr S credit records. Barclays  
has confirmed a number  of times that it didnt make  any adverse reports.  Its fair and 
reasonable to expect  a consumer to check their own records  and provide a copy  of any 
concerning entries  if they wish to pursue such a complaint.
Ref: DRN09356233This leaves  the issue of compensation  for trouble and upset. We dont award  compensation 
on the basis of the status of the consumer; compensation  is awarded on the basis  of the 
trouble and upset  suffered by the consumer which is evidenced. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset in any event. Mr S has received £400 compensation for 
his trouble and upset.  I can see hes spent time trying to sort this matter out, and I have no 
doubt having your direct  debit cancelled a number of times (and being told incorrectly  youre 
at fault when youre not via the arrears letters) is upsetting. But the amount of compensation 
Mr S wants  is reserved  for our most  severe  cases,  and I dont think  the evidence  justifies  
more compensation.  Im of the view that £400  is fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to the provisional  decision. I have reviewed my provisional  decision 
and the evidence again, and see no reason  to change my view. I therefore confirm  my 
provisional decision as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint but Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Mr S the interest hes lost from his bank account  between September 2018  and the date that 
the direct  debit worked in April 2019  as offered. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
23 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0935623