K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains American Express Services Europe  Limited refused to refund credit card
payments he didnt make. He wants those payments refunded  and compensation for the
distress and inconvenience he suffered.
Background
Much of what follows repeats the same facts  I set out in my provisional  decision. But for the 
purposes of this final decision, its important to set them out again.
Mr S held a credit card account with American Express. In 2018 he raised a complaint about
its refusal to refund  multiple payments he says he didnt make  during 2017 and 2018
.
Mr Ss credit  card was linked  to an account he holds with a well-known online payment
service provider (PSP). In 2017 he says an account  he has with a well-known online
marketplace was hacked. Multiple  unauthorised  payments were then made via the PSP
which debited his American Express account.
Mr S raised a large  number of chargebacks during 2017 and 2018, which  he says were  the
result of the hack.  A number of payments were refunded by the PSP,  but some were  not.
Mr S also raised a large  number of chargebacks with American Express. He says he made it
aware of what had happened early  on and spoke to multiple  persons  over the phone.
American Express says Mr S didnt make  it aware  his card was compromised until
November 2018.  It said Mr S raised chargebacks  for several payments earlier  in 2018 using
its online chat. But those  payments werent put through because  they were  outside of the
credit card scheme  providers  timeframes.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Two different investigators issued views on his complaint. I
reviewed all the views Mr S received  but find it only necessary to detail the last one. The
investigator found:
-American Express needed to refund payments Mr S didnt consent to  this is what
the Payment Services  Regulations 2009 and 2017  require. Considering the large
number of chargebacks  Mr S raised  for the period May 2018 to November 2018, and
the number of refunds he received via the online PSP,  Mr S is unlikely to have
consented to payments  made between those  months.
-American Express should refund the payments, as well as any interest  or charges
which accrued in relation to them. If Mr S would  have  had a positive balance on his 
account but for those payments, this should be refunded, and 8% simple interest 
should be added to any overpayment to the date of settlement.
-American Express should have done  more to prevent  fraud on Mr S card given the
dramatic increase in chargebacks which occurred after May 2018. It should pay him
£300 for the distress he experienced which it could have prevented.
-Mr S accepted he should be refunded  payments between May 2018 to November
2018. But he thinks he should receive  more  in compensation considering how long
the matter went on and the impact it had on his wellbeing.
Ref: DRN06340072-American Express rejected the investigators  findings. It doubts Mr S was the victim 
of fraud, given the number of chargebacks he made.
Both Mr S and American  Express disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. Mr S 
accepted he should be refunded the repayments  the investigator recommended but thought  
he should receive more in compensation because of how long the matter  took to resolve  and 
the impact it had on his well-being. American Express  doubted Mr S was a genuine  victim of 
fraud due to the sheer number of chargebacks he raised  over a prolonged period of time.
The complaint was passed  to me to make a final decision. In May 2021 I issued a provisional 
decision and didnt  uphold  the complaint. I found:
-American Express ought to have  been concerned by the amount of unrecognised
payment chargeback claims  Mr S made. But Im not persuaded this means  he didnt
consent to those payments or that its evident they were the result of fraud.
-Mr S raised chargebacks on more than 20 separate occasions over 2017  and 2018,
which is a significant  number. American Express says he also raised  multiple
chargebacks before  this time.
-The large number  of unrecognised  chargebacks  Mr S raised over the years is
unusual, particularly as many werent  linked to the alleged hacking. Mr S also raised
multiple chargebacks  on payments which required his physical card and PIN. So, it
appears he says he was the victim of two different types of fraud at the same  time.
-Im not persuaded many of the payments made using  Mr S physical card were
unauthorised. For those  payments to be fraud,  someone would have needed to keep
taking and replacing Mr S card without his knowledge on multiple  occasions.  Mr S
hasnt given a persuasive explanation as to how this could have happened.  Neither is
it clear why he didnt cancel his card once it became clear what  was happening.
-Mr S ought to have  understood  he would  likely  be subject to further  fraudulent online
payments unless his card was cancelled  he knew his online marketplace  account
and American Express card were compromised. So, I find it questionable why he
continued to use the same  card.  He says he pursued the matter  and spoke to
managers at American  Express, but Im not persuaded  he did. American Express  has
records of calls in 2017 and 2018, and I dont see why it wouldnt  have  other records
of further calls if Mr S made  them.
-American Express provided notes of calls Mr S made to it over 2017 and 2018. They
show he rang its fraud team on several occasions;  once in February  2018  and on
several occasions in November  2018.  But the notes  dont  show he told American
Express his card was compromised  for the reason he has given any earlier  than
November 2018.  I would  expect there to be some reference to a fraud of this type if
he had. Instead  he only confirmed a payment as genuine in the February 2018 call.
-American Express tried to ask Mr S more about  the payments  he was disputing  in
November 2018.  But Mr S looks to have said he had told American  Express
everything before and wasnt  going to again.  But considering the financial  loss Mr S
alleges he suffered  at the time, I would have  thought  he would be willing to provide
as much information as he could to prevent further payments.
Ref: DRN06340073-Mr S continued to raise chargebacks with the online payment service provider in
2019 and 2020. So, he apparently encountered similar problems to when his
American Express account was open, which presumably werent  the result of his
online marketplace account being hacked.
Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision. He says:
-I failed to properly  investigate the fraud that occurred  on his account  with the online 
market place. Goods  were ordered to an address  he didnt recognise on multiple 
occasions.
-Its unjust for him to be asked to provide further evidence  now,  which due to the 
passage of time he cannot  provide,  such as call recordings with American Express.
-He was diagnosed with a medical  condition affecting his well-being  as a result  of how 
long the complaint has taken and the financial  impact it has had on him.
American Express did not provide a response, but as the deadline to provide its submissions 
has passed, I have  decided to proceed  to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to not uphold Mr S complaint for the same reasons I set out in my provisional  
decision, which I set out above and which form part of this decision.
On balance I remain unpersuaded by Mr Ss version  of events. I have considered  not only 
the payments  which were  made online,  which he says were the subject of his account being 
hacked, but also the numerous other payments  he raised as unrecognised to American 
Express. Those payments would have required the use of his physical card, so could not 
have been made as a result of an online account being compromised. I also note Mr S 
raised chargebacks  before his online account was hacked and he continued to raise  them  
since his American Express account  closed.
I have accounted  for how long the alleged fraud went on and Mr S continued to use of his 
card for genuine purchases during this period. I dont find his actions reasonable in the 
context of someone who says their card details were  being  used  to persistently commit fraud 
against them. Instead, I find someone in this position would cancel their card as soon as 
possible and American Express would have a record of this.
I doubt Mr S made the numerous calls he says he did to report the fraud to American 
Express. I agree much  time has passed since he raised a complaint, so his access  to call 
records may not be readily  available. But American  Express provided contemporaneous 
records of when Mr S did ring. I doubt  American  Express would have records of some calls 
Mr S made and not others. Those records do not indicate Mr S discussed  being hacked or 
that his card was otherwise compromised before November 2018. Instead, one record 
shows he confirmed a payment as genuine  which he previously  raised as unrecognised. 
Mr S says many of the goods purchased by the hacker were  sent to an address he doesnt 
recognise. But I have  balanced what hes said against the other information available  to me, 
Ref: DRN06340074and I dont find this shows all the payments he disputed were fraud. Its possible someone 
made purchases with his permission and prior knowledge.
I am sorry  to hear about the impact the pursuit of this complaint has had on Mr S. I 
acknowledge its possible his account  was hacked,  and all the payments he disputed 
resulted from this, including the numerous payments he disputed  made using  the physical 
card he had in his possession. But I must make findings based on what  I think is more likely  
than not to have  happened.  And this is what I have done. So, I am not upholding  his 
complaint or directing  American Express to pay him compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2021.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0634007