K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited rejected his claim  under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 for the refund of the cost of a holiday.
background
Mr R used his MBNA  credit card to pay just over £2,000 for an all inclusive holiday abroad 
with a tour operator. He was unhappy with the state of the hotel and availability of resort  
facilities and says it wasnt  five stars  as advertised. The tour operator failed to resolve the 
matter to Mr Rs satisfaction and he made a section 75 claim against  MBNA for a full refund. 
MBNA said in its final response that quality by its nature is subjective and it has no liability 
for this under  section 75. Mr R had also received some benefit from the contract  in the form 
of flights, accommodation, food and drinks. But its offered to pay him £330 to match the 
amount of vouchers offered by the tour operator  which Mr R had refused.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
It wouldnt be fair for MBNA to cover the full cost of the holiday as Mr R had spent a 
week abroad and had the benefit  of the package holiday which included flights, 
accommodation, food and drink.
The main problem  was the room not being  of the standard Mr R expected in a five 
star resort. But the tour operator  rated  the hotel as a 4T under its own star system. 
Hotel ratings can vary between countries and organisations will rate hotels differently.
The problems Mr R complains of wouldnt automatically mean  he should be given  a 
full refund. There werent any problems with the flights which  had a value of around 
£1,400. And the £2,000  or so Mr R paid wasnt all for his room. Although what 
happened on the holiday mayve been frustrating there hasnt been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  as facilities were  available as part of the 
package. 
MBNA has matched  the offer made  by the tour company  in vouchers and offered    
Mr R a refund of £330 for this. Thats  fair and he cant ask it to do any more. We also 
cannot consider  complaints about  the tour operator.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman review.
MBNA said the tour operator  had increased  its offer to either a £650  holiday voucher or £610 
in cash. And it withdrew its offer to Mr R. 
The investigator felt the tour operators  offer was fair and so MBNA doesnt  need to pay 
anything to Mr R under section 75.
Mr R says the tour operator actually withdrew its offer and ended up paying him £400. 
MBNA had offered to match any offer made  by the tour operator  which  at that time was 
£330. So, the minimum it should now pay him is £330.
Ref: DRN00767362my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law. Mr R makes his 
complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 which in certain circumstances 
gives a consumer an equal right to claim  against  the supplier of a service or the provider of 
credit, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Its clear that Mr Rs holiday  didnt meet some of his expectations particularly in the quality of 
his room and the availability of some  resort facilities due to overcrowding.  Even  so he had 
the benefit of most elements of his inclusive package holiday including  the long haul flights,  
accommodation, food,  drinks, transfers  and airport car parking.
Mr R raised a complaint  with the tour operator.  It initially offered him £330  in holiday 
vouchers as compensation. Mr R rejected this offer.
Its now apparent that the dispute between  the tour operator and Mr R was referred  to 
arbitration under the Arbitration Act 1996  and The ABTA Arbitration Scheme 2018.  An 
amended final award was made by the arbitrator  on 24 September  2018 awarding  Mr R a 
total of £400 compensation for whatd happened.
The arbitrators award is stated to be reasonable compensation  for the effects  on Mr R and 
his wife of any breach  of contract or duty by the tour operator. The arbitrator found the lack 
of maintenance  to the hotel room  was no more than an irritation or inconvenience. He 
awarded £100 for this loss of value  and enjoyment. In addition  he found  their enjoyment of 
the hotel site was tempered by overcrowding and he awarded £300 for this. This made a 
total award of £400.
Despite this Mr R now says MBNA should still refund £330  to him as itd previously offered to 
match the tour operators original voucher offer in that amount. And it should  do so even 
though MBNA subsequently withdrawn this refund  offer.
Although I understand Mr Rs frustration at what happened on his holiday Im afraid I cannot 
agree with him.
I note Mr R previously  declined  the tour operators  offer of £330  in holiday vouchers. MBNA 
originally offered to match that voucher offer by providing a similar cash refund.  That wasnt  
unreasonable at the time as it wouldve provided  Mr R with a cash amount equivalent to the 
holiday vouchers  hed been  offered but didnt accept. 
But I dont think this means MBNA is still bound to match its original  offer and pay Mr R £330 
or that it would be fair or reasonable  for me to require MBNA to make any refund to him on 
that basis under section  75. 
The arbitrators award of £400 payable by the tour operator is compensation for what  
happened to Mr R. And if I were to require MBNA to now make any refund  under section 75, 
I would effectively be giving Mr R a second  award of compensation  for the same  events and 
losses hes already  been compensated for by the arbitrator in his award. To do so would 
represent a double recovery by Mr R, at least in respect of any refund up to the figure of 
£400.
Ref: DRN00767363And for me to require  MBNA to now make  any refund to Mr R under section 75 I would have 
be satisfied that an award  of compensation to him should  be for more  than the £400 hes 
already been paid by the tour operator. But taking everything into account  Im not satisfied 
that would  be fair or reasonable. As MBNA  says Mr R had the benefit  of most elements of 
his inclusive package  holiday including the long haul flights,  accommodation, food, drinks, 
transfers and airport  car parking. Even if I accepted, which I dont, that Mr R is now entitled 
to a refund under  section  75 I dont  think this would be for more than the £400 already 
awarded in the Arbitration and paid by the tour operator. 
Consequently I think it was fair for MBNA to withdraw its previous refund offer because  Mr R 
had been compensated  by the tour operator. And I dont  think  I can fairly or reasonably now 
require MBNA to make a £330, or any, refund to him under section 75.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0076736