K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt  and wont  offer her more assistance  with 
her mortgage.
background
Ms M has a repayment mortgage which she holds jointly  with her now ex-husband, Mr S. 
This is an unusual case  as whilst the mortgage is still in joint names, the complaint  has been 
brought just by Ms M as the separation is acrimonious and she didnt want  Ms S to be 
involved. Due to the sensitivity of the situation and to protect Ms Ms privacy  when this 
decision is published Ill keep  matters fairly  vague  rather than mentioning too much  detail.
Ms M and Mr S separated about five years ago and Ms M remained in the property. Initially  
Mr S continued to pay the mortgage,  but about  three years ago that changed and it was left 
to Ms M to pay. At that time Ms M could  only afford  to pay less than £100 a month.  Over  the 
following years  arrears  built up on the mortgage  account to a level of around £25,000.
Lloyds has had a lot of contact over the years  with both Ms M and Mr S. As Mr S isnt party  
to this complaint  I cant mention in this decision anything  that relates to his contact, but I do 
need to take it into account when considering how Lloyds has handled  the mortgage overall.
In November 2015 Ms M met with Lloyds as the preferential rate product was coming to an 
end. At the time Mr S was still paying  the mortgage  and Ms M said she didnt know what  
would happen  in court with regards to the mortgage  and house. For that reason the adviser 
said it would  be best to allow the mortgage  to move to the standard  variable rate (SVR) 
rather than tying it into a new preferential  rate, which would mean  an early repayment  
charge (ERC) would  be incurred if the mortgage was ended within that rate period.
In 2018 Ms M complained  that Lloyds should have  done more to help her, both in 2015  and 
over the following years.  She said as she hadnt been helped  she was now trapped  as she 
had significant  arrears and a poor credit rating.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had done anything wrong and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Ms M didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position  Ms M is in. Its clear shes gone  through some 
very difficult times, and it cant  have  been  easy, mentally or emotionally, to revisit those 
times when  bringing  this complaint. As I said, Ive not gone into any detail about that in this 
decision to protect Ms Ms privacy once the decision is published. But Id seek to reassure 
her that Ive read and taken into account  everything shes said and provided.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms M has set out her account in detail. I trust she wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
condensed her complaint in the way that I have.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution 
service and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont  
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Ref: DRN02960052This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and resolved, or what  questions  
should be asked  or answered.
Its important to keep  in mind here that Ms M is only one of the two customers Lloyds has on 
this mortgage.  Lloyds has a responsibility  to ensure both customers  agree  to any changes, 
especially ones that could impact them to the extent any changes that Ms M may want - 
such as a new product,  a term extension or a change  to interest only - would. What Ms M is 
doing, in essence, is asking Lloyds  to commit Mr S to a mortgage contract that would be 
very different from the one he originally agreed,  but without his permission. Im sure if the 
roles were  reversed Ms M would be horrified that this could be done to her.
Although Ms M is living in the property and intends to continue  paying the mortgage, Mr S 
has equal rights under  the mortgage contract. And part of those rights includes that the 
contract cant be altered  without his agreement, even  if Ms M feels  it would benefit both of 
them. I can understand why Ms M may not want to contact Mr S, and I understand he may 
not cooperate  in any event. But unfortunately Lloyds simply cant  make the alterations that 
Ms M wants without Mr Ss agreement, and I cant order it to do so.
Ms M has told us we cant assume  Mr S wouldnt agree, and that no one has asked him. I 
understand her point  but equally we cant assume  he would agree. We cant  ask him as hes 
not a party  to the complaint. And if theres been  any discussion between him and Lloyds  on 
this, thats private,  just as Ms Ms conversations  with the bank are.
Ms M has said she should have been  offered a new preferential rate product in 
November 2015.  I considered this point carefully  as it seems things werent as acrimonious 
at that time as Ms S was still paying  the mortgage.  But that doesnt mean he would have 
agreed to being  tied into a new mortgage product with Ms M for another two years or more - 
or making  any other  changes to the mortgage account - at a time they were legally divorcing 
and trying to separate their finances.  In addition Ms M has said she didnt  know at the time 
what the court would decide in relation to the mortgage and the house,  so it seems entirely 
prudent for Lloyds to say it wouldnt  be in Ms M and Mr Ss interests at that time to tie 
themselves into a product with an ERC.
Finally, I understand  Ms M feels Lloyds should  have done more holistically, such as 
recommending she seek independent financial advice, enter into negotiations  to reduce her 
non-priority credit commitments and/or discuss the possibility of her renting  out her house 
and finding a cheaper house for rent to move into. Whilst I can see how all of those things 
may have  helped Ms M at that time none  of them were things Lloyds was obliged to do and 
so I cant hold it liable for not doing so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. 
Ref: DRN02960053Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0296005