K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly charged him 
for damage  to a car he returned when hed voluntarily terminated a Personal  Contract  Plan 
(PCP). He also says that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited acted unfairly by failing to 
return any of the deposit  he had provided due to its valuation of the car at the time he 
handed it back. 
background  
In April 2014 Mr C entered into a 4 year PCP with BMWFS for a new car. Mr C paid £6,000  
as a deposit for the car. At the end of the four years Mr C could either choose to make a final 
payment of £17,133.04 and keep  the car or pay nothing more and return it to BMWFS. 
However, in March 2017 Mr C contacted BMWFS and asked what  the settlement cost would 
be if he decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement. BMWFS said that if Mr C wanted  to 
keep the car he would need to make  a settlement of £22,697.41,  or alternatively as he had 
paid at least 50% of the total amount payable under the agreement he could  return  the car 
with nothing further to pay. Mr C chose to terminate the agreement  and return  the car. 
BMWFS wrote to Mr C outlining the arrangements for having the car inspected and 
collected. It said if any damage was found that was considered outside fair wear  and tear 
then Mr C would be liable  for the costs of that damage. 
The car was inspected and damage  was found  to the front alloys  and to one of the front 
doors. An invoice  for £208 was sent to Mr C. Mr C disputed that the damage was outside fair 
wear and tear and complained to BMWFS.  
BMWFS didnt uphold his complaint. It said the damage had been assessed using the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  guidelines (BVRLA) which  was the industry 
standard and set out what was and wasnt acceptable  as normal wear  and tear. BMWFS 
said it used these guidelines to ensure all its customers were  treated equally regardless of 
whether they remained as customers  or not. 
BMWFS said it made every effort to ensure its customers  were aware of the wear and tear 
guidelines before  the car was collected.  BMWFS said these  guidelines were  detailed in all 
the voluntary termination correspondence  and so gave  customers the opportunity  to view 
them and choose whether  to have any possible repairs completed before the car was 
inspected. 
BMWFS said the damage found  on the car had exceeded the guidelines on fair wear and 
tear and so the charges  had been fairly imposed on Mr C. 
Mr C was unhappy at BMWFS response and complained  to this service.  He also 
complained that he had lost his deposit on the car due to the valuation  placed on it by 
BMWFS, and that it had recorded a default on his credit record due to his not paying  the 
outstanding damage invoice. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.  She said that looking 
at the voluntary termination correspondence sent to Mr C she was satisfied that he had been  
notified that the car would  be assessed  against the BVRLA guidelines when it was 
inspected. A link to these  guidelines had also been  provided. 
Ref: DRN04059192Our adjudicator said that looking at the inspection report and the accompanying photos that 
had been prepared by an independent company she was satisfied that the damage  was 
outside what could  be considered fair wear and tear. She said BMWFS was entitled to 
charge Mr C for this damage as it was in line with the agreements  terms and conditions. 
Our adjudicator said that voluntary termination  was covered by the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, which allowed  a consumer to hand  back goods  to the finance provider during the term 
of the agreement. To hand goods  back the consumer  must pay 50% of the total amount 
payable under the agreement. But where, as in this case, the consumer had paid more  than 
the 50% they didnt get a refund of any amount over that 50%. When a PCP is voluntarily 
terminated then the finance company sells the car and keeps any proceeds from the sale.  
Our adjudicator said she was satisfied BMWFS wasnt required to refund Mr Cs deposit  
regardless of whether the car had sold for a profit or a loss.  
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said he accepted that the damage  to the door 
was beyond fair wear  and tear but not the two alloys. He also thought  that it was unfair that 
he didnt get his full deposit or part of it reimbursed due to the value placed on the car by 
BMWFS. 
As the parties didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me.  .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the PCP signed by Mr C. This was a four year agreement which allowed 
for termination at any time before the end of that term provided  at least  half of the total 
amount payable under the agreement  (including any arrears)  had been paid when the car 
was handed back. 
Mr C says that hed relied on the assurance from the salesperson  when he entered  into the 
PCP that the deposit hed paid should be available at the end of the agreement  to use as a 
deposit against another new car. He says that due to the valuation  used  by BMWFS  the car 
had depreciated  so much in value that his deposit was lost. But I think Mr C has 
misunderstood the situation.
Mr C voluntarily terminated the agreement around a year before it was due to end. This is 
covered by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This act sets out that 50% of the total amount 
payable must be paid for an agreement to be cancelled early  (voluntary terminated) and this 
50% is not just the total amount borrowed but also includes the interest and fees. However,  if 
you have paid more  than 50% at the time you voluntarily terminate you do not get a refund. 
And it was this situation that applied to Mr C as Ive seen that the settlement letter says that 
Mr C has to pay £0.00 which was because  hed passed the 50% point on repaying his 
credit agreement and was not required  to pay more to terminate the agreement early.  
So Mr C didnt lose his deposit because of the valuation BMWFS gave the car at the time he 
terminated the agreement. The deposit  wasnt reimbursed because under the PCP BMWFS 
wasnt under  any obligation to return his deposit  to him regardless of what amount it then 
sold the car on for.
Ref: DRN04059193Mr C has also complained  about  the charges for the damage  to the car. He says the damage 
to the alloys  was fair wear and tear. Ive seen  Mr C says he wasnt aware that BMWFS  
would apply the BVRLA guidelines when the car was inspected.
The agreement sets out that charges will be applied You must return  the vehicle  in a good 
repair and condition, allowing for fair wear and tear (which we will assess  in accordance with 
recognised industry  standards.  And while I accept  this term doesnt stipulate  that the 
BVRLA guidelines will be used these are recognised as setting the industry standard  and so 
I think this term allows  for their use.
I also think that using  the BVRLA guidelines is fair and reasonable. They  are widely  used to 
assess the condition  of a car when it is returned  at the end of an agreement and so allows 
for a consistent approach across  the car finance industry. I also think they clearly  set out 
what is and what is not considered fair wear and tear.
Ive also seen that the use of the BVRLA  guidelines was referenced in the voluntary 
termination letters sent to Mr C. So I think he was made aware of what  guidance would  be 
used when the car was inspected. I think Mr C had a reasonable opportunity to consider 
whether he wanted  to repair the car himself prior to it being inspected.
Mr C says he accepts the scratch on the door wasnt fair wear  and tear but disputes the 
damage to the alloys. The BVRLA says that any damage to the wheel spokes and hub of the 
alloy is not acceptable. The photos show a scratch  to one alloy over 50mm  and scratches  to 
the rim and spokes  of the second. Im satisfied  that there is sufficient evidence  to say that 
this damage is chargeable.
BMWFS says there isnt a default  registered on Mr Cs account or showing on his credit  file 
but it has reported late payments as the invoice has remained outstanding. While I 
appreciate Mr C is concerned about the impact  this may have I cant  say that BMWFS has 
acted unreasonably in taking this action. Its obliged to record  accurate information about the 
payments made on an account.
So for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint and I dont require 
BMWFS to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  16 November 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0405919