K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc unfairly increased the interest rate she was 
charged on her mortgage.
background
Mrs M had a mortgage with BoI, which was taken  out in 2000. From the start, the mortgage  
was on the banks standard variable rate (SVR).
Over the life of the mortgage,  the SVR has gone  up and down  there have been around 30 
changes overall  over the years. But the particular issue  in this complaint relates to two changes 
to the SVR the bank made  in 2012   when  it increased the SVR in two stages. In June 2012 it 
went up from 2.99% to 3.99%. And in September 2012, it went  up again  to 4.49%.
Mrs M doesnt  think this increase was fair. There were no changes to the Bank of England 
base rate at the time  indeed, the base rate was at an historically low level.  And the rate 
has not come back down again,  despite  other interest rates  remaining  low.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it. On her behalf her husband Mr M reiterated that the increase wasnt  
fair. And he said the bank had told him at the time that it was tracking European rates  but 
when they fell it still didnt reduce the SVR back down  again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the bank has acted unfairly by increasing the margin  in the way it has. Ill 
explain why.
Increasing the SVR was an unusual move by the bank. I can understand why it could be 
seen to be unfair. So weve very carefully  looked  at whether the bank has acted fairly and 
reasonably  including whether it had the power to do what it did. Weve also taken  into 
account the law, regulators  rules and the requirements of good industry practice.
did the bank have the power to increase the rate?
The power to change the interest rate is set out in the terms and conditions  of the mortgage 
Mrs M took out in 2000. Ill set out the terms in more detail below, but in essence the 
mortgage offer said the rate could be changed  provided it was for one of the reasons 
specified in the terms and conditions.
did the bank tell Mrs M that it might increase the rate?
Im satisfied that the bank took reasonable steps  to tell Mrs M that it could change  the rate. It 
said that it might do so on page four of the mortgage offer conditions attached to the 
mortgage offer that Mrs M accepted.
Ref: DRN07223892did the bank act in the way it said it would? And did it have a valid reason to increase the 
margin? 
I think it did. I say this because:
The mortgage offer said the interest  rate could be increased  under condition 4(5) of the 
terms and conditions,  but only for one of the reasons given in that clause.
One of the reasons in condition 4(5) was if the bank needed to secure income  which is 
adequate to ensure that it: (i) meets the requirements of any regulatory  body  (ii) has 
sufficient resources  to support its business  in the interest  of all its borrowers.  
The bank said it was increasing the SVR because it was required to hold more capital 
reserves, as part of measures to protect  the banking system from the type of scenarios seen 
during the banking crisis.  It said that its funding costs of mortgages had gone  up 
significantly in recent years.
The bank has given  us details of its financial position. Weve looked carefully at this 
information. Ive also taken account  of the old and new rules  the bank has to follow.  Im 
satisfied that the banks  funding costs had gone up relative to the interest rates on these 
mortgages. Im also satisfied that the capital requirements placed on the bank  had changed 
 meaning it needed to hold more capital. This was a change to the requirements  of its 
regulatory body.
After careful thought  and on balance, Im satisfied  there was a need for the bank to increase 
the margin to meet the requirements of any regulatory body and to ensure that it has 
sufficient resources to support  its business . So it was reasonable for it to increase the SVR, 
and there  was a valid reason to do so which was set out in the contract.
did the bank act fairly and reasonably?
The bank hasnt  applied  this increase to all of its customers. Some  of them  dont have the 
necessary term in their contracts. I can see how it could appear that some borrowers are 
paying more than others to make up the money the bank says it needs to raise  on its tracker  
mortgages. For the increase to be fair, it shouldnt go further than it needs to for affected  
customers.
Ive looked at whether the bank  needed  to increase the rate by the amount it did. It says it 
needed to increase the rate to make  the mortgages profitable  and it has given us evidence  
to show this. The new interest rate wasnt out of line with other rates  available.  I also know  
that the bank has put up interest rates for some other customers.
I also bear in mind that by this time Mrs M wasnt subject to an early  repayment charge, and 
there was nothing in the mortgage agreement that would have prevented  her taking a 
different interest  rate with BoI, or moving their mortgage to another  lender, if she wasnt 
happy with the change.
I dont think BoI told Mr and Mrs M that it was tracking European rates. I think this was a 
misunderstanding related to the explanation it gave about the regulatory requirement to hold 
more capital  which, although implemented in UK law by the UK regulator,  was a change  
made at European  level.
Ref: DRN07223893I also bear in mind that before  the change BoIs SVR was lower  than many  other  lenders 
SVR rates   and even after the change, it was comparable to the SVR rates charged by 
other lenders. The rate was higher than fixed and tracker rates BoI offered, and higher than 
fixed and tracker rates other lenders offered. But Ive seen no evidence  that Mrs M ever 
asked BoI to take her mortgage off the SVR onto a fixed  rate  or ever sought to move  her 
mortgage elsewhere.
Ive already found that the bank needed to make an increase. With that in mind,  I think  the 
banks actions were  reasonable. I havent  seen  anything  to suggest that the bank increased 
the rate to try to make  an unfair profit  and the evidence we have suggests it hasnt gone 
further than it needs  to. It made the change relying on the 2000 mortgage  offer and the terms 
and conditions issued  at the time. In all the circumstances, I dont  think it acted unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0722389