K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited cancelled his motor  insurance policy  
from the start (voided it) and charged him for another drivers costs following a collision.
background 
Mr A was involved  in an accident  with another  driver.  He made a claim, but Calpe then found 
that he wasnt the cars owner and registered  keeper. It thought  this was a deliberate 
misrepresentation. So it voided Mr As policy, retained his premiums and charged Mr A for its 
outlay for the other drivers costs.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Calpes decision to void the policy was fair and reasonable  as Mr A wasnt  the cars 
registered keeper  at the time of the collision. Mr A wasnt named on the V5 registration 
document, he couldnt produce any evidence that hed bought the car and he hadnt updated 
the DVLA that he was the cars  keeper. He thought  Calpe could void the policy  as it had 
been provided through incorrect information.  
The adjudicator thought  Calpe had fairly  decided  to hold Mr A liable for the collision. He 
thought Calpe had to deal with the other drivers claim and he saw evidence  of how this was 
calculated. So he thought it was fair for Calpe  to recover these  costs  from Mr A. 
But the adjudicator thought Mr As misrepresentation  was careless  rather  than deliberate.  
And so he thought Calpe  should  refund Mr As premiums and offset this against the charges 
it made for the other drivers costs. 
Calpe agreed  to do this. But Mr A thought  Calpes  question  about the cars registered keeper 
was unfair  and he couldnt see that an incorrect answer meant  it wouldnt then provide cover. 
He thought hed been treated  unfairly as hed lost his car and now had a debt to pay. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A feels frustrated by Calpes  decision. Hes been held liable for a 
collision when he thinks he wasnt at fault.  Calpe has voided his policy  because  it said he 
provided incorrect information when he took it out. And hes lost his car and now has to 
repay Calpe for its outlay  for the other  drivers costs. Ill look at each of these points in turn.
Mr A said the accident wasnt his fault. The adjudicator has already explained that it isnt our 
role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. 
Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate  how the insurer made  
the decision to settle the claim.  Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy?
Calpe is entitled  under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Mr A to take over, defend, 
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mr A has to follow its advice in connection  with the settlement 
of his claim, whether  he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably  
investigate a claim before making its decision. 
Ref: DRN00762572I can see that Calpe arranged for an investigator to interview Mr A. It considered  his 
drawings and photographs of the scene and his version of events. It couldnt  obtain CCTV 
footage and there were no independent  witnesses. Calpe  considered  the other drivers 
version of events and it compared this to the photographs and the damage caused. It 
concluded that the damage caused wasnt  consistent with Mr As account. So it thought a 
court would hold Mr A liable and it decided to settle  the other drivers claim.
So I think Calpe reasonably investigated  the claim and considered the evidence  available. I 
think it reasonably decided to hold Mr A liable and to settle  the other drivers claim as its 
entitled to do under the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say it has acted unfairly.  
Calpe said Mr A gave incorrect information about the cars owner and registered keeper 
when he took out the policy. Where a complaint arises from misrepresentation of information 
important to an insurer, we take into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it 
asked a clear question when the policy was taken out. We check  that the information given 
would affect whether a policy was offered. And we check  whether the informant has acted 
carelessly or deliberately in making  the misrepresentation.
Mr A took out his policy through  an online comparison site. Ive seen the question he was 
asked about the cars  registered  keeper and legal  owner and I think its clear.  Theres  an 
advice box that tells the consumer to check the log book if theres any doubt.  I can see that 
Mr A said he was the cars registered  keeper and legal owner on the online application and 
this was also on his policy schedule. 
Ive seen the cars V5 registration document and Mr A wasnt  the cars  registered keeper 
when he took out the policy. Mr A said hed bought the car from a relative but wasnt able to 
provide evidence to show  this. He said hed tried to update the V5 with the DVLA, but hadnt 
had time to finish this. There was six weeks between Mr A taking out the cover  and the 
accident during  which  time he could have updated the V5. So I think  Mr A was careless  
rather than deliberate in making this misrepresentation.  
Calpe said it would only provide cover for the cars  registered keeper and legal owner  as this 
would be the person  who had an insurable  interest in it. It said Mr A had provided incorrect  
information about this. I can see that the underwriters instructed the policy to be voided  due 
to this. And I can see that the policys terms and conditions entitle Calpe to void the policy if 
incorrect information is provided. 
So I think a clear question  was asked, but Mr A carelessly answered it incorrectly.  I think 
Calpe wouldnt have  offered cover  if the question had been  answered correctly. So, under 
the relevant legislation, I think  Calpe was then entitled to void the policy  and refund the 
premiums, as its now agreed to do. 
Calpe had to deal with the other  drivers claims for repairs,  personal injuries and costs. It 
incurred these costs  because it had a duty under the relevant legislation as it was recorded 
as the insurer  at the time. The policy was voided,  so Mr A wasnt indemnified by Calpe. So I 
think Calpe  was entitled to recover its outlay from Mr A. 
Calpe included its investigation costs in its charges against Mr A. Our approach is that we 
dont think its fair for insurers  to try to recover their own investigation costs from consumers 
when a policy has been voided. And so I asked Calpe to waive the £297  cost of this item 
from its charges. Calpe agreed to do this.
Ref: DRN00762573Mr A was also unhappy that Calpe wanted  to charge  him £1,000 for storage of his car. He 
said he couldnt pay this and so allowed Calpe to salvage his car. He thought this was unfair. 
But I cant see that Mr As raised this with Calpe directly, so I cant comment on this point. 
Our adjudicator has already suggested that Mr A should complain to Calpe about this first 
and if hes unhappy  with its response, he can then bring his complaint to us.
Mr A also said that premium payments were still being taken  from his bank account. Calpe 
said that it doesnt take premiums directly from policyholders. So I think Mr A should  check  
with his bank which business is taking the direct debits. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to refund Mr As policy premiums and offset  this against the costs its charging him 
for its outlay, less the costs of its investigations,  as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0076257