K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in joint names in 2003. At the same  time they bought  a 
PPI policy  in Mr Ds sole name. Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D 12 months free cover  at the 
start of the policy. It would have covered Mr D only for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
Mr and Mrs D say that the insurance was added without their knowledge. They also say they 
were given no option and it was part of the package. And theyve told us that they had life 
insurance which covered  both of them and a lump  sum pay out from Mrs Ds employer when 
she medically retired which could  have helped with their mortgage repayments  if the need  
had arisen.
Nationwide looked  at this complaint and said it didnt think the PPI had been  mis-sold but 
that it would  arrange for a refund of the difference in additional premiums  Mr and Mrs D paid 
for the surplus  additional  cover of £50 which Mr and Mrs D couldnt benefit from. It calculated  
the sum and paid Mr and Mrs D £270.29  as a gesture  of goodwill in March  2015.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with 
this view and asked  that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs D say that the PPI was added without their knowledge and they also say they 
werent given an option  - it was part of the package. These two accounts  dont quite  make  
sense together.  But Nationwide  should  have given Mr and Mrs D a choice about buying the 
cover. So the first thing Ive looked at is whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs D an option to 
buy the insurance and whether they knew about it. To help me decide Ive thought  about  
what theyve told me, the evidence that is available and Ive also taken into account what  we 
know about these  types of sales at the time. Nationwide has been  able to provide a copy of 
the mortgage application form and the PPI application form.
The mortgage application form has a heading  which says Mortgage Payment Protection  
Insurance. The box to show  Mr and Mrs D wanted details of how to protect their policy  by 
taking cover for accident, sickness and unemployment was ticked and this part of the form 
has been signed. Ive also seen a separately  completed PPI application form. Mr Ds details 
have been filled in and the type of cover  and the amount of cover required  has been 
selected. Mr D has signed and dated the application.
Ref: DRN06429152The Mortgage offer also makes  reference  to the PPI and states that the first 12 months was 
free. Theres  nothing in the paperwork which indicates it would have been necessary  to take 
out the cover in order to get the mortgage. As Mr and Mrs D were taking on a new financial 
commitment, I think they likely would have  read the form and I think  they likely received  
renewal statements and insurance schedules and it would have shown on their mortgage 
statements - so if they didnt know they had the policy they could have questioned it with 
Nationwide. I havent seen they did so. I can also see they made choices about other types 
of insurance.
Overall, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D chose  the cover  knowing they could  refuse it 
even if its understandable  if they have since forgotten  that now after so long.
Theres nothing to make me think a tailored  recommendation was made about the PPI so I 
dont think Nationwide  recommended  this policy to Mr and Mrs D. That meant it didnt have 
to take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for them.  But it still needed to give 
Mr and Mrs D clear enough  information  so that they could make  an informed choice about 
whether or not they wanted it.
Its possible that not all the information  was as clear  as it could have been. But I now need to 
think whether having clearer  or better  information  would have changed their decision about  
buying the policy.
I can see Mr D (the person who was covered) was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt seem 
he would  have been affected by any of the limitations or exclusions on the policy which  
might have made it more  difficult to make a successful claim; for example - a pre-existing 
medical condition  or an unusual  employment  situation. Although  Mrs D says she had retired 
and had a medical  condition  she wasnt covered by the PPI so this doesnt change my 
decision.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  need  the PPI. They say they had life insurance and Mrs D 
had received a lump  sum pay out from her employer which could have helped with 
repayments if necessary.  But this PPI would have paid out in addition  to any lump sum they 
had and it didnt  cover the same things as their life insurance. As their mortgage was 
secured over their home the consequences  of being unable  to meet  the repayments were  
serious. And if Mr D had been unable to work their income would have substantially reduced. 
It meant any lump sum they had could  have been  used for other important living expenses.  
So I think theyd have  found the cover  useful if things went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable for them.
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs D would have been put off buying the PPI even  if theyd had 
better or clearer information  and I dont think they lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide  
did wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Ref: DRN06429153Nicola Woolf 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0642915