K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
store card in 2000. Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her 
the PPI.
Mrs S took out the store card in a shop in 1997, and was later sold PPI over the phone  but 
FICL has taken responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs S says that she was lead to believe that taking  PPI would assist with her application for 
her store car  but I think that FICL gave her a choice in taking out PPI, and that she chose  
to do so.
Mrs S took out her store  card in 1997  FICL has provided a copy  of her application, and I 
can see that PPI wasnt  selected at this time.  It was added  to her account  during  a phone 
call a few years later in 2000. 
Theres no call recording available, but this isnt unusual  for a sale made  in 2000, and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. But FICL has provided a call script  
that was in use at the time which shows that its representative would be prompted  to point 
out that the PPI was optional, and gain proper consent for it to be added  to an account. 
While I cant be certain  how closely this script was followed, I havent seen anything  to 
suggest FICL did anything  differently when it sold PPI to Mrs S. And as she already had her 
store card for some  time,  I think she wouldve known that she didnt have to have PPI to get 
the card, and chose to take it out. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said, including what  shes  said about  having savings 
she couldve  used to make her repayments,  and that she couldve used her draw down 
mortgage to access  funds.
Ref: DRN08753522But the PPI couldve  protected her savings for other expenses  she had, and prevented the 
need for her to borrow money against  her home. So this doesnt change my decision, and for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0875352