K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd (Bastion) declined a claim he attempted to 
make under his appliance insurance policy for damage to his washing  machine.
background
In January 2019 Mr A contacted Bastion to make a claim  for his washing machine that was 
leaking at the time.  Several days later Bastion requested photographic evidence of the issue  
From Mr A.
Mr A provided the requested photographs  two weeks later,  and at this stage the washing 
machine had stopped working.  
Two days after receiving the photographs, Bastion  declined  Mr As claim.  Unhappy with the 
decision made by Bastion, Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator  considered Mr As complaint and thought it should be upheld.  Bastion 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Bastion declined Mr As claim it did so on the basis  that his policy  didnt cover 
"Maintenance, wear  & tear or cosmetic damage". Bastion relied  on the photographs provided 
by Mr A when it made this decision.
I have considered what Bastion have said and looked at the photographs myself. The 
images provided showed there was a problem with the machine and only a small section  of 
the appliance. The part shown was that closest to the floor and therefore  the area of the 
machine most likely to be affected by water, which explains the small amount of rust that can 
be seen.
I dont think Bastion acted  reasonably in declining Mr As case for the reason it has given  
with the information it had at the time and I think it should have done a more thorough 
investigation.
Mr A has provided further photographs of the appliance  he is claiming for since the 
complaint has been made to this service  which appear to show the appliance in a good state 
of repair. 
While I appreciate Bastion  feels Mr A should  have provided these  photographs  when making  
the claim,  as I said above, I think Bastion should have investigated the claim further and 
didnt make a fair decision when  it declined Mr As claim. 
I think Bastion should consider Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms of his policy. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to consider Mr As claim in line 
with the remaining terms of his insurance policy.
Ref: DRN05378562Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0537856