K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that their home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has 
declined their claim made for storm damage to a retaining wall which  they are partially  
responsible for.
background
Following a snow storm on 1 March 2018,  Mr and Mrs M noticed the retaining wall between 
their property and their neighbours was leaning  outwards at the top. They believed their 
neighbours had responsibility for this wall. In June 2018, following discovery that liability was 
shared, Mr and Mrs M made a claim to UKI.
Mr and Mrs M said it was going to cost £40,620.91 plus VAT to repair the wall, with their 
liability equating to half of this value. They also said their garage, situated next to the 
retaining wall would  have  to be taken down. This would cost £714  plus VAT and 
reinstatement was estimated at around  £8,000.  Some photos of the wall were  provided.
UKI said that its policy offers cover for one off events. It said it wont  offer cover where 
damage arises from poor construction,  and it listed why it felt Mr and Mrs Ms wall had been 
constructed poorly. Mr and Mrs M pointed out that the wall was 100 years old so it wasnt fair 
to consider its construction in light of modern building methods.  They  said their neighbours 
were getting  a cause  of damage report. UKI noted  the policy had cover for accidental  
damage and agreed to review weather records, to see if there had been a storm, alongside 
any report once that was provided.
In September Mr and Mrs M advised that no report had been made available to them. UKI 
considered what it would  cost Mr and Mrs M to obtain a report and decided  to send a builder  
out to look at the wall. The builder visited on 3 October 2018.
The builder  told UKI that he didnt  think  high winds would have damaged the wall but hed 
noted its age, condition and the presence  of nearby trees.  He said it seemed likely  the wall 
had deteriorated  gradually over time.  Around  the same time Mr and Mrs M sent UKI a house 
sellers report, provided by one of their neighbours.  This was dated 8 February 2018, it didnt 
record any fault or issue of concern for the wall, and indeed marked it as no immediate 
action or repair  is needed . It did note that the wall will require maintenance over time.
UKI, having considered the comments from its builder and the house sellers report, said the 
claim was still declined.  It said the evidence suggested the wall hadnt been  damaged  during 
a one-off event covered by the policy but rather it had deteriorated gradually. When
Mr and Mrs M complained, UKIs final response  to them  echoed  this finding. Mr and Mrs M 
complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. The complaint  was passed to me and I felt it should be upheld. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining my view to both parties   I felt UKI should cover  
Mr and Mrs Ms cost for the wall, pay their costs for dismantling the garage and pay or 
arrange to re-build the garage.  Both replied. 
UKI said it disagreed  with my findings. Mr and Mrs M said they welcomed them.  They sent 
detail about what  theyd done to reinstate  some storage at their home instead of re-building 
Ref: DRN07860752their garage. The detail,  along with the invoices for the work  to re-build the wall, was sent to 
UKI for consideration  (notwithstanding its objection to my provisional findings).
UKI said the costs incurred for reinstating storage were  less than what  it felt it would have  
cost to reinstate  the garage. So, in principle, whilst it still felt it had no liability  in this instance 
at all, it had no objection to the value incurred. But it said it felt the costs for re-building  the 
wall seemed a bit high and, if it were to be found liable for the damage to the wall, it should  
have chance to review  the costs further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional findings were:
policy consideration
As well as asking for their claim to be considered under the storm section of the policy,
Mr and Mrs M suggested it might fall for consideration under the flood or even landslip 
section. Landslip would require damage  to the house to be caused and flood usually needs 
there to be a body  of water.  Neither  of which seems  to have occurred here. So I wont look at 
these two areas of cover  further.
There were storm  conditions  prior to the reported date of loss. So, on the face of it, the cover 
for storm  might apply.
But I also have to consider the fact that Mr and Mrs Ms policy benefits from cover for 
accidental damage.  This is defined in the policy as sudden and unintended physical damage 
which is unexpected. Mr and Mrs M report the lean occurred suddenly  and no-one has 
suggested theyre wrong in this respect.  Nor has anyone shown it was intended or expected, 
but its definitely physical damage. On the face of it then the damage might  fall for 
consideration under the accidental damage  section. They may have a claim for storm or 
accidental damage.
storm
Retaining walls can be damaged by snow but the real question here is was the storm the 
dominant cause of the loss. UKI says not. But its only expert opinion on this comes from its 
builder. A builder  isnt best placed  to provide an expert opinion.  But, in any event, the builder, 
in his assessment,  considers whether high winds would have caused damage  to the wall  
when the cause of damage in question here was snow.  So Im not persuaded by his findings  
in this respect and no other expert opinion on the likely effect of the storm exists. Given  the 
timing of the loss, the snow storm does seem to have  been the aggravating  cause and I have 
to accept that a wall will rarely fail for no reason. So unless UKI can satisfy me that a relevant 
exclusion exists, I think a claim for storm should  fairly succeed.
accidental damage
As I mentioned above, UKI hasnt suggested that this claim doesnt meet the definition  of 
accidental damage.  That means, on the face of it, Mr and Mrs Ms claim should  succeed, 
unless, as I said above, UKI can persuade  me that it can reasonably  rely on a policy 
Ref: DRN07860753exclusion to defeat  its liability.
policy exclusions
Poor construction  Initially UKI said the wall had been poorly  constructed.  I note it later 
moved away from this argument. If it hadnt, Id have likely found  it was unfair for it to rely on 
such to defeat  the claim. An item isnt constructed poorly if its built in line with regulations or 
general practices that prevail at the time it was built, even if those have changed when the 
item later becomes damaged.
Gradual deterioration  UKIs builder, in October  2018, said the wall was suffering from 
gradual deterioration. But his comments arent entirely persuasive. He assumes the nearby 
trees are affecting  the wall but doesnt link their possible  or likely presence to the way the 
wall is damaged. His assessment also seems  to focus on the current  state  of the wall and 
doesnt seem to make any allowance  for the fact that he is viewing it some eight months after 
it first became damaged. UKI has seen the house sellers report  dated February 2018. Im 
unsure why it thinks this has no bearing  on the findings of its builder.  So I have to consider 
the fact that one month before the loss the wall was showing no obvious  sign of damage and 
wasnt in need  of any immediate assessment or attention  but eight months after the loss its 
felt it must have been suffering from gradual deterioration over a long period of time. I also 
have to bear in mind  that in February  2018  the walls condition was assessed  by a surveyor, 
but in October  2018 it was a builder  that looked  at it. On balance  I dont think UKI has shown 
it can reasonably rely on the gradual cause  exclusion to defeat its liability for this claim.
remedy
UKI will have to accept the claim under either the storm or accidental  damage cover. In line 
with our usual approach  it should  pick the one most favourable to Mr and Mrs M. As
I understand it the wall has been  rebuilt,  and this entailed the garage being demolished. It 
isnt clear if the garage has yet been re-built. UKI accepted early on in the claim that if it was 
liable for the wall, it would be liable for the garage  too. As the garage is solely owned by 
Mr and Mrs M, UKI is liable for its full cost, whereas for the wall its liability  is for half. 
Repairing the wall cost £40,620.91  so UKI will have  to pay Mr and Mrs M half this sum, 
£20,310.46, plus VAT (if VAT is charged)  and interest* on their total outlay from the date of 
the invoice for the work until payment is made. It will also have to pay them £714 for the 
garage demolition, plus VAT (if VAT is charged)  and interest* from the date of the invoice 
until payment is made. Both are subject  to proof  of payment being provided by 
Mr and Mrs M. If the garage has been  re-built it will have to reimburse Mr and Mrs Ms outlay, 
based on their invoices and taking into account  what it was required to provide under the 
policy  a like-for-like  replacement. If its yet to be re-built UKI will have to consider the claim 
in this respect.
compensation
Im not currently minded  to award compensation here. UKI was wrong but Mr and Mrs M 
were able to proceed  with the work anyway. Im not persuaded that beyond  some frustration 
and disappointment,  UKIs decision caused  them  much upset.
responses from the parties
Mr and Mrs M sent proof of payment  for the wall. They  explained they paid for it all, in 
instalments and then got reimbursement of half of the cost from their neighbour. The invoice 
Ref: DRN07860754provided showed the cost for dismantling the garage. It also detailed a cost for breaking out 
concrete and laying  hardcore  this Mr and Mrs M said was to do with reinstating some  
storage; instead  of replacing the garage theyd put in a bike shed. In addition to the costs on 
the invoice theyd paid for gravel  and the bike store  which they sent proof of. Mr M laid the 
gravel himself and said he will assemble the bike shed when it arrives (its currently  delayed  
but has been paid for). The total cost was £4,645.67, including  VAT.
When the invoices  were sent to UKI it said it accepted that the cost incurred of lieu of 
reinstating the garage were reasonable. But it felt the cost for re-building the wall was 
excessive.
Regarding its liability  for the loss, UKI said it had always  argued the wall had failed  gradually  
over time  so it didnt  agree  the definition of accidental damage had been  met. It noted that 
Mr and Mrs M had provided two home buyer  reports. One from 2011  which  noted some  
displacement to some boundary walls (my emphasis)  and recommended  maintenance. And 
one from 2018  which also referred to the need  for maintenance.  The report  in 2018 said the 
garden grounds had been adequately  maintained and the retaining and boundary walls (my 
emphasis) would require  regular maintenance. UKI said it was notable that the report  didnt 
say the retaining  and boundary walls had been adequately maintained. UKI also noted that 
the retaining wall was included within a section  which refers  to identifying problems and 
advising of any urgent repairs, although  it accepted it said none  were currently  needed.
UKI said it believed that the wall hadnt been  maintained since 2011,  even though  
Mr and Mrs M had been in the house  during that period  and had been aware of the need for 
regular maintenance. This would mean the wall had suffered wear and tear over those years, 
gradually deteriorating until the damage  reported was caused.
Further UKI said that its builder was adequately  experienced  to be able to determine  what 
may have  damaged the wall and he said it hadnt been damaged by a storm. UKI said that 
whilst Id noted the builder hadnt  referred  to snow, there was no evidence the damage had 
been caused by snow. UKI said its Property Insurance  Advisor  had also reviewed the claim 
and it was also his expert  opinion  that this damage  hadnt been caused by storm. And the 
builder had given  some reasons for what  he thought had caused the damage, which cast 
doubt on Mr Ms view of the cause. The builders view, that trees  had been  the proximate 
cause was supported  by the fact that the 2011 report  warned of planting trees too close  to 
the house and that trees,  particularly their roots, can cause damage.
UKI also noted that the ground  behind the wall was flat, so it felt it was unlikely that snow had 
pushed it over. It also commented  on the possibility of flood that Mr and Mrs M had put 
forwards. Finally  it said it was unfair  for me to direct it to choose which peril to log the claim 
under because I clearly  couldnt decide  what had caused the damage.
my review  of the responses
Id remind UKI that it isnt for me to determine what caused a loss subject of a claim. 
Rather its my job to determine,  when a policyholder is unhappy  with its decision, 
whether, in all the circumstances, the insurer has decided the claim fairly and reasonably. 
In this instance, given the policy options  available and the evidence  provided from both 
parties, I didnt feel that UKIs decision to decline the claim was fair or reasonable. It then 
falls to it to provide cover in line with that available on the policy.
Ref: DRN07860755I understand why UKI feels that it has had two experts consider the cause of loss. 
However, Im mindful that insurers are often  critical of reports from builders  instructed by 
policyholders who,  with little reasoning, comment on the suspected cause of damage. Im 
also not persuaded that comments from an adviser   whose qualifications havent been 
disclosed, and who has carried  out some kind of desktop review  can reasonably said to 
hold more weight  than those of a surveyor who viewed  the wall just one month  before  the 
damage claim was made.
I understand that UKI thinks  the home  buyers  report from February 2018 isnt 
persuasive. Ive considered its comments. However,  I think it isnt helpful to pick apart  the 
wording of the report in the way that UKI has done.  If the surveyor had noted an issue of 
lack of repair to the retaining wall that needed  urgent  attention then this would have been 
identified and detailed.  It was not. I fail to see how a wall that does not present  as 
needing any assessment or repair in February 2018  can fail substantially,  likely due to 
gradual deterioration over time, just one month later. And nothing UKI presented during 
the claim or in response to my provisional findings, as summarised  but set out in some  
detail above, has persuaded  me that this was likely the case.
Having reviewed everything, I remain of the view that UKI is liable under the policy  for the 
damage which occurred  to Mr and Mrs Ms shared retaining wall. I remain  of the view that 
it must  reimburse their cost incurred for repairing and reinstating the grounds of their 
home, to the extent  to which they were  liable for doing so. Whilst UKI may feel the costs 
incurred for reinstating  the wall were excessive it had declined  the claim and this was 
what Mr and Mrs M had to pay to have the work  done. They  shouldnt  be left out of 
pocket as a result. I note UKI has accepted  that the costs incurred for installing a bike 
shed instead of a garage  are reasonable. Whilst the bike shed isnt like the garage it has 
met Mr and Mrs Ms storage  needs  and I understand this option was chosen  in order to 
mitigate their outlay incurred as result of losing the garage and whilst UKI was declining 
their claim. I think its fair and reasonable to say UKI should reimburse those costs in lieu 
of paying for or organising replacement of the garage.  Im also satisfied that VAT was 
incurred so UKIs settlement should include the VAT cost. I remain of the view that 
interest should also be added to the settlement. To allow UKI to pay the VAT and interest 
amounts it may need Mr and Mrs M to provided it with details of their interim invoices and 
instalments paid to their builder for its work  to reinstate the wall which included removal  
of the garage  along with its base.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M, upon sight 
of proof  of payment:
£20,310.46, plus VAT to reimburse  the outlay they are liable for in respect of 
reinstating the wall, plus interest* from the date each instalment payment which makes 
up this total was paid to the builder and until settlement  is made.
£714, plus VAT to reimburse their cost for demolishing the garage,  plus interest* from 
the date this sum, in addition to the figure  in my last bullet  point was paid to the builder 
and until settlement is made.
£2,220.56, plus VAT to reimburse  their cost for removing the base for the garage, plus 
interest* from the date the final invoice,  which included the cost for this work, was paid 
to the builder and until settlement is made.
Ref: DRN07860756£1,981 (including VAT so none to be added), to reimburse  their costs for gravel and 
the bike store, plus interest* from the date any sum which  makes up this total was paid 
and until settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If 
U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due 
to Mr and Mrs M, it should tell them how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing  this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0786075