K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc mis-sold him a fixed rate business  loan.
background
In May 2009  Mr J took out a five-year loan for £660,000 from Clydesdale  to refinance 
existing borrowing and to fund a property purchase. The interest rate on £500,000 of the 
loan was fixed for the five years and the remaining £160,000 was on a variable rate.
In 2015 Mr J complained  to the bank that the loan agreement  had been  mis-sold. The bank 
didnt offer Mr J any compensation, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She gave these 
reasons, in summary:
She thought  the bank hadnt given Mr J enough  information about the potential costs  
of ending the fixed rate early. 
But she thought  Mr J wouldnt  have  acted any differently if he had been fully 
informed. Given the flexibility  to repay in part if needed, she thought Mr J would still 
have chosen to fix the rate, for the benefit of stability and protection from rate rises.
Mr J didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions.  His representative made  these points, in 
summary:
Mr J feels  strongly  that he was misled by the bank and has been adversely  affected 
as a result. Had the misrepresentation not occurred, he wouldnt have proceeded 
with the fixed  rate loan.
The bank  was fully aware there was a possibility that all of the loan could have been 
repaid in the fixed rate period.  There was a clause  inserted  in the facility agreement 
stating that an additional fee was payable in the event that more  than 50% of the 
borrowing was repaid early. For the bank to have  inserted a clause of this nature it 
must have believed there was a possibility that it would be relied on.
From  2013 onwards  Mr J sought to refinance  the facilities but the redemption  costs 
prevented him from doing so.
Theres an inherent similarity between the risks of fixed rate loans and those of 
stand-alone interest rate hedging products (IRHPs). A small business complaint 
about a fixed rate loan shouldnt be treated differently from a small business 
complaint about an IRHP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to tell Mr J that 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as the adjudicator, and for largely the same  reasons.
I agree  that Clydesdale didnt fully explain the potential scale  of break  costs   so I need  to 
decide what would have happened if the bank had given Mr J all the correct information. It 
Ref: DRN02830102isnt possible to be certain what would have happened, so I have to decide  what was most 
likely.
In 2009, the base rate and LIBOR rates  had fallen to historic lows.  I think  fixing  the interest 
rate on Mr Js borrowing  would have seemed attractive at the time,  to give security  from the 
risk of increased rates in the future. Ive seen  no evidence that Mr J intended  to pay off all 
his borrowing early, so I dont think the risk of early exit costs would have outweighed the 
advantages of having known repayments throughout the loan term. A quarter of the lending 
was left on a variable rate, giving Mr J flexibility to repay part of it early. In the circumstances 
I think its likely that Mr J would still have chosen the fixed rate loan even if he was fully 
informed about  the potential scale of the break costs.
In the event, interest rates remained  low and in 2013 Mr J wished  to shop around for a better 
deal, but he wasnt  able to do so because  of the cost of breaking the fixed rate loan. I can 
understand Mr Js frustration, but it doesnt  mean he would have  acted differently in 2009. It 
wouldnt be right to base  my decision on hindsight. In 2009,  no one knew  what would 
happen to interest  rates  and I believe Mr Js decision to fix was based on reasonable 
prudence about  future repayment costs.
As far as I can see, the clause about the additional  early redemption fee was in a different 
agreement, in 2005, and it wasnt in the 2009 agreement thats the subject of this complaint. 
But even if it had related to the 2009 agreement,  I dont think  such  a clause would  indicate  
that the bank had an expectation that Mr J would actually repay  more  than half the loan 
during the fixed  rate period. 
I agree  with Mr Js representative that the break cost risks associated  with fixed rate 
business loans  can be very similar  to those that come with free-standing IRHPs. This service 
looks at each complaint  on its individual merits, taking into account the particular 
circumstances of the case.  This is true for all complaints, including  those about interest rate 
hedging  whether they involve fixed rate loans or IRHPs  and its what Ive done  in Mr Js 
case.
For the reasons  set out above, I dont require Clydesdale  to pay any compensation to Mr J.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr J to accept or reject 
my decision  before 8 February 2019.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0283010