K820x#14complaint
Mr O took out a number  of packaged  bank accounts  with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) from 
2009 to 2013 and he says they were  mis-sold.
background
Mr O took out the following Added Value Accounts  (AVA) with Lloyds:
PBA How it was sold Date of sale
Silver AVA Online July 2009
Gold Service AVA Telephone October 2009
Gold Vantage AVA Online March 2010
Platinum Advantage  AVA Online July 2010
Premier Advantage AVA Online February 2011
Premier Vantage AVA Online June 2013
Mr O says that he that he took out the accounts because he believed they would put him in a 
better position to borrow from Lloyds.  He also says that he had a medical condition  from 
birth that would have  prevented him from claiming  on some insurance policies.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Lloyds mis-sold the accounts. Mr O disagrees so the case  
has come  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O had fee free bank  accounts before he took out any of the AVAs  so in my view he was 
aware he had a choice about  whether to take them out and he chose to do so.
All the online accounts were sold on a non advised basis. In other words Lloyds didnt 
recommend the AVAs  or advise Mr O to take them. Lloyds  did advise Mr O to take the Gold  
Service AVA which was sold over the phone. So the requirement  on Lloyds was to provide 
sufficient information  to Mr O to make an informed  choice about the policies sold online. And 
for the telephone sale Lloyds was also required to check  whether the policy was suitable for 
him.
Ive considered each  of the online sales above. I dont know  exactly how the various 
products were presented to Mr O but I think its very unlikely that he took out the accounts 
with no information  at all about them.  After the initial purchase of the Silver  AVA in July 
2009, Mr O immediately registered for the mobile  phone insurance. This suggests  to me that 
its more likely than not that he knew a significant  amount about what he was buying  and that 
hed decided  it was worth his while to do so. I also think that when making his later 
purchases he was familiar  with the product type and its more likely  than not that he knew  
what he was buying. 
When he took out the Gold Service  AVA, Lloyds  needed to ensure it was suitable  for him. I 
dont know how well it did this, but Mr Os subsequent  use of the product indicates that it was 
suitable for him and he more likely than not didnt lose out in buying it.
Ref: DRN01057342But Mr O has said that he has two main  complaints. Firstly he says Lloyds misled him into 
thinking that he would be in a better  position  to borrow  from them  if he took the AVAs. 
I think its unlikely the AVAs  were presented to him in this way. I say this because this 
service has no systemic evidence that Lloyds did this. I do think its possible  that Mr O read 
about the offering of lower  interest  rate overdrafts with packaged bank accounts and 
possibly placed  his own interpretation on it. But overall Im not persuaded, as I would need  to 
be to uphold Mr Os complaint on this point, that its more likely than not that Lloydss 
presentation of the information  about  the account  or any lack of information about  the 
account misled Mr O in this way.
Mr Os second complaint is that hed had a significant medical condition from birth that might  
have excluded him from using the travel insurance.  However I think  he would have been 
very aware  of this having  bought travel insurance before and I think its more likely than not 
that he would have checked  carefully about  the cover available  through  the AVAs before  
assuming how it worked. So Im not persuaded that Mr O would have been put off taking 
insurance through the AVA for this reason. I note that in the Gold  Service AVA which  Lloyds 
recommended, pre-existing medical  conditions were  not excluded, but needed to be 
declared. 
So overall, I dont  think that Lloyds mis-sold the AVAs to Mr O or that he lost out as a result 
of anything Lloyds  did or didnt  do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0105734