K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a packaged
bank account  called  a Current Account Plus and several years later converted  him to a new 
account to which it added  a Tech Pack, without his permission. 
Mr M paid monthly fees for both the Current Account Plus and the Tech Pack  and has told 
us that he believes  he only agreed to have  a fee-free account  with Barclays.  He wants 
Barclays to pay him compensation  for damages. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought  that Barclays 
had treated him fairly  in the way it handled  his complaint and didnt recommend that it should 
do anything further.  
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Ms complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr M and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case,  and 
Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain why.
Before going into the details of Mr Ms case, I would  like to explain that he has brought  
several other  complaints about Barclays to us, but in this decision,  I have only considered 
the way Barclays  sold the Current Account Pus and the Tech  Pack to him. I have not looked 
into any of his other complaints, which we are considering  separately.
Mr M has banked  with Barclays  for quite a while. Barclays  has sent us a summary of its
account history for him, which shows that:
 
Mr M opened  a fee-free account  in September 2011, 
in March 2012, Barclays sold him the Current Account Plus and started  to charge him 
monthly fees, 
In May 2016, Barclays changed Mr M to a fee-free account, but attached the Tech 
Pack to the account  for which it charged monthly  fees.
I believe that Barclays records about this are reliable and I have  taken them to be accurate.
Although it took Barclays quite a while to conclude its own investigation into Mr Ms 
complaint, when it did so, it accepted that it had mis-sold both the Current Account Plus and 
the Tech Pack to him. I understand  that it compensated him by refunding  him each of the 
monthly fees he had paid and adding simple interest at the rate of 8% per year to each fee 
from the time he paid it until the time of the refund. I consider this to have been fair 
compensation. It matches the way we tell banks to put things right for customers if they mis-
Ref: DRN09316652sell packaged bank  accounts; and as Barclays has agreed that it mis-sold both the Current  
Account Plus and the Tech Pack, I have not looked at the sales themselves any further. 
Mr M has also said that as a result of paying  the monthly fees for the Current  Account Plus 
and the Tech Pack, Barclays may have charged  him additional fees for overdrawing  his 
account, which it didnt  include  in its refund. He worked this out by calculating the running 
total of the fees he paid. He particularly highlighted  a payment to a water  company.
I understand Mr Ms reasoning, but current accounts  usually incur  a lot of transactions on a 
day-to-day basis and its difficult to say that the monthly fees Mr M paid for the mis-sold 
accounts led directly to any extra charges. So, in this case, I dont think  it was unfair if 
Barclays didnt include them in its refund. Nor do I think  that Barclays should pay Mr M any 
more money for damages.
Barclays paid the refund directly into Mr Ms bank account. I understand that Mr M wasnt 
happy about this. I gather  that this may have been  because Barclays didnt explain what it 
was doing, or because  Mr M also wanted  compensation for damages,  or because  he thought 
Barclays had acted  illegally and he was considering court action. However, in the 
circumstances, I think  it was reasonable  for Barclays to pay the refund in this way.
I further understand that Mr M asked  Barclays  to take back some or all of the refund from his 
account and that it subsequently did so. This was a matter for Mr M and has not had affected 
my decision  about this case. 
Mr M has also said he that he wants  us to force Barclays to terminate activities  which he 
considers illegal. However,  as I believe that Barclays acted fairly in the way it ultimately 
resolved Mr Ms complaint, there  is nothing  further  for me to tell it to do.
 
Finally, I understand  that Mr M may still have the Tech Pack.  I have seen copies of letters 
which Barclays wrote  to him which explain how he can cancel it if so wishes. This is, of 
course, entirely up to him, but if he no longer  wants the Tech  Pack, he may wish to contact 
Barclays directly.  
So, in summary,  as Barclays accepted that it mis-sold the Current  Account Plus and the 
Tech Pack to Mr M and then paid him appropriate  compensation, I think that it has put right 
anything it had done wrong  and that ultimately  it treated him fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about  Barclays
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0931665