K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited didnt pay enough compensation 
to her after it made serious  errors  when  renewing her motor  insurance policy.
background
Miss Hs policy  was due to renew  on 19 August  2018. Hastings noted on that date that the 
policy hadnt renewed correctly, so it needed  to contact Miss H. It didnt  do so. On 
14 November 2018 Hastings was told by the Motor Insurers  Bureau  (MIB) that Miss H had 
been stopped by the police for driving with no insurance. Hastings confirmed she was 
insured, but again didnt contact Miss H to say the renewal wasnt  done correctly. 
The MIB called Hastings  on 24 November 2018  when Miss H was stopped  by the police 
again. Hastings  told it the car was insured. The next day Miss H called Hastings.  It told her 
she was insured and sent her a certificate of insurance. Two days  later it noted on the file 
that the policy hadnt been renewed correctly,  but Miss H wasnt  informed. 
On 13 December 2018 the MIB told Hastings  Miss H had been stopped by the police for 
having no insurance for the third time. Hastings said Miss H had been told the policy hadnt 
renewed, so she knew  she was driving without insurance. Miss H called the same day to 
query what Hastings had told the MIB. Shed  been  instructed by the police not to drive her 
car whilst they considered  charging her with driving  without insurance. A new policy was 
started that day, but Hastings advisor  sent another consumers  documents to Miss H. 
On 21 December 2018 Hastings wrote a letter of mitigating circumstances for Miss H to try 
to prevent her being fined or given penalty  points  on her licence. It said it would assist  her 
should that happen anyway. It said cover would be provided for any incidents that arose 
during the period she was uninsured. It also apologised for what it said was an exceptionally 
poor level of service and offered Miss H £200 compensation for the upset it had caused.
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Hs complaint.  He thought  the level of distress and 
inconvenience Miss H had faced merited an award  of £500 compensation. Hastings thought 
the sum proposed was too high, as Miss H hadnt had her car impounded or had to attend 
court. It said what might  have happened (for example, the chance she might have lost her 
job) couldnt  be taken into account when  deciding what  compensation was reasonable. It 
said the impact of being stopped by the police would have reduced on each occasion.  It 
asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think it should  be upheld.
I think its understandable that Miss H commented in her complaint on what might have 
happened during the four months she was driving uninsured, as well as what did happen.  I 
agree with Hastings  that she cant be compensated for what  could have occurred. But I dont 
think the £200 compensation Hastings offered Miss H was enough,  given the amount of 
distress and inconvenience she faced.
Hastings knew in August  2018 that the renewal hadnt been done properly, so it knew  
Ref: DRN05847982Miss H was uninsured.  It missed the chance to put that right.  It had had two further  chances  
in November 2018 to do that, but it still didnt do so. Miss H had to deal with the shock  and 
embarrassment of being stopped by the police twice in a short  time because  they thought  
she wasnt insured. I think that would  have been  very stressful  for someone  not used to 
contact with the police or of being  suspected  of an offence. 
I dont agree with Hastings that it would have  been easier for Miss H the third time the police 
stopped her, on the basis that by then she was used  to it. I think contact  with the police   
with the threat of being charged   would be disturbing and intimidating for most people  each  
time it happened.  And on this occasion,  the police  were  told Miss H wasnt  insured, so it 
seems very unlikely that she was treated sympathetically by them.   
Miss H was horrified to learn from the police that shed been  driving  uninsured and could no 
longer drive  her car. Hastings had assured  her less than three weeks earlier  that she was 
covered. She says she was mortified that Hastings  had wrongly told the police that she was 
knowingly driving uninsured. And she then had the inconvenience and frustration of having 
to sort out the issue with Hastings so she had insurance in place quickly. 
At the same time, Miss H faced the prospect of being fined  and getting  points  on her licence. 
In the end the police dropped any action, but it was several weeks  before she was told their 
decision. In my opinion,  her escaping a possible prosecution doesnt detract from the fact 
that she was subjected to worry and upset  about  the prospect of it. 
I think Miss H was utterly confused and frustrated  by what had happened. When the extent 
of Hastings poor service  became clear,  I think it did what any broker or insurer could 
reasonably have been expected to do in the circumstances. It tried to mitigate the situation  
by writing a letter and agreeing to cover uninsured incidents. But it was Hastings acts and 
omissions that led to Miss H becoming  uninsured in the first place and remaining so. I think it 
also acted reasonably by accepting responsibility for what it referred  to as a catalogue  of 
errors and by apologising to Miss H. But in my view its compensation offer wasnt  adequate.
I dont think Hastings suggestion of £75 maximum for each time Miss H was stopped  by the 
police fully takes into account what those  occasions  alone would have felt like for Miss H. 
And it doesnt address at all her shock at not being insured or her worry about  what  action 
the police  would take. It doesnt take account  of her inconvenience  in having to sort out the 
issue with Hastings, either. It seems Miss H had to spend a long time on the phone to it 
when a call shouldnt have been necessary. Then  she was sent the wrong details for her 
new insurance, as well as getting another consumers details in error. Taking  everything  into 
account, in my opinion  it would  be reasonable for Hastings to pay Miss H a further £300 on 
top of the £200 it has already offered  her for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN05847983my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Miss H £500  in total for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0584798