K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  The complaint is brought on her behalf  by a claims management 
company.
Background
This complaint is about an Egg credit card PPI policy taken out in May 2003.  The policy was 
added to Mrs Bs credit  card account  when she applied for the card online. 
In my provisional decision dated  22 October 2019, I explained why I didnt think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
 I think  Canada Square  made Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and a separate  
product from the credit card,  and that she chose to take it. I say this because  the 
online application process  included equally clear  options to accept or decline the PPI 
and Mrs B clicked the yes box to confirm  that she wanted it. 
 Canada Square  Operations didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to 
check if it was suitable  for her. 
 Mrs B says she didnt need the PPI because she wouldve received full pay for the full 
term of any absence from work, if this was due to a work related injury. She was more  
likely than the general population to be off work because of such an injury  because of 
the nature of her work. But it was equally likely  that she might not have been unable  to 
work because of an illness  or accident  completely unrelated  to her employment. In this 
case she wouldve  received  six months full pay followed by six months half pay. The 
PPI wouldve covered  her for up to 12 months, so I find it couldve been a useful  
benefit. As noted  earlier, Canada  Square didnt recommend the policy  to Mrs B so it 
didnt have to check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for her. She knew  what  
arrangements she already had in place and it was up to her to decide if she wanted 
the PPI in addition  to her existing arrangements. As Mrs B chose to take the PPI, 
I think she wanted to protect her repayments against illness and unemployment.
Ive taken into consideration that Mrs B says she couldve relied on family  members to 
meet her repayments  if she couldnt work. But this wasnt  a guaranteed source of 
income, so doesnt  change  my conclusion.
 Its possible  the information Canada Square Operations  gave Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mrs B chose  to take out the policy  and so 
appears to have  wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced  and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs B would  have made a different decision if better 
information had been  provided.  On balance I think she would still have taken out the 
policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Canada Square doesnt need  to refund 
everything Mrs B paid for it. 
Ref: DRN05945922But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Canada Square  said it had no further  information  to provide following my provisional 
decision.
Mrs Bs representative said it would let us know  if it had any further  comments, but it didnt 
provide anything by the date it said it would.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional information or evidence  in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier  conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada  Square Operations 
Limited does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0594592