K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds service following a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
background
Mr Ns car was stolen following a break-in at his home. The car was later recovered  and 
eventually deemed  to be beyond economical repair. As Mr Ns car was still fairly new,  in line 
with his policy Acromas offered to replace the car with an equivalent model.  But owing to 
delays with the car suppliers there  would  have been a significant delay in the car being 
provided. Instead Mr N accepted Acromas offer of a cash in lieu settlement for the value of 
his car.
Mr N had a number of concerns  about  Acromas service including:  delays;  Acromas  
providing inconsistent  information; the amount it settled  his claim for the loss of personal 
belongings; and the method and delays  in providing  the settlement for his car.  
Acromas acknowledged  that not all of its service was up to standard. So, in two complaints 
responses, it paid Mr N £300 compensation in total.  Mr N brought his complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators looked into Mr Ns concerns. She thought that Acromas  should increase its 
compensation award in recognition of the impact  of its delays by £100. And she thought it 
should increase  the settlement for Mr Ns stolen personal items by £100; bringing it to £200  
in total. Acromas agreed to increase its compensation amount but didn't think  it was fair to 
increase the settlement for Mr Ns claim for personal belongings. So the complaints  been  
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ns made  a number  of detailed points. And I've considered  
everything he and Acromas have had to say very carefully. But in this decision I will focus on 
what I see as being the key outstanding issues following  our adjudicators  assessment  of 
Mr Ns complaint.
I've noted  that the total time from Mr N telling  Acromas about the theft to it settling his claim 
was a little over four months.  Acromas acknowledged this delay, together  with some  of the 
other areas where its service could have  been  better, when it initially paid Mr N £200  
compensation. But given the considerable delays involved and the frustration I have  no 
doubt Mr N experienced  during that delay, I think £100 further compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr N claimed  for personal items lost when  the car was stolen. He provided a list of the 
specific items with the replacement cost of each, which  came  to roughly £324. Acromas  paid 
Mr N £100 to settle his claim. In response to our adjudicators  assessment  it told us that it 
thinks £100 is a fair settlement as its best practice is to pay a maximum of £100  in respect 
of personal belongings. It said that was because it considers that sum enough to cover the 
Ref: DRN01167642general belongings it would expect to find in an average car. But Mr Ns claim wasn't for an 
average car it was for his car and the specific items  he lost. And his policy  says that 
Acromas will cover  the cost of personal belongings up to £1,000. It doesn't say that it will 
add a limit of £100. So, its not fair to apply such a limit when Mr N's provided an itemised  list 
of the things that have been stolen.
Acromas has said that some of the items Mr N claimed for were  up to 30 years old and so 
would have depreciated in value. Mr Ns policy doesn't  cover wear and tear or depreciation, 
so I think its fair that it doesn't pay the full cost of Mr Ns claim. But its also apparent that 
many of the items Mr N lost would have been  recent  purchases. So I dont think Acromas is 
justified in reducing its settlement so significantly. 
Acromas has added that Mr N didn't provide  proof of ownership of his items. I acknowledge 
that Acromas policy requires Mr N to provide evidence in support of his claim. But Acromas 
had already accepted - in a letter to Mr N - that most  of the items he was claiming  for were  
not things he would  keep receipts  for or be able to provide proof of ownership of. So, I don't 
think it would  be reasonable to reduce Mr Ns claim because he couldn't provide proof of 
ownership of those items. 
Acromas has commented to us specifically that Mr N wasn't prepared to provide proof  of 
ownership of sunglasses, by, for example, sending a photo  of him wearing the sunglasses. 
But while Mr N could have done that, I note that he said the cost of replacement sunglasses 
was £40. I'm aware that many people keep sunglasses in their car to shade their eyes  while 
driving. And Mr N wasn't claiming hed lost expensive designer sunglasses,  which  he might 
have kept the receipt for, rather he was saying hed lost something that could be expected to 
be lost from a car theft. So again, I don't think the fact that Mr N didn't prove hed owned a 
pair of relatively inexpensive sunglasses was justification for reducing  his claim so 
dramatically. But as I've said above, given that his policy doesn't cover wear  and tear, and 
by his own admission  some of his lost property was very old, I think  that a figure of £200 in 
total to settle Mr Ns claim for his lost items is fair. That means Acromas should  pay him a 
further £100, it should add simple interest to that at a rate of 8% a year from the date of 
Mr Ns claim to the date it makes payment. 
For completeness Ill add that Mr N was unhappy that Acromas settled the claim for his car 
by sending a cheque rather than a speedier  electronic method of money transfer. But I don't 
think that an insurers business decision to settle  claims by cheque is inherently  unfair  or 
unreasonable. That said I'm aware  that there was a delay in Acromas providing the cheque 
but that it paid Mr N £100 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience  arising  
from that. I think that was fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Acromas  Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Pay Mr N a further £100 to settle  his claim for stolen personal belongings. Acromas  
should add simple interest to that at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ns claim 
to the date it makes  payment1.
1 If Acromas considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN01167643Pay Mr N a further £100 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience 
arising from the delays  in the handling  of Mr Ns claim. This should be paid within 28 
days of us telling them that Mr N has accepted my final decision. If they pay later 
than this, they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0116764