K821x#15complaint
Mr L is unhappy about the compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  paid to him for the mis-
sale of payment protection insurance  (PPI) associated with a business loan. 
background
Mr L took out a business loan in March 2003 and at the same time took out a PPI policy.  
Mr L complained in 2014 that he had been  mis-sold  PPI with a business loan, but this 
complaint was made to a different business that was part of the Lloyds group of companies.  
This business could  not find any loan or overdraft for Mr Ls business.  
Mr L brought his complaint about the no PPI issues to this service in 2015. More information  
was requested from Mr L in June  2015.  In November 2015 Mr L said he was trying  to obtain 
more information  and accepted his complaint would be closed unless anything further could 
be provided by him.
In March 2016 Mr L provided some information about a business  loan he had taken out. 
Some of the documentation provided referred to Lloyds.  Therefore, this service asked both 
Lloyds and the other business entity to check their records. Both indicted based on the 
information provided no business  loan or PPI was found. 
In August  2016  we asked Mr L if he could provide more account details. Mr L didnt respond 
and at the end of August  2016 Mr L was advised his complaint, would be closed without 
further evidence  being provided.
In 2019 Mr L raised a complaint with this service that in March 2019  that Lloyds Commercial  
had indicated it had found a business account  for him and he referred back  to his previous 
complaint brought in 2015. In May 2019 Lloyds offered to uphold  Mr Ls complaint that the 
PPI, which  had been taken out alongside  business  loan in 2003, was mis-sold. 
Mr L said he was unhappy with the offer of compensation Lloyds had made as he felt it 
should be substantially  more, especially taking account of the stress and upset he had been 
put to in pursuing his complaint. He raised  concerns  about the length  of time it had taken to 
resolve the matter  and also that Lloyds had in 2019  written on occasions to an old address, 
despite also having sent him correspondence  to his correct address. 
Mr L also said that when  it made  its offer Lloyds had indicated if he was unhappy with the 
offer, he should contact  them.  He says he did write to Lloyds but had not received any 
response to his complaint about  the amount of the offer. So Mr L asked this service to look 
at his complaint,  against Lloyds, to determine  what the amount of compensations should  be. 
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had offered for the compensation  to repay the costs  of the 
PPI was fair. But that it had not handled  the complaint  well and suggested Lloyds should pay 
and additional  amount  of £300.00 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr L.
But Mr L wasnt happy with this amount and said it should be more,  in his view at least  
£700.00.
As Mr L didnt agree  with what our adjudicator has said the complaint has been  passed to 
me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN04891212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L complained in 2014 that he had been  mis-sold  PPI with a business loan, but this 
complaint was made to a different business entity, although it was part of the Lloyds group of 
companies. Although  these two businesses are part of the same  overall company, they are 
separate businesses.  This other business entity could  not find any loan or overdraft for Mr 
Ls business. 
Mr L brought his complaint about the no PPI issues to this service in 2015. More information  
was requested from Mr L in June  2015  by this service  to enable the other business entity to 
locate any financial products or PPI for Mr L and his business. After several chaser calls and 
letters, in November 2015 Mr L said he was trying to obtain more  information and accepted 
his complaint would be closed unless  anything further could be provided by him.
In March 2016 Mr L did come back with some information about  a business loan he had 
taken out, although this did not evidence any PPI. Although Mr L referred to the other  
business entity in his covering letter, the documentation provided  referred  to Lloyds.  
Therefore, this service  asked both Lloyds and the other business entity to check  their 
records to see if the loan and any PPI cold be traced.  Both indicted based  on the information 
provided no business loan or PPI was found. 
However, Lloyds indicated it would require the business account details, including sort code  
and account number to fully trace this business loan. In August 2016  we asked Mr L if he 
could provide the account details for his business  to pass  to Lloyds. Mr L didnt respond and 
at the end of August 2016 Mr L was advised  his complaint, would be closed without further 
evidence being  provided.
There has been some confusion about  the different businesses  and Mr L has at various 
times since 2015, when  he first came to this service, referred  to both business  names.  But 
his original complaint  to the business  in 2014  was not raised with Lloyds  and his response 
letters from the other business  entity were provided  when he first brought  his complaint to 
this service. 
It is not the fault of Lloyds that the original complaint was taken by Mr L to the wrong  
business and when that complaint was brought to this service  it was set up against the other 
business entity. This was based on the information  provided by Mr L and it seems he was 
confused about the two separate businesses and treating them  as one.
When some  evidence was provided suggesting  the correct business may be Lloyds in 2016, 
Lloyds was contacted but needed more information. Mr L did not provide that information at 
the time in 2016, so nothing further happened  at that time.  
I am not therefore  satisfied that the delay in finding the loan account and PPI, since  2014, is 
all the fault of Lloyds. I understand that Mr L feels very aggrieved that it took some  six years 
to finally  trace the loan and PPI and obtain  an offer of settlement from Lloyds. But the mixed 
information provided by Mr L hasnt helped  when trying to identify the correct  business. 
Ref: DRN04891213The original  complaint to this service in 2015 was not against  Lloyds  and Lloyds cannot  be 
held totally responsible for the delay that occurred between then and 2019 when Mr Ls 
complaint was correctly  directed to Lloyds,  based  on the information that he was then able to 
provide.
Once Lloyds identified the business loan in March  2019 it processed the complaint and 
made an offer of compensation to settle the complaint in May 2019. Lloyds has provided a 
copy of its calculations showing  how it has worked out the compensation it offered.
 
The PPI taken out was paid for by a single premium that was added to the loan.  So Mr L 
paid interest on it until the loan was settled. Lloyds calculation shows  it has refunded  all the 
premiums and interest that was paid by Mr L from when the loan started until it was settled in 
2005. Also it has refunded  the amount for the cost of the premium that was still in the loan 
when the loan was settled. So in the compensation offer Lloyds as repaid fully to Mr L 
everything he paid for the PPI.
In addition, it has worked out compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple,  for the time 
that Mr L was out of pocket for any of the costs  of PPI, that is from 2003, until Lloyds paid 
the compensation to Mr L in 2019.  Therefore,  I think  what Lloyds has calculated  for the total 
compensation and paid to Mr L is fair.
I would also add that if this complaint had been  raised with Lloyds  rather than the other 
business entity - in 2014/2015  and the compensation  had been paid then, less 
compensatory interest  would have been payable. So, although it has taken longer for Mr L to 
get his complaint resolved, he has received compensatory interest for the additional years  
he was out of pocket.
Other issues  have also been  raised  about  how Lloyds has dealt with the complaint since  it 
was raised with it in 2019. I have seen nothing to show that Lloyds did respond  to the 
complaint Mr L made about the offer he received.
I can also see that although at times Lloyds did write to Mr L at his correct  in 2019, it also 
sent some  correspondence to the old business  address.  Lloyds has acknowledged this error  
Indicating one team did not update the address.
Overall, I am not satisfied  with the way Lloyds has dealt with this complaint since  2019.  The 
incorrect address was used more  than once, and Lloyds didnt respond to all complaint  
matters raised by Mr L. So, I think Mr L has been put to some  trouble and upset, more  than 
what we would normally expect when a consumer makes a complaint. 
I think £300.00, as recommended by our adjudicator, is a fair amount for the trouble and 
upset that Mr L has been  put to. I have considered the arguments put forward by Mr L that 
this should be more, but I am not persuaded this amount should be increased.  I think  
£300.00 is fair additional compensation  for the trouble and upset Mr L has been put to and 
Lloyds should  pay that amount in addition to the compensation for the mis-sole redress  and 
compensatory interest.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think what Lloyds Bank PLC has paid for the 
compensation for the costs of the PPI and related compensatory interest is fair. 
Ref: DRN04891214But as Lloyds Bank PLC has not dealt with this complaint well, I think  it should  pay an 
additional £300.00 to Mr L for the trouble and upset  he has been put to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0489121