K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that Barclays Bank  Plc took too long to investigate her account  having put it 
under review. This had significant financial and emotional consequences for her.
background
In December 2016 Barclays decided it had cause  to review Ms S account. This meant that 
her only access  to her account  was by branch visit with two forms of identification. This 
situation continued for 18 months.
Ms S salary was paid into her account  and she visited  a branch at least  once a month to 
withdraw or transfer  her money.  She constantly  raised the issue  of her account  review with 
branch staff who tried to chase the matter  centrally  on her behalf. But it was not until some 18 
months later that Barclays logged  a complaint and released Ms S account  for normal use.
Barclays offered Ms S £750 for the inconvenience and distress it had caused her by taking 
as long as it had to review  her account. It said the review should  have taken  around  10 days, 
not 18 months.
Ms S rejected that offer saying that it went nowhere  near compensating her for what had 
happened. She said that the lengthy  period of limited access  to her account  had caused her 
financial difficulties, pushed her into a spiral of debt that impacted on her credit rating, led to 
the loss of her rented  accommodation, compromised  her ability  to buy a home  due to a 
County Court Judgement  against her and caused  her mental health problems leading to the 
breakdown of her personal relationship.
Having considered the available  information our adjudicator had no doubt  that Barclays  had 
been at fault. And given what had happened  she considered its offer of compensation to 
have been too low. She asked Ms S to provide  supporting documentary evidence  of the 
problems she had been caused by Barclays 18 month delay. The adjudicator needed these 
to form a view on the extent to which the bank was wholly  or partly responsible for the 
adverse consequences identified by Ms S. Ms S supplied  part of a credit report.
Based on the available information our adjudicator recommended  that Barclays pay Ms S 
£1,200, and Barclays agreed.
Ms S disagreed saying, in summary, that this sum fell far short  of adequate compensation 
for all that had happened to her as a result of Barclays review of her account.
Ms S requested an ombudsmans review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear to me that Barclays has been very much at fault here. Having found it had cause to 
put Ms S account under review, which it was entitled to do without giving her a reason, it 
would normally have  expected to complete that process within  10 days. Instead the matter 
seems to have languished in the system  for some 18 months.
Ref: DRN06851452I accept that Ms S had access to her money  during this time, but only at considerable 
inconvenience to herself because she had to visit a branch with identification each time. And 
these visits were not easy for her to arrange  as she was working.
She frequently raised  the matter of her account with branch  staff,  who appear to have tried 
to help, but without any progress being  made.  Her account remained blocked until Barclays 
registered her complaint  some 18 months later.  This led to an investigation and the block  
being removed.
Barclays has accepted  that its customer service  was poor and initially  offered Ms S £750 
compensation. Ms S has said that neither  that or Barclays revised offer of £1200 based  on 
our adjudicators investigation  sufficiently compensates her for what she has been  through.
The issue  for me to decide therefore  is the level of compensation that I consider fair and 
reasonable in the light of Barclays service failure.
Having looked  at Ms S bank statements I can see that in the months following her account  
being put under review she regularly withdrew  money from it by a combination of transfer to 
another account and in cash.
Ms S therefore appears to have  been able to make use of her money,  albeit with some delay in 
doing so because she first had to visit a branch to access it. And branch visits caused her 
considerable inconvenience  during her working  week, and this situation continued over many 
months.
But Ms S has also pointed to other far reaching  consequences of Barclays  actions on her 
health, relationships and financial situation. To enable  us to properly to assess  the extent to 
which Barclays could be held responsible for these consequences we asked Ms S to provide 
us with any additional supporting documentation she had. In particular we asked for County 
Court Judgement papers, rent arrears letters and/or eviction notices, correspondence  from a 
GP or counsellor and copies of her credit file.
Ms S has only been able to supply us with some summary pages from her credit  report,  
which contain limited  information. These do indeed confirm the existence of a CCJ from 
June 2018 and three accounts noted  as in default, but Ms S has provided  no more  details  on 
any of them.  In the absence of such detail  Im afraid it isnt possible for me to establish  with 
any confidence the extent to which they have resulted in whole or in part from the length of 
time it took Barclays to review Ms S account.
Unfortunately for Ms S I can only make  my award  on the basis  of the information  I have. And 
having looked at what happened  here,  and whilst I find that Barclays customer  service has 
been very poor indeed, I consider £1,200  to be fair and reasonable compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  Plc should  pay Ms S £1,200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0685145