K820x#14complaint
Ms Zs complaint is about the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited under a 
home emergency insurance policy. 
background
In June 2018, Ms Z made a claim under her policy with British  Gas when a toilet in her home  
was continuously  filling. I understand  it took four visits between June and August 2018, 
before the problem  with an overflow  pipe,  was resolved. However,  some  time later,  Ms Z 
then noticed her water bills had increased and following investigation it was found that it was 
because all three of the toilets in her home  were  overflowing, including  the one repaired by 
British Gas. 
Ms Z contacted British Gas again in February  2019  to ask it to come back  out. It took a 
further three visits before the problem was finally resolved on 20 February 2019. 
Ms Z is very unhappy with the service provided  and the time taken to fix the problem. She 
says she had to take unpaid  leave  from work  to attend appointments; one of British  Gass 
engineers was rude and aggressive, he was swearing  loudly  while doing the work and swore 
at her cat, this was intimidating and scary; she had to make a large  number of phone calls 
(over 30 in total) to British Gas, which often resulted in long holding times, being  cut off and 
transferred between departments. Ms Z also said that one of the contractors took her 
daughters towel.
Ms Z asked for a refund of the insurance  premiums paid between August 2018 and
February 2019; £180.29 to cover the 10 unpaid hours she took off work;  £10 for the towel,  
and £165 to cover her telephone charges.
British Gas acknowledged that there had been  a number of visits and some aspects of the 
claim could  have been dealt with better but it says its contractors carried  out appropriate and 
reasonable repairs each time. It said it had fed back about the behaviour of one of the 
plumbers that attended and appropriate action taken but the allegation about the removal of 
a towel would have  to be dealt with by the police. 
British Gas also paid a total of £384 compensation to Ms Z (made up of £54 as a refund of 
three months premiums,  refund of one policy excess of £60 and £270  for the delays and its 
plumbers behaviour. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt recommend that it be upheld.  She 
acknowledged there had been considerable inconvenience caused  to Ms Z by the handling 
of the claim; it had taken too long with too many  visits and she had had to call British Gas 
numerous times, however, the investigator  thought the amount already paid by British  Gas 
was reasonable  as compensation  for the trouble caused to Ms Z from June 2018 to 20 
February 2019, when  the toilets were properly fixed. 
Ms Z doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment,  so the matter has been passed to me. 
Ms Z says that the investigator  hasnt read the complaint properly and made errors of fact.  
Ref: DRN06610852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not seen any reason why it took so many visits to resolve the problem with the first 
toilet in 2018.  It seems to have been a relatively simple issue.  Similarly with the issues  that 
came to light in February 2019. It seems to me that perhaps two, possibly three  visits would 
have been more reasonable. This will therefore  have  caused trouble and inconvenience to 
Ms Z, including having to attend appointments and having to call British Gas. I also note 
what she has said about the behaviour of one of the plumbers in particular, which seems to 
not be disputed  by British Gas. This was clearly  not acceptable. This could all have been  
avoided, had appropriate repairs been carried out initially.  
In a case such as this, I would look at a global award of compensation to take account of all 
that has happened since the claim started  in 2018, to include  among  other  things, having to 
attend more appointments than should have been necessary; the number of phone calls 
required; as well the possible loss of a towel, which the plumber might  well have used to 
stem a leak while  fitting a part. 
Ms Z has also said that she had to take unpaid leave for two of the visits, although one of 
which was apparently for the first appointment which would always  have been required.  Ms 
Z has provided evidence of her annual salary but no convincing proof that she lost pay as a 
direct result of one of the additional appointments that could have been  avoided. I dont 
therefore consider  that British Gas can be required to  pay  any loss of earnings.  
Having considered all the circumstances, I consider that the compensation already provided 
by British Gas is reasonable and in line with awards made in similar scenarios. I do not 
therefore consider  that British Gas needs to do any more in this instance. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  as I consider British Gas Insurance Limited has already made  
an offer in full and final settlement, which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0661085