K821x#15complaint
E complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc acted unfairly in relation to two business 
loans. It says that NatWest initially set them  up wrongly, with interest rolled up instead  of 
paid monthly. E also says the bank acted  unfairly in declaring E in default, charging  default 
interest and ultimately  appointing Law of Property Act ("LPA") receivers.
E is represented by the company secretary, Mr W.
background
In 2007, E, a property developer, took out two 25 year Flexible Business Loans with 
NatWest for a total sum of around  £417,000. The loans each had a three year repayment 
holiday at the start and were secured on property. Interest was payable  at 1.5% above the 
Bank of England  base rate.
For three years, interest was rolled up, until in March 2010, the first capital repayment fell 
due on one of the loans.  Es current account didnt have enough money in to cover  it. 
NatWest wrote to E. Es representative complained  that the bank hadnt let him know the 
payment would be coming out of Es account.
NatWest then realised that both loans had been set up incorrectly. Interest for the past three  
years should  have been debited to Es current account rather  than rolled up. NatWest  
transferred E to its Specialised Relationship Management ("SRM") unit.
E and NatWest agreed that the interest added  to the loans would be left there and Es 
repayments adjusted  upwards to ensure the loans were still repaid by the original end date. 
E brought  the loans  up-to-date. At the same  time,  NatWest decided to enforce  a clause in 
the loans requiring all rental income  on the properties charged to the bank to be paid direct 
into Es NatWest current account.
E says it complied with this request, but NatWest disagreed. In November 2010, the bank 
wrote to E declaring an event of default.
E says it stopped  paying in its rent, since it said the bank didnt believe it was complying 
anyway, but it carried  on making repayments.  In March 2011,  the bank made a formal  
demand for repayment.  At around this point, the bank increased the interest rate on both 
loans to 3.5% over base  rate, its default rate.
In December 2011, the bank appointed  a valuer  to value  its security. E complained that this 
valuer intimidated its tenants.
In January 2012, the banks lawyers  wrote to E. Their letter  referred to the loans becoming 
immediately payable following the March 2011 formal demand.  But they recognised  that E 
continued to pay its monthly instalments. In view of this, they said that NatWest was willing 
to continue to accept these and refrain from enforcement action for 12 months, provided E 
produced a written  settlement proposal  within the year.
E rejected this suggestion,  disputed the balances quoted and continued to seek 
reinstatement of the 2007 loan agreements.
Ref: DRN08181292Between December  2012 and April 2014, E didnt make any payments to either loan. In 
2014, E proposed to the banks lawyers that the bank set the loan balances at a certain level 
and agree to accept  a fixed monthly repayment. The bank  agreed  to Es proposal and E paid 
in the agreed  amount from May 2014 to July 2014.
To document the agreement, NatWests lawyers  asked  E to sign a "consent order", a legal 
document varying the terms of the loan. One of the changes was to make the debt 
reviewable every 12 months. E declined to sign this order, as it wanted  NatWest to agree  to 
reinstate the original  loan agreements.
E missed instalments in August 2014  and October 2014, then ceased to make any payments  
into NatWest after 8 December 2014. Mr W, on behalf of E, says this is because  the bank 
was threatening  to appoint receivers. Mr W considers it would have been unreasonable to 
expect E to pay in money that would be lost under a forced sale.
In April 2016, the bank appointed Law of Property Act ("LPA") receivers over the properties 
charged to the bank.  They remain in place. In December 2019, the receivers put Es 
properties up for auction. But the bank agreed  not to proceed with this pending  my decision.  
E has complained to NatWest several  times,  referring the latest complaint to our service in 
2017. When one of our investigators first started looking into things, it initially  took some time 
to establish whether we had the power  to investigate.  But in early  2019, both sides accepted 
that we did have the power to look into the following complaint points:
NatWest rolled up interest  instead  of charging it to Es current  account for the first 
three years.
The bank  declared an event of default,  then put up the interest  rate.
NatWest unfairly departed from the 2007  loan agreements, which should be binding.
The bank  unfairly appointed LPA receivers.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 November 2019.  I provisionally upheld the complaint in 
part and said I intended to direct NatWest to rework  the business loans as though  the default 
had not occurred until 1 January 2015. I said the bank should also repay  any penalty fees 
charged up until 31 December 2014 and pay an additional £500 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this decision. 
NatWest didnt make any further comments in reply to my provisional decision.  
Es representative replied  and made  the following points, in summary:
Es complaint followed NatWest  appointing  property receivers.  These receivers  
obstructed Es ability  to trade its way to repaying its borrowing. 
Had the bank  not appointed receivers, a sale would have been  achieved and the 
debt repaid in 2016. 
Mr W said that, in my provisional decision, I had concluded that all events since  2007 
were of the banks  making. His view was that all events had compounded from 2010  
onwards. 
It was unfair of the bank to pursue early repayment from a compliant  and capable  
borrower entitled to a 25 year mortgage. The pursuit was ill-founded and poorly 
managed during  an inactive economy incapable of producing a viable solution.
Ref: DRN08181293The bank  had never attempted to meet with representatives of E to understand its 
position or assist  it. 
Id suggested  that E had failed to service the loans in January 2015. That was four 
years after the bank had claimed E was in default. 
Mr W said hed been studying the law in 2019.  Hed found that land charges alone 
didnt grant the holder the power of sale. 
The bank  had never complied with section  10.3 of the Law of Property Act, which  
was necessary to gain the power to appoint receivers.  
I had deemed the demands for payment  pre-2015 to be invalid. No demand since  
then had been received. 
Furthermore, the bank  didnt  have valid land charges. Mr W considered  the bank was 
therefore unable  to achieve  power of sale under section 10.3. 
Mr W on behalf of E asked me to uphold the complaint in full and instruct  NatWest  to 
remove the receivers immediately. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr W, but I havent been persuaded to change  my provisional view.  So Im going to uphold 
this complaint in part. But Im not going  to direct the bank to remove the receivers. Ill explain 
why and address  Mr Ws points below. 
In my provisional decision,  I found that the bank had made several errors early on in the 
lending. It set up the loans wrongly  with interest  rolling up instead of being paid from the 
current account. I think it then acted unreasonably in invoking clause  12 (g), requiring the 
rent to be mandated to Es current account.  And it was wrong to conclude  E hadnt complied 
and declare a default as a result. NatWest didnt dispute any of my provisional findings  and 
there is no new evidence.  So I havent changed  my view on this. 
Mr W has made several arguments based  on his recent study of the law. This has led him to 
believe that the banks appointment of LPA receivers was unlawful.  It may be worth  me 
explaining at this point, that the ombudsmans role, as an alternative dispute resolution 
service, is different from that of a court. Whilst I need to take into account  relevant  law and 
legislation, I am not limited to the position a court would take. Rather,  my role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. In this particular instance, 
that means deciding whether it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to have appointed 
receivers. 
When NatWest lent E the money in the first place, it was secured by taking charges over Es 
properties. I havent seen the legal documentation.  But in my view, Es representatives  
would have understood and accepted  that these charges meant that the bank would take 
control of the property  if the loans werent repaid. 
Mr W says the bank  was wrong  to declare  an event  of default when it did. I agree. But as I 
said in my provisional decision, I think the bank could fairly and reasonably have declared a 
default at a later point   specifically from January 2015 onwards. I say this because by then, 
there had been  a prolonged period  where E hadnt  made any repayments (all of 2013  and 
early 2014), followed by some patchy payments in 2014, when it looked like a new 
agreement might be reached.  By December 2014, E had ceased all together  to make  any 
payments into the loans.  
Ref: DRN08181294Mr W argues that it was unfair of the bank to pursue early repayment from a compliant and 
capable borrower  entitled to a 25 year mortgage. But from 2013 onwards, E was no longer 
consistently compliant.  So I think it was reasonable for the bank to be concerned about its 
lending and to take steps to protect its position.  
One of Mr Ws arguments, as I understand it, is that because NatWest shouldnt  have 
declared E in default in November 2010,  there  is no valid default.  So the bank didnt have 
the power to appoint  the LPA receivers. 
But my view is that, regardless  of whether the bank actually issued a valid notice of default,  
one could have  been issued. By April 2016,  the relationship between bank and customer 
had effectively broken  down  and Mr W had withdrawn any form of co-operation. And I think  
the various communications between the parties  made it clear  that, despite  some attempts, 
no new agreement was going to be reached. Given these circumstances, the bank 
concluded it had exhausted other options.  I dont think I can reasonably conclude that it was 
unfair for the bank to take control  of its security at this point. 
I know that Mr W has said that the bank never attempted to meet with representatives of E 
and understand  their business. But Im not persuaded this is fair. The banks notes  record  
several instances in 2011 where  its relationship manager was seeking a meeting and Mr W 
didnt agree. I see no reason to disbelieve this record.  And I havent  seen any evidence of 
Mr W seeking a meeting at any point.  However  unreasonable Mr W may feel the banks 
behaviour has been,  the evidence suggests there was unwillingness  to engage on Es side 
too. 
Mr W says that, in my provisional decision, I had concluded that all events  since 2007 were  
of the banks making. I know Mr W believes this to be true, but that isnt what I said. I say 
this because I dont  think stopping making  any repayments was of the banks  making. I think 
it was a decision Mr W took. And as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think ceasing  to 
pay was a reasonable or proportionate  response, notwithstanding the banks mentions of 
appointing receivers.   
Where I decide a bank  has done  something wrong,  the next thing I need to consider is what  
would be fair to put things right. I know that Mr W thinks this should  take the form of 
removing the receivers and unwinding everything back  to the original loan agreement. But I 
need to consider whether  the complainant could or should have done  anything to mitigate 
their loss. 
In this case, my finding remains that by stopping paying any money in to its loans, E failed to 
mitigate its loss. In fact, its actions  effectively made the appointment of the receivers 
inevitable. After all, although the bank had mentioned its right to appoint receivers several  
times, it hadnt taken  any steps actually to appoint  them while  some  repayments were being  
made. 
I understand Mr Ws frustration with the receivers, who he feels  have paralysed progress for 
many years, preventing the sale he is confident  he would otherwise have achieved  to clear 
Es debts.  But I dont have  any power  to consider their actions, as they are outside my 
jurisdiction. 
Ref: DRN08181295fair compensation
Neither the bank  nor Es representative have made any further  points about  my proposed 
compensation (except that Mr W would like me to do much more of course). I havent  
changed my provisional  thinking here.  
I still think that the positive impact  on Es cashflows gained from not paying any interest  for 
three years broadly cancels out the negative impact  of paying interest on interest. So Im not 
going to award  anything  further for this element.  
I think its fair to treat the loans as in default in default from January 2015, following Es 
complete cessation  of repayments. So Im going  to require RBS to rework the loans as if the 
default had occurred then.  
Finally, I also think its fair to award  E some  compensation for the inconvenience caused  by 
the banks aggressive  stance  in 2010.  E had to arrange for the rent to be paid in to the 
account rather than just the required repayment amount. And in general, even though it was 
servicing the loans,  E had to spend time dealing with the banks demands rather  than getting  
on with its property business. Im awarding an additional £500  for this.
In summary,  NatWest must:
Rework the loans as though they had remained on the original interest  rate until 
31 December 2014. This calculation should  take into account the loan repayments 
made against the adjusted amount due. 
Refund all penalty fees charged  to E up until 31 December  2014, for example, 
demand fees, fees for lawyers letters.
Pay E an additional £500  for the inconvenience  caused by the banks errors. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay 
compensation as set out above  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W on behalf of 
E to accept  or reject  my decision before 4 March 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN08181296Extract from Provisional Decision dated 6 November  2019
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
did NatWest act reasonably in 2010?
Unfortunately, it seems to me that the relationship  between  E and the bank got off on the wrong foot 
from the moment the first repayment  came  out of Es current account  and was returned unpaid.  Both 
sides felt the other was at fault for this. This problem  was, as far as I can see, corrected fairly  swiftly  
and the loan brought  back into order. But it seems to have set the tone for the increasingly troubled 
relationship that followed.
I dont think theres any dispute that NatWest  set up the loans wrongly. Ive seen the documentation 
for one of the two loans.  Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the other loan followed the same 
format. The agreement made it clear that during  the initial  three year repayment holiday,  interest was 
to be charged  to Es current account This would have the effect that the loan balances  would remain 
at the same level, until capital  repayments began in 2010.
In fact, interest wasnt debited to the current account. So the balance of the loans rose steadily  for 
three years and E was charged interest on interest. NatWest has no record of any contact with E 
during this three year period.  Mr W says that NatWests representative informed him in 2007 that 
interest would  roll up and after that, E heard nothing more. Regardless of whether the interest roll up 
was an oversight or a deliberate decision  by a relationship manager, I think this was an error by the 
bank, since it breached the agreed terms of the loans.
When the roll-up  was uncovered in 2010, the bank proposed to adjust Es monthly repayments 
upwards so that the increased loan balances  were still repaid  over the intended 25 year term. E 
accepted this and began making repayments.
When the bank wrote to E about adjusting  the repayments, NatWest also informed the company that 
it was now insisting on the implementation of clause  12 (g) in each loan. This clause  said that if the 
bank required it, then rental income must be mandated into the current  account  from which  the loans 
were serviced.
Mr W says that NatWests  relationship manager also wanted to renegotiate the loan and double the 
interest rate at this point. I havent seen  any written  evidence of this, or record of it in the banks files. 
But I think its fair to say that NatWests attitude to this type of lending had become  far less 
enthusiastic over the three year period,  which  spanned the financial crisis. I think  this is shown by 
NatWests letter to E, which, after an introductory paragraph, began: 
"Strategy
 Sector strategy - cautious
 File strategy- cautious (objective is to obtain repayment within current terms of the loan and if any 
repayments are missed, then the bank will look to seek  recourse to the assets charged as 
security to repay the business liabilities)."
I cant  see that NatWest  had any real reason  to mention  recourse to assets or to invoke the rent 
clause at this time. There was an initial blip with repayments, but E seems to have quickly  corrected 
this and I think its clear that this was caused  by other factors, not by any reluctance or inability  to pay. 
I dont think E had given any indication  that it was in difficulty.  Whilst  I accept that the loan agreement  
said the bank had the right to invoke clause  12(g) at any time, Im minded to think  that NatWest 
adopted an unnecessary stance at this point, at a time when E had given no cause for concern.
Ref: DRN08181297Next, Ive looked at whether  E made  reasonable efforts to comply  with clause 12 (g). And I think  it did. 
I think  its important to note here that the majority of the income in question was coming  from another 
limited company linked to E, of which  Mr W was also the company secretary. So Mr W was going to 
be paying in the funds to service the loan whatever happened, not an independent third party. Im not 
sure that the bank understood this as it seemed to expect automated payments to start appearing 
from elsewhere. Mr W has told us that the bank had never asked  for a copy  of its rent roll (and 
certainly NatWests  internal  records make no mention of having seen one).
Ive looked carefully at the bank statements and Im satisfied that once  NatWest invoked the rental 
income clause, E acted in good  faith to pay in all the relevant rent (there  was an amount from another 
tenant that wasnt paid in. E says this was because that tenant  had already  paid annually in advance. 
I havent seen evidence of this, but I find it plausible). NatWest quickly arrived  at the conclusion that E 
hadnt complied with the clause. For the reasons set out above,  I dont think that was fair.
To summarise so far, I think  NatWest acted unreasonably in invoking clause 12 (g) when it did. Its my 
view that E complied with 12 (g). And I think NatWest was wrong  to conclude E hadnt  complied. It 
follows that I dont think it was reasonable for the bank to send  a warning letter in October 2009, or 
declare E in default in November  or to start charging  default interest.
did NatWest act fairly in 2015 and 2016?
It seems to me that E and NatWest continued to be at something of a stand-off for two years  after the 
bank declared E in default. E continued to provide enough funds  to service  the loans, whilst 
repeatedly arguing that the 2007 terms still applied and the balance outstanding should therefore  be 
lower. NatWest on the other hand, continued to say that the loans were in default  and repayable on 
demand. The bank appointed some lawyers, but deferred  any other action whilst repayments were 
being made.
I note that there  was a period in 2014 where it looks like both sides were close  to an agreement. E 
had proposed  to the banks lawyers that the bank  set the loan balances at a certain level (around 
£44,000 below their balances according to the bank  at this point because E was seeking to remove 
the accrued penalty interest) and agree  to accept a fixed monthly repayment. The lawyers confirmed  
the banks agreement to this proposal  but wanted  a consent order to document  it, which E declined to 
sign.
Mr W says he stopped making repayments once and for all in December 2014 because he became 
convinced that the bank was about to appoint receivers. Mr W considered this would jeopardise  Es 
equity. So he argues  it would have been foolish to pay any further money in at that stage.
I understand Mr Ws position. But Im not persuaded  that Es action in ceasing to make  any further 
payments was reasonable. The bank had mentioned  its right to appoint  receivers several  times since 
2011. But it hadnt actually taken any steps towards doing this. So it seems to me that by stopping 
meeting repayments, E made  the appointment of LPA receivers inevitable.
Given that Mr W had withdrawn any form of co-operation or funding  at this point, I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude that the bank acted unfairly  when it finally appointed LPA receivers in April 2016. 
Thered been no repayments  for over a year and only patchy instalments  for some years before this. 
So I think it had exhausted  other options at this stage. Its lawyers had even agreed to accept  an offer 
from E in 2014, but Mr W had declined  to respond to their letters.
I have some sympathy with Mr W. He feels  everything flows  from NatWests  error  in declaring a 
default in 2010. But I need  to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I dont  think it 
was reasonable or proportionate for E to stop repaying  the loans. And I think by doing so, E gave 
NatWest little choice.
Ref: DRN08181298If I decide a bank has done  something  wrong (as I have here), the next thing I need to consider is 
what would be fair to put things right. I know that Mr W thinks this should  take the form of removing  
the receivers  and unwinding  everything back to the original loan agreement. But in deciding this, I 
need to take into account whether the complainant  could or should  have done anything to mitigate 
their loss. In this case, my finding is that by stopping paying any money  in to its loans,  E failed to 
mitigate his loss.
Ref: DRN0818129