K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
alongside a mortgage.
background
In late 1999, Mrs C applied for a mortgage. At the same time, Bank of Scotland  sold Mrs C a 
PPI policy. In February 2002, Bank  of Scotland transferred the cover to Mr C. Mr and Mrs C 
think the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C 
didnt agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive first considered whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs C a choice to buy PPI. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us that when they first applied for the mortgage  they were  buying 
their first property. They wanted the house so took the path of least resistance and agreed 
to the insurance   it was sold as a deal breaker as part of the mortgage. And they say they 
were told it was mandatory. So Ive thought about  this alongside  the other information I have 
about the sale.
Bank of Scotland has sent us the application  for the mortgage. I see this included a separate 
section headed  Accident, sickness and unemployment insurance. Mrs C needed  to sign a 
box headed Yes,  I would  like to take advantage of mortgage repayments insurance. This 
box has been signed and dated.  Mrs C has also signed a separate PPI application form. I 
also note that Mrs C was also offered buildings and contents insurance   but didnt apply  for 
this. And the paperwork shows  that that Mr and Mrs C declined further advice on their 
mortgage repayment options. So based  on what Ive seen, I think  its most  likely that 
Mr and Mrs C knew they had a choice  and chose  to buy the PPI. As such, I also think  
theyd have known  it was optional when they transferred cover from Mrs C to Mr C in 2002.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  these policies. So it had to check it was right for 
Mr and Mrs C. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances, I think  it was. Mrs C doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover. I appreciate  
that Mrs C thinks  her sick pay means  that the policy wouldnt  have covered her. But this 
policy would pay benefits in addition to any sick pay she received. And the PPI protected  a 
mortgage  their home was at risk if they couldnt make  the repayments   so I think  the 
cover could have been  useful if shed  needed to claim.  Similarly, Mr C doesnt appear  to 
have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations of the cover either  and the policy  
seems to have been right for him.
Ref: DRN00638772Though I can see that the information Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr and Mrs C could have been 
clearer, I dont think this would have put them off deciding to buy the PPI. And I see the 
original application  form set out the amount that the policy would  pay in the event of a claim 
together with how much  the policy cost.
In all the circumstances, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0063877