K821x#15complaint
Ms S says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms S took out a PPI policy  with a store card in 2003. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint.  To keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ss case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Ms S complaint. Ill explain why. 
FICL had to make Ms S aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding the 
policy to her card. FICL hasnt been able to provide sufficient evidence  that it gave Ms S a 
choice in taking  the policy or that she chose  to have it.
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including that the sale of the PPI would have been 
made clear to Ms S at the time she took out her card. But as Ive explained above it hasnt 
been able to provide enough  evidence to support this. So I still think I should uphold the 
complaint.
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Ms S in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
Pay Ms S the amount  she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms S a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN09185432my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0918543