K821x#15complaint
Mrs Y complains about how long MoneyGram International Limited took to refund her 
money.
background
Mrs Y tried to make a transfer of £3,000 using MoneyGram on 26 February  2018.  But she 
noticed on the receipt that the form had been completed incorrectly and says she was told 
she would  receive  a refund within seven to ten days. Mrs Y says she didnt receive her 
refund and tried to make contact with MoneyGram about it. She says she received her 
money back on 25 July 2018 with a loss of interest and gesture of goodwill payment  of 
£107.22.
Money Gram accepts there  was an error  and apologised and paid Mrs Y £107.22.
Mrs Y brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator didnt think the compensation paid 
was fair and reasonable and thought Money  Gram should pay a further £300 to Mrs Y. The 
adjudicator thought that Money  Gram should have paid for the loss of interest in any event 
and so the compensation was £7.13  and not enough. He thought Mrs Y was without her 
money for a significant period of time and had tried to send the money for a property 
purchase.
Money Gram doesnt accept that view and says Mrs Y should have checked the details 
when the transfer was made. It accepts there was a delay  but says it wasnt responsible for 
all of it as there were difficulties due to the method Mrs Y paid for the transfer. It also says it 
doesnt have a record of Mrs Y trying to contact it as many times  as she says but would 
increase its offer of compensation to £100.
Mrs Y has accepted the adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for largely  the same reasons.
I dont think it matters  who made the mistake initially and Ive not seen  the original 
documents from the transaction.  But Im satisfied that Mrs Y should  have received her 
money back far sooner than she did. And I accept that this was a significant amount of 
money and that she would have been worried about  where it was and if she would even get 
it back. For those reasons  Im satisfied Money Grams offer of compensation doesnt go far 
enough.
I make  it clear  to the parties that Im not awarding compensation about the possible loss of 
the property purchase  but only about  the delay of the return  of Mrs Ys money  and the effect 
that delay had on her.
I appreciate Money  Gram paid Mrs Y £107.22. But I agree  with the adjudicator that the 
compensation part of that was £7.13  and the loss of interest payment, which I think Money 
Gram should be responsible for, was for the remainder. Im satisfied that Mrs Y was without  
her money for a significant period of time and far longer than Money  Gram says it takes  to 
Ref: DRN02771712process refunds.  I have  no doubt  that during that time Mrs Y would have spent some time 
trying to call Money Gram about the problem and I also accept she would have been 
concerned about  where her money  was.
So overall I think Money Gram should  pay more than the £7.13  compensation. I appreciate 
that its now increased that offer to £100.  But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think that 
reflects the level of distress Mrs Y was caused and how long it took for her money to be 
returned.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Money Gram International Limited 
to pay Mrs Y further compensation of £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0277171