K821x#15complaint
Miss F says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  findings  on this complaint on 9 April 2020. A copy is 
attached and it forms part of this final decision.  I explained why I intended to uphold this 
complaint and asked  both parties  for their comments.
Miss F said she was happy  with my proposed outcome. Sunny didnt respond.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. So 
my final decision is the same as my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
putting things right
Sunny must refund all the interest and charges Miss F paid, adding  interest  at 8% simple  per 
year, from when Miss F paid the interest  and charges, until the date of settlement. Sunny 
must also remove any adverse information it has recorded about this facility  from Miss Fs 
credit history.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss F a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited must  put things right by taking  the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN09215172COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss F says Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading  as Sunny) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss F had a running  account credit facility with Sunny, with a limit of £500.  The facility allowed Miss F 
to make drawdowns up to her limit and repay them in instalments. Miss F made five drawdowns from 
her facility. Ive summarised some of the information Sunny provided  about the drawdowns  below.
Drawdown 
date AmountRunning  
balance*Min. 
repayment*
10/11/2013 £200 £200 £71.17
13/11/2013 £250 £450 £158.41
02/12/2013 £150 £520.64 £195.44
27/12/2013 £69.07 £500 £200.07
24/01/2014 £57.09 £500 £200.33
*at the point funds were deposited.
Two adjudicators looked  at Miss Fs complaint.  The most recent adjudicator to look at it didnt think  
the complaint should be upheld.  Miss F didnt agree with the second adjudicators  view. She thought  
her history of borrowing from other lenders and the pattern of drawdowns  in December 2013 and 
January 2014 ought to have  caused Sunny to conclude she was in financial difficulty.
As there  was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Miss F could repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
It seems Sunny obtained some information from Miss F about her income before deciding to lend to 
her. It has recorded her income  as £1,250 per month. I have  not seen  from the information Sunny has 
provided that it obtained  any information about  Miss Fs expenditure.
Sunny also says it carried out a credit history check for Miss F  although it hasnt provided the results 
of this.
Given the lack of information, I cant be sure about what Sunny knew about  Miss Fs expenditure 
before it approved the loan. But I have seen a copy  of a credit report provided by Miss F and I think 
its likely,  as Sunny  carried out a credit check, that it wouldve  been aware  of at least  some of the 
information Ive seen  on this.
I can see that Miss F had a mortgage with a high street bank with a monthly  payment of £583, a loan 
from the same high street bank with a monthly payment of £306 and another  long-term  loan with a 
monthly payment of £93. These three credit commitments alone come to a total of £982 per month  
Ref: DRN09215173which would leave Miss F with £268 a month to meet  all her other living costs (food,  council  tax, 
utilities etc.) as well as her payments to Sunny,  which as demonstrated in the table above, could have 
a potential minimum repayment of up to about £200.
Bearing in mind  Miss Fs existing credit commitments  (and the above-mentioned commitments are not 
an exhaustive list of what  Ive seen  on Miss Fs credit report) I cant  see how the facility  Sunny 
approved was affordable  for her. Im therefore planning  to uphold  Miss Fs complaint  about Sunnys 
decision to approve this facility.
 
putting things  right
I plan to tell Sunny  to refund  all the interest and charges Miss F paid, adding  interest at 8% simple per 
year, from when Miss F paid the interest and charges,  until the date of settlement. I also plan to tell 
Sunny to remove any adverse information  it recorded about this facility.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss F a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I plan to uphold Miss Fs complaint and to tell Elevate Credit International Limited  to put things right by 
taking the steps set out above.
Ref: DRN0921517