K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ws complained  that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt tell her about a motor  insurance claim 
made against her policy. 
background
In 2016 Mrs W reversed  slowly into another car. She said she couldnt see any damage but 
swapped details with the other driver. She called AXA to inform it but said she didnt know  if 
the other driver was going to claim.  A month later Mrs W said she received a letter  from the 
other drivers  insurer  saying she needed  to let her insurer (AXA) know  about the accident. 
Mrs W contacted  AXA and said it told her it hadnt heard anything from the other insurer and 
if it did it would let her know.
In 2018 Mrs W was taking  out a new policy with a different insurer. She said that insurer  
avoided her policy as she hadnt told it about claims with AXA.  Mrs W said AXA hadnt  told 
her about  the claim and she would have declared  it to her new insurer if AXA had kept her 
updated. She also said another windscreen claim had incorrectly been recorded as a non-
fault claim.
Mrs W complained  to AXA. AXA agreed  it had wrongly recorded the windscreen claim and 
amended the details.  It said it could have let her know  the settlement  details  for the second  
claim where shed rolled back into the other  car sooner and sent her £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. But it thought  it had followed the correct process in relation to that claim. Mrs W 
remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. She said she didnt know  there had 
been a claim and was also unhappy with the amount AXA had paid to settle the claim  
because she hadnt seen any damage on the other  car.
AXA said it had done its best to keep  the other drivers claim as low as possible but was 
satisfied the damage  was consistent with the accident. It said it could have let her know  the 
outcome of the claim earlier  but Mrs W had known there was a claim as she reported it. And 
it said it also provided details of the claim once her policy had lapsed.
Our investigator was satisfied AXA had done  enough to let Mrs W know  about the claim so 
she didnt ask AXA to do anything differently. Mrs W didnt agree. She said she didnt have 
any recollection of receiving the letter  once  her policy had lapsed. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
In this decision I can only consider what AXA - and not the new insurer - might or might  not 
have done wrong.  Mrs W has also complained  about her new insurer avoiding  her policy and 
thats been dealt with in a separate decision.  
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ws policy allow it to take over and defend  or settle  any 
claims made  against her. That might mean AXA makes a decision she disagrees with but 
the policy allows it to do so. I look to see that its done so fairly and reasonably.  
Ref: DRN09423542I havent seen  the letter  the other  drivers insurer sent to Mrs W so I dont know whether it 
said the other driver  was making a claim.  But Ive listened to calls where Mrs W reported  the 
incident to AXA. In the first call Mrs W said she didnt know  if any claim would be made but 
wanted to let AXA know about  it. 
Following that call AXA emailed Mrs W. In that email it said it would be holding Mrs W 
responsible for the incident and so it would have to deal with any claim the other  driver  made  
against her policy. 
Ive also listened  to the call Mrs W made  to AXA after the other  drivers insurer  sent her a 
letter asking her to notify her insurer. AXA said Ill get in touch with them [the other drivers 
insurer] just to let them  know  youve reported the incident so they just can continue to liaise  
with us directly.  I appreciate Mrs W recalls being  told AXA would keep her informed  if a 
claim was made, but havent heard anything in that call to suggest AXA was going  to contact 
her again  if there was a claim. 
AXA has also provided a copy  of Mrs Ws no claims discount (NCD) which  includes details of 
three claims  on her policy. This includes  the claim in May 2016 which  is shown as a fault  
claim and includes the amount  paid out. I can see it sent Mrs W this letter  on 5 December 
2017 which was before Mrs W bought her policy with the new insurer. I appreciate Mrs W 
doesnt remember receiving this letter but I can see it was sent to Mrs Ws address. So Im 
satisfied its most likely AXA sent it.
I agree  AXA could have done  more to let Mrs W know  how it had settled her claim sooner. 
But overall Im satisfied it provided the information she needed  before  she bought her new 
policy. And I dont think it said it would contact her again if a claim was received. So Im not 
persuaded it was AXAs  fault that Mrs W didnt declare her claim to her new insurer. And I 
think £100 is enough to compensate for her distress and inconvenience  for not being  given 
the information sooner. 
I understand Mrs Ws concerns amount the amount AXA paid to settle her claim given that 
she didnt think there  was any damage. But I can see AXA requested invoices for the repairs  
and I dont find the amount it paid unusual for repairs to the bumper. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs W was hoping for but Im satisfied £100 is enough to 
compensate for AXA not keeping Mrs W up to date sooner. And Im not going to ask it to pay 
any more. 
my final decision
I understand AXA Insurance UK Plc has offered Mrs W £100 compensation. I conclude  this 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  So my final decision is that AXA Insurance  
UK Plc should  pay Mrs W £100  to compensate for her distress and inconvenience  if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
 Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN0942354