K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the amount  of compensation offered to them  by 
Loans.co.uk Ltd following a complaint they made about payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
I issued a provisional decision in June  2018  to explain why I thought  Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider  anything  else anyone  wanted to give 
me.
This is an extract  from that provisional  decision:
Mr and Mrs L complained to Loans.co.uk  about the sale of a PPI policy attached  to a
mortgage taken  out in July 2004. In July 2017,  Loans.co.uk made Mr and Mrs L an offer 
to settle their complaint.
This offer was made up of £11,655  for the cost of the single premium added  to Mr and 
Mrs Ls mortgage and £5,385.58 in interest  charged  on this premium  whilst the 
mortgage was in place. Loans.co.uk  also added £9,138.20 in interest, at the rate of 8% 
per year simple, to compensate Mr and Mrs L for the time they were  out of pocket.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think Loans.co.uk  had done enough to put things right. They  said 
Mr L had previously had a claim under the policy declined and Loans.co.uk  should  now 
pay this claim.
Mr and Mrs L also said they had been  trying to make a complaint about the sale of their 
PPI for a number of years prior to their house  being  repossessed in 2013. And if 
Loans.co.uk had offered  them compensation when they first made this complaint, they 
wouldve been able to clear  the arrears on their mortgage and their house wouldnt have 
been repossessed. Mr and Mrs L want additional  compensation  for the distress this caused  
them. Loans.co.uk think the offer already made  to Mr and Mrs L is fair.
One of our adjudicators  looked at Loans.co.uks offer and thought it was fair. Mr and Mrs L
disagree, so the case has been  passed to me for a decision.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Loans.co.uk has already made Mr and Mrs L an offer to settle their complaint, Im not
going to look at how PPI came to be sold to them again here. In this decision Im only 
looking at whether Loans.co.uk has offered fair compensation - taking into account all of the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs L arent saying Loans.co.uk has offered the wrong amount to refund the costs 
of the PPI  they dont think they paid more than has been offered. But they dont think 
Loans.co.uk has offered  enough compensation given the impact a declined  claim had on 
their finances and for the way their complaint has been handled.
Having considered all of the circumstances, Ive decided Loans.co.uks offer is fair. 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN03712102Mr Ls declined claim
Mr L has told me he tried to make a claim for unemployment when he was laid off work  in
2008. This claim was unsuccessful because Mr L was self-employed.  Mr L thinks  now 
Loans.co.uk has admitted  that this policy was mis-sold, it should also pay out the claim 
that was previously declined. I have  some sympathy  with Mr L but I dont agree.
Some PPI policies made  it more difficult for self-employed people to make  a claim. And 
having looked at the terms and conditions  of this policy, I can see this is one of them.  So 
this means that the policy wasnt suitable  for Mr L and this is likely to be one of the reasons 
it was mis-sold. But Loans.co.uk have already offered the type of compensation I would 
expect them to make  in these circumstances  to offer Mr and Mrs L a full refund of the cost 
of their policy. Normally  a complaint about whether or not a claim was paid needs  to be 
made to the underwriter of the insurance  policy, not the business that sold the policy. And I 
wouldnt expect Loans.co.uk  to pay a previously declined claim if the terms and conditions 
of the policy, although unsuitable for Mr L, had been  correctly applied by the insurer.
And even  if I were  to ask Loans.co.uk to step into the shoes of the insurer  and pay the 
claim, I dont think  this would result in Mr and Mrs L receiving any further compensation. I 
say this because  Loans.co.uk would be entitled  to take into account any amount already 
paid to Mr and Mrs L in compensation. So if Mr and Mrs L had already received 
compensation amounting to more than they would be due for the claim, no further redress 
would be due. And I think this is the case here. In short, Mr and Mrs L cant  have 
compensation that puts them in the position theyd be in if they hadnt  been sold a PPI 
policy at all and, at the same time, have a claim paid out under the policy  they say they 
should never have  been  sold.
Mr L was off work for 9 or 10 months in 2008.  Had the claim paid out, it would have paid 
his mortgage payments  during this period.  Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage payments were 
£1,154.52 a month. So, in total, Mr L wouldve received a maximum benefit of around 
£11,545.20. Loans.co.uk would add 8% simple interest to this amount but it would still 
amount to significantly less than the compensation Mr and Mrs L have already received. 
So, at the moment, I wont be asking  Loans.co.uk  to do anything  further.
Impact of compensation not being  paid earlier
Mr and Mrs L have told me they tried to make  a mis-sale complaint on a number of 
occasions, over the course of a number of years, before they were successful. Theyve 
said they first asked if they could  claim back the cost of their PPI when they fell into 
financial difficulties and were consistently  told they didnt  have  PPI attached to their 
mortgage. Theyve said had their complaint  been looked into when they initially 
complained, compensation wouldve been paid sooner, and they wouldve  been able to 
clear their mortgage arrears and save their home.
Loans.co.uk doesnt agree. Theyve said they were first notified of Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint by the business that actually  loaned the money in May 2017. Theyve told me 
they then wrote to Mr and Mrs L for further  information which they received in June 2017. 
The complaint was upheld a couple of days  later.  Loans.co.uk has said it didnt inform 
Mr and Mrs L they didnt  have a PPI policy.
Ref: DRN03712103Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs L and Loans.co.uk have told me. And just 
because Loans.co.uk  doesnt have a record of a complaint before May 2017, doesnt  
necessarily mean Mr and Mrs L didnt try and make a complaint before then. Mr and 
Mrs L may well have  contacted the lender or the underwriter of the policy which  would 
mean Loans.co.uk wouldnt have a record of this.
So its possible that Mr and Mrs L tried to complain about their PPI policy between 2008  and
2013 (when their house was repossessed). But even if compensation had been paid 
much sooner  than it was, I dont think this wouldve stopped  Mr and Mrs L losing their 
home. Ill explain why.
Had Mr and Mrs L been paid compensation prior to 2017, their total offer wouldve been 
much lower  than it is now. This is because £9,138.20 of their offer is made up of interest 
(calculated at a rate of 8% simple) for the amount of time they have been out of pocket. 
And if compensation had been paid sooner,  Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have been out of pocket 
for so long and this amount would be significantly less. So Mr and Mrs Ls total offer 
wouldve been much  lower than the £24,351.14 they received in 2017.  I think  this is 
important because I dont  think  even this higher amount wouldve cleared the arrears on
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage.
Ive looked at the payments Mr and Mrs L made  to their mortgage  account between 
2004 and 2013. And it looks to me like they started to miss repayments (or pay reduced 
payments) from around  2009  and this pattern continued until July 2013.  So Mr and 
Mrs L were in substantial arrears by the time their home was repossessed and werent  
able to meet  their full repayments for some time. And I think these arrears wouldve  
amounted to significantly more than the compensation they wouldve been due.
So, had Mr and Mrs L received  compensation earlier than they did, the amount received 
wouldve been significantly  lower  than the £24,351.14 they received in 2017. And although 
any amount they received may have been used to reduce the arrears on their mortgage, I 
think it wouldve been some way off clearing the arrears altogether.  It looks  to me like 
Mr and Mrs L were  struggling financially and werent  meeting their monthly repayments over 
a number of years. So if theyd been  paid earlier, I still think  its likely they would have 
struggled to make all of their repayments.  So I dont think it would be fair for me to say 
Mr and Mrs L lost their home as a direct result of Loans.co.uk depriving them of money. And 
because of this, I dont  think  it would  be fair for me to ask them to pay further 
compensation.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loans.co.uk agreed with my provisional  decision and had nothing  further  to add. 
Mr and Mrs L contacted  us to say they arent happy with the provisional decision.  And they 
asked me to re-consider the following points:
Loans.co.uk isnt correct about them only making a complaint last year  they initially  
complained in 2011 and were told they didnt have  a PPI policy attached  to their 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN03712104If Loans.co.uk had admitted  they had PPI in 2011, and looked into their complaint 
properly, they couldve used  this compensation to save their home.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs and Mrs L have said but Ive come  to the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision. Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that Mr and Mrs L may well have tried to make a 
complaint about  the sale of their PPI policy prior to their successful complaint in 2017.  There  
is no record of a complaint before then but as I said, this doesnt necessarily mean that a 
complaint wasnt made. And I dont doubt what Mr and Mrs L have told me. But even if 
Mr and Mrs L had received compensation in 2011, I still dont think  this wouldve stopped 
their home from being re-possessed  in 2013.  Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at the level of arrears that accrued  on Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage between 2004  
and 2013. And Ive been provided  with Mr and Mrs Ls monthly  arrears  statements dated 
25 February 2011, 25 December 2011 and 25 March 2013. The accrued arrears on these 
dates are shown as follows:
25 February 2011  arrears amounting  to £10,647.29
25 December 2011  arrears amounting to £20,281.87
25 March 2013  arrears amounting to £34,480.89
Having looked  at these arrears statements, it appears to me that had Mr and Mrs L received 
compensation in December  2011  it may well have reset their arrears balance and reduced it 
to £0. Although, as I said in my provisional decision,  the offer wouldve been much lower  
than the £24,351.14  theyve been  offered now. 
But even if I were to assume that any compensation paid wouldve cleared Mr and Mrs Ls 
arrears as of December 2011, Mr and Mrs L continued  to miss their monthly mortgage 
repayments right up until their house was repossessed in 2013. Their arrears  statements 
show that arrears of £14,199.02 accrued after any potential compensation payment.
So, I agree  with Mr and Mrs L that a compensation payment in 2011 may well have brought  
them some time and may well have  reduced  their arrears balance. But arrears continued to 
accrue for a number  of years after this. So even  if compensation had been paid earlier, by 
2013, Mr and Mrs L wouldve still have  accrued  arrears of at least £14,000.
This level of arrears amounts to over 10 missed monthly mortgage repayments. Generally, 
lenders are entitled  to start repossession  proceedings once a consumer misses three 
monthly mortgage repayments. And by 2013,  Mr and Mrs L wouldve missed many  more 
than this - even if I were  to assume  their arrears wouldve been cleared in 2011. So I dont  
think a compensation  payment in 2011  couldve stopped their home  being  repossessed.  
Putting it simply, the accrued arrears on Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  were substantially higher  
than any potential compensation payment they were to receive. 
And to be able to recommend Mr and Mrs L receive further compensation, Id have to be 
satisfied that the single premium sold to them in 2004 was the direct cause of them losing 
their home in 2013. And I dont think  I can say that. Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
statements and it looks to me like they struggled to meet their monthly mortgage repayments  
from the outset. I think this was reason Mr and Mrs L lost their home, rather  than because  
they were mis-sold PPI in 2004. 
Ref: DRN03712105my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Loans.co.uk  Ltds offer is fair and I wont be asking 
Loans.co.uk Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0371210