K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
September 2003 alongside a credit  card.  Mr H bought the PPI when he applied for his credit  
card by post.  Mr H, who is represented  by a third party, says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)  
mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this. From  what  Ive seen I 
think Mr H made a decision  to take out the policy when he applied for the card by post. 
And as he was applying in his own time,  he was able to think  about  if he wanted  PPI 
before he decided to take it. Ive seen that on his application form he ticked a box to 
show he wanted to buy PPI. He could have  left the box blank if he didnt want the cover.  
 Although Mr H bought the PPI when he applied for his card by post, BoS says it will 
treat it as a recommended sale. That means  it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  not just that he was given enough information to make an informed choice about it. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong, given that  
it would  pay out in addition his existing  employer benefits - being between  3 and 6 
months - if he was unable to work.  The PPI would also pay out if he lost his job - and it 
would always be paid on top of his employer  benefits. So he wouldnt have to rely on 
other sources of funding to help out. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mr H back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS has paid this to Mr H. If not, BoS can now make  
arrangements to pay the offer sum to Mr H now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN07214352my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0721435