K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2002. Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr F in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs F, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  
 Ill explain why.
Because the sale was so long ago, neither  side have all the original  documents  from the 
time. But from what weve seen  of Halifaxs sales process for this type of policy,  it wouldve 
given Mr and Mrs F the choice to take or turn down  PPI, and only set it up if they actively 
chose it. And the cost of the policy wouldve been  set out separately to the cost of the 
mortgage  rather  than as something  that was necessarily  included. The PPI was not a 
condition for getting  the mortgage, and Ive not seen  any evidence  that shows it was 
presented as anything other than an optional extra. So I think  its most  likely that Halifax 
made Mr and Mrs F aware they had a choice  about  buying the PPI, and that they chose to 
take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr F, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr F wasnt 
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. While he said he had good 
benefits through work and savings,  the PPI covered him for longer than those wouldve 
lasted, and was especially  useful when his work benefits reduced to just a fraction of his 
salary. And the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Fs benefits.  I also understand Mr F 
had life insurance, but that covered different things to the PPI  Im afraid  it wasnt  relevant 
here. Its worth bearing in mind that Mr F was the sole earner, and if Mr and Mrs F fell behind 
on their mortgage payments they couldve lost their home. So it looks  like the PPI couldve 
been useful for them  in protecting  their home and giving  some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN04450762Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs F about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr F wasnt  affected  by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs F in case 
something went wrong. The policy was not bad value given how much it would pay out in a 
claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mr and Mrs F could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information  was likely to have  put 
them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0445076