K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) didnt deal with the 
faults with his new car properly.
Background
In July 2018 Mr M acquired  a new car costing £26,713. It was funded  by a hire purchase  
agreement and a deposit of £9,000. Within 30 days of acquisition he noticed there were chip 
marks on the paint.  He took it back  and was told it was stone damage. The car was taken to 
the garage on three occasions and had damaged  paintwork resprayed. The dealer has 
accepted, as have BMWFS that there  was a manufacturing fault with the paint.
He suggested  to BMWFS  that either the car should be resprayed  or he be allowed to reject 
it. BMWFS didnt agree and said that only those affected panels  need be resprayed.  Mr M 
brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our adjudicators  who 
recommended it be upheld. He set out the factual background  in some detail and I trust both 
parties will accept that it isnt necessary to repeat that here.
After the matter had been referred  to this service Mr M noticed the resprayed bonnet panel 
didnt match the original and he says he took it a specialist which told him the work  wasnt  
satisfactory.
Our adjudicator took the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality such  as a reasonable 
person would expect  with a brand new vehicle. He was satisfied that Mr M made the 
dealership aware  of the issue soon after discovering  it. He didnt consider it fair or 
reasonable for BMWFS  to say that it was happy to confirm  a defect is present but not willing 
to respray the whole car.
BMWFS didnt agree and said it was unreasonable to have the whole car resprayed when 
only certain panels were  damaged. It also said that originally Mr M hadnt  asked to be 
allowed to reject the car. Mr M pointed out that he had incurred additional servicing costs 
while waiting to resolve the complaint.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
Ref: DRN08099222The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is accepted that the paint on this car was faulty and I gather Mr M wasnt  alone in 
encountering this issue. The dealer, manufacturer and BMWFS have  taken what  I consider 
to be a make  do and mend approach  to the problem. It is accepted the paint is faulty and 
that has manifested itself in a number  of chip marks appearing.  Fixing these one by one is 
not a reasonable approach.
If the paint  is faulty then any part of the car is subject to marks appearing over time and so 
the proper remedy  would  be to have the car resprayed. I dont understand why this wasnt 
done initially. Mr M says he is aware of other  customers who have suffered the same 
problems whose cars have been resprayed.  
The fault is the substandard paint and the dealer was entitled to one opportunity to repair,  
but failed to do so. It simply fixed the chip marks and didnt repair the underlying  problem. I 
think the point  has passed when Mr M should  be satisfied with a respray. I consider the best 
solution is to allow Mr M to reject the car. 
I have noted Mr M has incurred expenditure in keeping the car running, but he has had the 
use of it and it is only reasonable  that he pay for such costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to: 
Unwind the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Mr M to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.
Refund the full deposit of £9000 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
BMWFS can keep the monthly  payments received on the agreement as Mr M has 
had fair use of the car whilst in his possession.
Remove the credit search recorded on Mr Ms file and mark the agreement as 
settled.
Pay £250.00 compensation  to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience  this has 
caused him for the multiple return visits to the garage for repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June   2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN0809922