K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000. Mrs S 
says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading  as Egg, mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ive seen screen shots of the online application  process Canada  Square says Mrs S 
wouldve seen and completed.  Ive not seen any reason to doubt that these screen shots are 
copies the screens  Mrs S wouldve  seen, so Ive relied on these in my decision. These show 
Mrs S wouldve  had to select either  yes or no for the PPI before  submitting her application. 
Canada Square  says the PPI wouldve only been added to her account if shed ticked  the 
yes option online,  and she wouldnt have been  able to progress  with her application without 
making a selection  here.
The online applications record which recorded  what Mrs S entered  online  suggests that she 
chose the yes option to have PPI added to her account. So based on the evidence Ive 
seen I think Canada Square made  it clear  that the PPI was optional,  and she chose to take it 
out.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if the policy  
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs S says she had sufficient other means at the time so she wouldnt have had any 
difficulty making her repayments. However,  for £0.59 per £100  of outstanding balance the 
PPI wouldve  covered 10% of her outstanding monthly balance, up to a maximum of £1,500,  
for up to 12 months. And this wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay, meaning these 
funds wouldve been free to use for other expenses. So I still think the PPI wouldve been  
useful for Mrs S, especially when her sick pay reduced to half, and I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
It follows then that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. This means Canada Square  doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. But Canada Square  has paid back some 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Mrs S, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN02112422To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0211242