K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy alongside his credit card in November 2001.
background
Mr O took out a Capital  One credit card. When he called to activate his card,  he was sold 
PPI on the phone, having originally said he didnt want it when he applied  for the card.
The policy covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months  per 
successful claim. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Os complaint  was upheld.  This was because  she 
didnt think that Capital One had given him enough  clear information when he took the PPI 
about the policy limitations for self-employed people. She thought this wouldve mattered to 
Mr O because he was planning  to become self-employed. She didnt think  he wouldve 
bought the policy if he had been  given clearer information.
Capital One didnt accept our adjudicators  view.  It said that when he took out the PPI Mr O 
said he was employed,  so he was eligible for the policy.  It asked that Mr O be required to 
provide evidence from HMRC of his self-employment and for his case to be considered by a 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Capital One didnt recommend this policy to Mr O. So, it didnt have to consider whether the 
policy was right for him. But, it did have to give him enough clear,  fair and not misleading 
information about the main features of the policy to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  it was right for him and he wanted to buy it.
Under the terms of the policy, the circumstances  in which a person who was self-employed,  
could make a claim for unemployment benefit were  quite limited and onerous when 
compared to an employed person. Also, if a person had definite  plans  to become self-
employed, they would  also have been  caught by the terms regarding self-employment.
Mr O was employed at the time of sale. But said he was planning to become  self-employed  
and was studying to enable him to take up a new line of work.
Mr O said he was unable now to provide information  from HMRC to show his self-employed  
status around the time the PPI was sold. He has however, provided certificates showing that 
he undertook various courses around the time in question. Mr O said his intention  was to 
become self-employed after that, although  he may have had to work  up to becoming  fully 
self-employed.
The first course completion  certificate was dated  December  2001, so very shortly  after he 
took out the PPI. He said hed finished  all the course modules by October  2002.  The 
certificates hes produced  are consistent  with that.
Ref: DRN08957282Mr O has also produced  evidence to show that in 2002 he took out insurance to cover  
himself in his new line of work. Hes also produced copies of correspondence  and meeting 
notes with a business regarding the self-employed work. Having seen  all of this, Im satisfied 
that at the time of sale,  Mr O was undertaking a course of study and had definite plans to 
become self-employed in whole or part within a year. 
I cant see that Capital  One made the limitations  regarding self-employment clear  to Mr O. I 
think it should have  done so, given  that unemployment benefit was a main feature of the 
policy. I think this mattered in Mr Os case and he has lost out because of it. I say this 
because I dont think Mr O wouldve bought the policy  if he had been given clearer  
information. I dont  think he wouldve thought  it worth it to him if may not be able to claim for 
unemployment.
putting things right
Capital One should put Mr O in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out 
PPI.
A.Capital One should find out how much Mr O would  have  owed when he closed his 
credit card account  if the policy  hadnt  been  added.
So it should  remove  the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr O owed  when he 
closed his account and what he would have  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Capital One should add simple  interest on the difference  between what Mr O would 
have owed when  he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. *
C.If  when Capital  One works out what Mr O would have owed each month  without 
PPI  Mr O paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Capital One should  also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mr O paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mr O wouldve owed Capital One something on his credit card. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.Capital One should tell Mr O what its done  to work out A, B and C.
*HM Revenue and Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest>  Capital One must give Mr O a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN08957283my final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint and order Capital One (Europe) plc to put things  right by doing 
what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0895728