K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold him a Help to Buy ISA in 2017.  
background
In 2017, Mr R approached  Nationwide to open  a Help to Buy ISA. He was told that he would 
qualify for £500  cashback on completion  of a mortgage and the corresponding closure of his 
ISA account. 
When Mr R completed  on his mortgage,  it transpired that hed been  given incorrect 
information. There had never been  a cashback  offer on Nationwides  Help to Buy ISA and 
Mr R wasnt entitled to the £500 that had been  offered. This caused Mr R some distress, as 
hed taken the money into account when budgeting for moving and furnishing his new home.
Mr R was also told that if his partner transferred her ISA to Nationwide,  they would receive a 
total of £350 between them. Mr Rs partner chose  not to transfer her account and so 
I havent considered  this point further.
Nationwide paid Mr R £75 in recognition  of its error  and the poor service he received. Mr R 
didnt agree this reflected the problems caused  and so referred  his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  As 
Mr R didnt agree, the complaints been  referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Nationwide gave Mr R incorrect  information, which  he then relied  on. 
What I need to decide is whether Nationwides offer is adequate compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr R as a result  of its error. And I think  it is.
Its important to bear in mind that the cashback  offer Mr R was told about  never  existed in 
relation to the Help to Buy ISA. There was a cashback offer associated with Nationwides  
Save to Buy mortgage,  which Mr R may have been  eligible  for as a Help to Buy ISA holder  
but it doesnt appear he chose this mortgage. It seems  the staff member who helped  Mr R 
open the Help to Buy ISA got confused between products and gave  Mr R incorrect 
information.
I appreciate this is frustrating. But in cases  like this, its not necessarily  the right answer to 
hold the business to the incorrect information. I need to consider what Mr R would have  
done had he been given  the right information  that is, that there was no cashback 
associated with the Help to Buy ISA. And if I think hed have done  something differently, 
I need to decide how best to put him back in the position he would have been in, but for the 
initial error.
Ref: DRN08095202Mr Rs said that he was interested in Nationwides ISA because  of the cashback offer. Had 
he known this didnt  exist, hed have gone to another bank or building society. I dont doubt 
Mr R would have considered his options  and looked at other available products. But I think  
he would  have ultimately still opted  for a Help to Buy ISA, as it came with an attractive 
government bonus.  And I havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwides Help to Buy 
ISA was uncompetitive or offered worse interest  rates than other providers. So while with the 
benefit of hindsight Mr R may feel hed have gone  elsewhere, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that hes suffered a financial loss as a result of choosing  Nationwides product 
over other Help to Buy ISAs.
In cases where there is no financial loss, I can make an award  for trouble  and upset suffered 
by a complainant.  In Mr Rs case, Nationwide has already made a payment of £75 to 
acknowledge the inconvenience and disappointment it caused. This is in line with other  
awards made by this service in similar  situations and is roughly what I would have awarded. 
So Im not going to ask Nationwide to do any more.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr R. But I think Nationwide has done enough 
to rectify its error. So Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint and am not instructing Nationwide to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0809520