K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has treated her unfairly when handling a 
claim she made under her car insurance.
background
When Ms Cs complaint came to our service her claim was still ongoing. Shes since made 
separate complaints about issues that occurred after UKI issued its final response at the end 
of August  2018.  For clarity, this decision  concerns the claim up until this point only.
In July 2018 Ms C was driving and her car set alight. Ms C contacted UKI to make a claim 
under her insurance.  The car was inspected and around three weeks  later UKI returned the 
car and said it didnt appear  there  was a fire and the vehicle was driving without issue.  
During this time UKI provided  Ms C with a hire car.
Ms C says the car was returned  to her with suspension issues, in a dirty condition, and it 
wasnt driving well. She took the vehicle to an independent garage who she said found 
extensive fire damage, including a melted  steering column.
UKI sent its same engineer out to review the car again. Ms C complained to UKI, saying it 
had told her the vehicle was safe to drive,  and that it had sent the same engineer which had 
caused her distress because she didnt  feel he was competent.
UKI apologised for its decision  to send the same  engineer and said his decision had been 
wrong and there would be a valid fire damage claim. UKI awarded  £750 to recognise its 
mistakes alongside  its apology.
Ms C brought her complaint to our service.  She said the experience  had caused her a lot of 
distress and that shed  spent over four hours  making phone calls related to this claim that 
had affected her work.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Cs concerns. She explained when we consider a 
complaint and a business has made  a mistake,  wed expect it to put a customer  back into 
the position they would be had it not happened. She said she expected UKI to therefore 
complete the repairs on the vehicle and cover  any costs  incurred  while it was in storage. And 
she said this is what UKI had now done. 
The investigator also said she expected UKI to try to minimise the impact of the mistake for 
Ms C. UKI had provided Ms C with a hire vehicle from July 2018  until the repairs  were  
completed  with the exception of a week in August  2018.
The investigator said UKI hadnt  provided the service it shouldve, causing  delays and 
distress to Mrs C. Taking all of this into account  she felt UKIs offer of £750 was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Ms C disagreed and said had the car been investigated initially  all of these problems 
couldve been avoided.  And she asked for the equivalent  of a weeks  wages because of the 
stress and lack of sleep  shes had, her finance  and car insurance costs for three  months.
Ref: DRN08783362Our investigator said she wouldnt look to award costs related  to insurance or finance  
payments as these  wouldve been  due anyway. And she said she wouldnt expect UKI to 
consider compensation based  on what Ms C earns,  and instead consider the impact it had 
on her. And in the circumstances she still felt £750 was fair. So the complaint has been  
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
ICOBS 8.1.1 requires  UKI to handle claims promptly and fairly.  In this case UKI has said it 
hasnt provided  the service it shouldve, causing delays and upset to Ms C over the period it 
investigated her claim. It also acknowledged the outcome its first engineer  reached  about the 
claim was wrong. And it apologised  and awarded Ms C £750 to recognise this.
Its not in dispute  that UKI has made mistakes when  handling  this claim. So I have  to 
consider what UKI should do, if anything  further than it has, to put things right for Ms C.
Ms C has asked for costs  related to her finance agreements and insurance during the period 
of the claim. Ms C wouldve still had these financial obligations during this period. So I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to ask UKI to pay these costs.
Ms C asked for a weeks wages to compensate her for the overall stress this experience has 
caused her. Ive thought  carefully about the impact shes described,  both in terms of stress 
as well as the time shes spent making phone calls.  And having  done so, Im satisfied £750 
is a fair and reasonable offer that accounts for this. So Im not going to ask UKI to do 
anything further.
Since this complaint came to our service Ms C raised specific  concerns about the hire car 
she was given by UKI. Shes said petrol  costs were higher in this vehicle, and that UKI 
should pay her for weeks hire car cost she incurred around this time. I cant  see UKI has had 
an opportunity to respond to these points specifically  so Ms C should raise  this directly with it 
if she hasnt already.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0878336