K821x#15complaint
Miss G says Provident Personal  Credit Limited trading as Satsuma irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Satsuma provided  to Miss G between July 2015  
and September  2016. Miss Gs borrowing history is as follows:
loan 
number start  dateloan amount 
(£) term end date
1 20/07/2015 200 52 weeks 24/06/2016
2 19/04/2016 350 52 weeks 24/06/2016
3 29/09/2016 300 52 weeks outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Gs complaint about  loan 3 but thought Satsuma didnt 
irresponsibly lend loans  1 and 2. Miss G disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss G could  repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Satsuma has provided information to show the checks it carried out, it says it searched 
Miss Gs credit  file, asked about  her monthly  income  and expenses.  Satsuma also said that 
it added  buffers to Miss Gs declared  expenses and based on all its checks and safeguards, 
each loan was affordable  for Miss G.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Gs credit  file and theres  no adverse information such as defaults  
or county  court  judgements recorded  at the time Satsuma lent to her.
After the adjudicators opinion, Satsuma agrees that it shouldnt have lent loan 3 and has 
made an offer to redress  Miss G for that loan,  offset the redress  against her outstanding 
balance and write off the rest of the principal.  
Miss G disagrees with the adjudication and has said its a poor offer.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided and what  
this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN00290572Loan 1 was Miss Gs first loan from Satsuma, and I can see she declared her income as 
£1,416.99 and her expenses  as £90. Satsuma added a buffer  of around £885.46, which  
meant that it treated Miss G as if she had around  £441.53 in disposable income per month. 
Given that Miss G was due to repay  £7.31  per week, the circumstances suggested she could 
have afforded  this loan. And I dont  think it was wrong for Satsuma to lend loan 1 to her.
By loan 2, I think Satsuma  shouldve  taken its checks  further  before lending  this loan. I say 
this because Miss G was increasing her borrowing from loan 1, she hadnt  repaid her 
previous loan and she was due to be repaying this loan for 52 weeks. I think  these factors 
taken together  shouldve  prompted Satsuma to build a clear picture of Miss Gs 
circumstances including  verifying some of the information Miss G had provided.
Had Satsuma carried out proportionate checks before  lending  loan 2, its likely to have  found  
that Miss Gs actual income around  the time of the loan was about £1,232. Miss G has 
provided her bank statements from the time and from what  I can see, she was borrowing 
from other lenders  and she had around  £247  outstanding to another lender which  I think 
Satsuma would likely have seen.  Taking  into account her living  costs which were around  
£568  it included things like housing food and regular credit  commitments, I think  this loan 
was affordable for Miss G. The highest repayment Miss G was due to make  on this loan was 
around £89.70  which  was the repayment for loans 1 and 2 combined  (when  the repayment 
for both loans overlapped). And Miss G wouldve  had sufficient disposable income.
When looking at cases like this, Im required to consider what  Satsuma saw or was likely to 
see had it carried out proportionate checks.  The information Miss G provided shows that 
around the time of loan 2, she took out short  term loans with two other lenders which  was 
around £850 but those loans dont appear in her bank statement until 18 April 2016  a day 
before Satsuma lent her loan 2. In those circumstances,  I think it was unlikely Satsuma 
wouldve seen the information about both those loans on her credit history or bank  
statements within such a short time. I think its likely  Satsuma would only have been aware of 
those loans had Miss G told Satsuma about them. I cant see that Miss G did this and so 
even if Satsuma carried out proportionate checks, they are likely to have  shown that she 
could afford  loan 2 and Satsuma wasnt wrong to lend to her.
I can see from the available information  that Miss G feels  strongly that Satsumas offer 
should be more  and she had mentioned the level of customer service  Satsuma  provided.  Im 
sorry Miss G feels this way but I note that she made a separate  complaint  about Satsumas 
customer service  which  has been dealt with under a different case reference  and so I 
wouldnt be looking at those issues here. 
But based  on the set of circumstances  here,  I dont  think Satsuma was wrong to lend Miss G 
loans 1 and 2 but it needs to put things right for lending her loan 3 when it shouldnt have. 
The redress  Satsuma has offered is in line with what this service recommends and gives  
Miss G a clean break as shell  no longer  have  an outstanding balance.  Satsuma has 
confirmed that there will be no negative information about any of the loans on Miss Gs credit 
file. I consider this to be fair in the circumstances and I wouldnt be asking Satsuma to do 
anymore.
Ref: DRN00290573putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do.
Satsuma should honour its offer and refund all interest and charges Miss G paid on 
loan 3 and add 8% interest from the date the payments  were  made to the date of 
settlement*. 
Satsuma may offset the outstanding balance on this loan from the redress  and as it 
has offered to write off any balance outstanding, Miss G would have no debt to repay 
to Satsuma.
Satsuma should also remove any negative information about  loan 3 from Miss Gs 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Gs complaint. Provident  Personal 
Credit Limited should pay Miss G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December  2019.
Tola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0029057