K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has failed to trace  a payment 
she made into the account  she held with it.
background
Mrs S says she transferred her account  from RBS to another  bank  and needed to make  a 
payment to RBS. She says RBS didnt allocate  the payment and hasnt been able to trace 
the payment.  Mrs S says RBS has all of the details it needs to find her money and says it 
shouldnt have threatened her with action when it couldnt find the money. She also says 
RBS hasnt told her that its now traced the payment.
RBS says the payment wasnt made  into Mrs Ss account, as she didnt enter the correct 
details. It says that the balance on Mrs Ks account  is correct and that shes  made the 
payment into the wrong account.  RBS doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it and didnt think  RBS 
had made  a mistake. The adjudicator thought  that Mrs S had made  the payment into 
someone elses account and she needed to raise the issue  with her bank that she made the 
payment from.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and says RBS hasnt tried to find her money and says it must 
be in another  persons account  or in limbo. She says this service should  be able to require 
RBS to improve its customer care. She also says that at no stage has RBS told her its found 
her money and that its online  payment  page is flawed and not secure.  Mrs S says she has 
now spoken to her other bank and its said she is out of time for making an indemnity claim. 
She would like her money returned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for largely  the same reasons. I realise  Mrs S will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  
happened.
Ive looked at RBSs records and Im satisfied that Mrs S didnt make the payment into her 
account and Im satisfied  she made a payment into someone elses account. So I dont  think 
RBS can be held responsible for Mrs Ss mistake  as I can see she entered  the account  
details and information. I also dont think in those  circumstances RBS made a mistake by 
asking Mrs S to pay it the money she owed.
I appreciate that Mrs S made  a mistake but I also think that RBS has on a number of 
occasions advised her that she needed to raise  the issue with her own bank from which  she 
made the payment. I dont think RBS could  simply have taken the money  out of another  
customers account and transferred  it to Mrs S, as the correct process is for Mrs Ss bank to 
attempt to recall the payment.
I also appreciate that Mrs S says RBS should  improve its customer care and that its online 
payment page  is flawed.  But I make  it clear to Mrs S that we are not the regulator  of banks 
and building societies and so those are not matters I can fairly comment on.
Ref: DRN09007442Overall Im satisfied that RBS hasnt made a mistake or acted  unfairly. I appreciate Mrs S 
says that as a result  of whats happened  her credit score has been affected. But for the 
reasons Ive explained I cant fairly  hold RBS responsible for that. 
There is no question that Mrs S has lost the money  she transferred and so I understand her 
frustration in those  circumstances. I hope  that she is able to ask her bank to attempt to recall 
the payment outside of the usual timescales or ask RBS if its able to write to its customer, 
whose account  the money  was paid into, on her behalf.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0900744