K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G). Hes concerned 
about compensation he was awarded  following a review of the transfer of his Occupational  
Pension Scheme (OPS)  benefits to a Section  32 Buy Out Policy  (S32 Policy) with L&G in 
2000. 
background
In 1989 Mr B was advised by L&G to transfer benefits he held in an OPS to a S32 Policy.  
The advice was reviewed  as part of the industry  wide Pensions Review  and it was found that 
the advice Mr B had received wasnt suitable. A loss assessment was carried out following  
this.
On 8 March 2000 L&G wrote  to Mr B with the outcome of its loss assessment. In summary it 
said:
it had conducted  a review of the advice Mr B received in line with the then regulators 
(the Personal Investment Authoritys (PIA))  guidance. And was making Mr B an offer 
of compensation  in line with this for £12,511.51
its offer was intended to ensure that on 1 February 2000  based on the assumptions 
set down by the regulator  Mr Bs L&G plan would be worth  the same  as the benefits 
he wouldve had if hed remained  under his OPS
Mr B should review its offer and if he wished to accept it return the enclosed form by 
19 April 2000
accepting L&Gs offer would prevent Mr B from bringing any further claim against 
L&G concerning  the matter
if Mr B was dissatisfied with the offer his case could be reviewed by senior  
management
if Mr B had any problems understanding the offer or had questions he should contact 
it or feel free to seek independent financial advice
Regarding its offer of compensation L&G specifically said:
It is only when  a claim is made  on your [L&G] plan that the exact value will be known. This 
could be more or less than assumed  in our calculation, but if you accept this offer your case 
will be deemed settled ()
Any compensation will be applied  in respect  of your Section 32 Buy Out Policy. The value of 
your plan is £15,811.23 as at 1st February 2000. We will set up a new policy  to 
accommodate the compensation amount of £12,511.51 ()
To avoid  any doubt we should stress that the increase referred to will be made  directly  to 
your plan and will not be available  to you as a cash payment ().
Mr B accepted L&Gs offer of compensation. L&G set up a new policy for this accordingly. 
Having reviewed his retirement provision  with a financial  adviser  Mr B wrote to L&G on 19 
October 2017 to raise  concerns  about the compensation  L&G had paid him in 2000. In 
summary he said:
Ref: DRN08501552it was never explained  that the compensation he received would be linked to his 
existing S32 Policy 
he thought  his compensation payment and S32 Policy were  two distinct  policies
he was never told the 2000 compensation policy would  be used to make  up for/top 
up the financial shortfall in his S32 Policy
L&G had provided compensation  in 2000  which wouldnt actually benefit him
L&G provided its final response to Mr Bs complaint  on 3 November 2017. In summary it 
said:
it would  explain what happened when  it paid Mr B compensation in 2000, but 
reminded him that the time for complaining about these issues had expired
in October 1994 the industry regulator ordered  a review of sales  of pensions  taken 
out between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994- this was the Pensions Review
Mr Bs complaint about his S32 Policy being mis-sold was finalised in 2000 when he 
accepted L&Gs  offer to add £12,511.51 to his policy to compensate him for 
transferring benefits from his OPS
the regulator at the time prescribed what L&G should do regarding  compensation
it paid compensation  into a new policy-  under the U reference  ending 871
it was always the case that the S32 Policy  under the G reference  ending 533 and 
the U Policy were in effect a single plan.  And under  Inland  Revenue requirements 
benefits had to be taken together
the purpose of the Pensions  Review was to place Mr B as near as possible back in 
the position he wouldve been in had he not been  advised to transfer out of his OPS.  
In practice this meant ensuring his Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) would  be 
met
certain performance assumptions were made at the time that, had they been met, 
wouldve resulted  in the value of the G and U policies together  matching  exactly the 
benefits L&G agreed to meet via the GMP it took on from Mr Bs OPS. However its 
letter of 3 March  2000 explained  that it is only when a claim is made that the exact 
value will be known. This could be more or less than our calculation
had the G and U policies together outperformed assumptions used in 2000 Mr B 
wouldve benefited from that outperformance
unfortunately the reality was the assumptions  had been  overly optimistic. But as L&G 
still needed to meet its GMP  obligations,  Mr B would receive those benefits when he 
reached State Retirement Age
Mr B was correct to say that if L&G hadnt topped  up his S32 Policy in 2000 by way 
of the U Policy he would still receive  his GMP in the same amount at the same age. 
But it explained he wouldnt have benefited  from the possibility that, with the addition 
of the U Policy his S32 Policy may have outperformed
the purpose of the Pensions  Review was only to place Mr B as close as possible 
back in the position  he wouldve been  in had he not transferred out of his OPS. If it 
eventually paid Mr Bs GMP by using only the value of his G Policy  and allowed  him 
to benefit additionally from the value of the U Policy  hed be in a better  position  than if 
hed remained in his OPS. This wasnt  the intention of the Pension Review
its compensation payment wasnt available as a separate amount
Unhappy with L&Gs response Mr B referred his complaint to our service.
Ref: DRN08501553One of our investigators  considered the matter and didnt think  L&G needed to do anything.  
He explained  L&G had followed the Pensions  Review methodology set down by the 
regulator.
Mr B responded and in summary said:
while he accepted  our investigators main points about the Pensions  Review and 
L&Gs compensation in line with this, he didnt think the compensation had accounted  
for what he described as the loss of inflation  protection on his pension when it was 
put into payment
his OPS had included the benefit of an inflation escalator which  protected  the value  
of his pension  from inflation by up to 5% RPI when it was put into payment. The S32 
Policy hed transferred  to didnt  have this protection 
he didnt think L&Gs compensation in 2000 had taken into account  the loss of the 
inflation escalator
L&Gs 2000 compensation only addressed the difference in the value of his pension 
pot as a result of his OPS transfer  but didnt address the loss of the benefit of 
inflation protection hed have from 2026 when  he reached age 65 and began 
receiving pension  payments
Our investigator responded to Mr B and said the aim of the Pension Review  compensation 
was to place an investor  in the position they would have been in, or as near as possible, if 
they had not followed the original advice to transfer out of their OPS.  The compensation 
payment in 2000 was the amount to equalise  the values of the two schemes  using 
assumptions required by the PIA taking into account  the GMP and other benefits. Our 
investigator said that as Mr B accepted  L&Gs compensation offer this wasnt something 
which could now be revisited
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. In summary he said:
he had no issue with L&Gs compensation to address the shortfall  in the value of his 
S32 Policy and he accepted that the compensation policy  and his S32 policy were 
linked and couldnt be paid separately
he felt the remaining  issue was that the loss of the inflation  protection benefit hed 
had with his OPS hadnt been  considered as part of the Pensions Review  or factored 
into L&Gs compensation payment. He said he had a legitimate claim against L&G for 
the loss of this specific benefit
he wanted L&G to pay the inflation protection he wouldve benefited from under his 
OPS 
hed only become away of the loss of inflation protection  when  hed sat down to 
review his retirement provision with his financial adviser in 2016
none of L&Gs correspondence from 2000 referred to the inflation protection benefit  
having been taken into account as part of L&Gs compensation offer
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should  emphasise that while Ive 
Ref: DRN08501554taken serious note of the comments made  by both parties, I have limited my response to 
what I consider to be the issues  central  to this complaint.
In his latest submissions  Mr B has said the following:
() I have  no issue with the 2000  compensation award for mis-selling the Section 32 buy 
out pension as it clearly  () was financial compensation for the shortfall in the pension 
valuation between the [OPS] and the section 32 pension and I have accepted your decision 
that the funds  are linked  and cant be paid separately and effectively form [sic] a single 
pension pot ().
In light of this I dont propose  to repeat again  the contents of the explanations  both L&G and 
our investigator have provided  to Mr B regarding the basis of the Pensions Review  and the 
compensation Mr B was offered  and accepted regarding this. Instead Ill focus on what  Mr B 
says his remaining  concern is- the loss of the inflation protection benefit he say he previously 
had as part of his OPS before he transferred to his S32 Policy with L&G.  Its clear  to me that 
Mr B feels  strongly that L&Gs 2000  compensation wasnt sufficient on the basis that it 
doesnt specifically  take into account  the loss of this benefit. 
But that has been taken into account.  The redress  that was paid by L&G in 2000 was 
determined as the value of the OPS benefits that Mr B would have  received  if he hadnt 
transferred. This would allow  for the Limited  Price  Indexation (LPI)  increases to the OPS 
pension in payment.  The transfer value of the S32 policy  would then be deducted  from the 
value of the OPS  benefits calculated on the basis of the guidelines and assumptions set 
down by the regulator which, as Ive said would take into account increases  to the pension in 
payment. 
So, having  carefully considered all the available evidence Im satisfied that L&G has done  all 
thats required regarding  the compensation it offered and paid Mr B following the loss 
calculation it carried out under the Pensions  Review.  More  generally:
1.as part of the Pensions Review  and under  the express guidance of the regulator, 
L&G was only required to review  the advice Mr B received  once. And this had to be 
based on assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time.  The fact these  
assumptions may not have achieved what was expected (or accounted for every 
specific benefit held under a former  OPS) isnt grounds to redo the calculation. This 
is because the Pensions Review  was only intended  to provide, as close as possible,  
the right amount of redress to consumers like Mr B to compensate  them as much as 
possible for any financial loss they were  identified to have suffered as a result of their 
transfer out of an OPS.  Im mindful that L&Gs letter to Mr B in 2000 confirmed the 
following:
It is only when  a claim is made  on your [L&G] plan that the exact value will be known. This 
could be more or less than assumed  in our calculation, but if you accept this offer your case 
will be deemed settled ()
2.Mr Bs S32 Policy  with L&G includes a commitment  to provide a GMP. L&G has to 
make sure the GMP is covered. The commitment to provide  the GMP includes  a 
responsibility to provide  increases to the GMP once it is in payment. But only up to 
3% and only on the GMP built up after 5 April 1988.  The State has to provide 
Ref: DRN08501555increases on any GMP before that date. I note that Mr B says his OPS included  a 
benefit which wouldve  meant hed receive increases of up to 5% on his pension 
payments in excess of the GMP from age 65. But as Ive said that will have been 
taken into account  in the redress  calculation.  The Pensions Review guidance didnt 
specify that L&G had to directly mirror this benefit  in the redress it offered in 2000, 
but rather to take into account its value. L&Gs Pensions Review  letter said:
Our regulator () has set guidelines  () in accordance with these  guidelines we have 
compared the current  value of your transferred  benefits with the current  value of the 
benefits which would have remained under your occupational scheme had you not effected 
the transfer.
So under the Pensions Review Mr B isnt necessarily entitled to the exact  same  
increases he may have  benefited from under his for OPS.
The aim of the Pensions Review calculation and compensation was to make a 
payment that was thought  to be enough  to increase the value of Mr Bs S32 Policy  to 
provide about  the same  level of benefits  his OPS wouldve  done.  
But the problem  was that for many people  in Mr Bs position there  was a long period 
left until retirement. So calculations done were  based on assumptions that were 
necessary because of this. Unfortunately  as L&G has already explained the 
assumptions used havent  mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also fallen 
significantly (the rates  at which the pension  fund is turned into income).  These factors  
have had a big impact on the benefits  provided  at retirement. So although Mr Bs S32 
Policy was increased - with the intention for it to match  the benefits he wouldve 
received from his OPS  at age 65, circumstances  have  meant  this may not be the 
case when he takes benefits. If the actual experience had been more  favourable  and 
more in line with the assumptions  used Mr B may have been  better  off at retirement. 
3.L&Gs Pension Review  compensation letter in 2000 was clear about the importance 
of Mr B considering its offer carefully before he took any action. Specifically it invited  
Mr B to ask any questions he had or query anything he didnt understand before he 
accepted its compensation offer. L&G also suggested that Mr B might wish to seek  
independent financial  advice regarding the offer. I think Mr B was provided with 
sufficient opportunity at the time to make sure he was in a position  to make an 
informed decision about L&Gs  compensation  offer under the Pensions Review.  So it 
wouldnt be appropriate or fair for me to require L&G to revisit the matter  now almost 
nineteen years later
The aim of the Pensions Review was effectively to draw  a line under  any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise and from everything Ive seen  
L&G carried  out the review it was required to. Had the regulator instead required  businesses  
like L&G to wait until an individual reached retirement age (which in some  cases could be 
20/30 years  or more), many people  like Mr B would have been  denied any redress at all 
because many businesses wouldve ceased  to exist by the time their retirement date came  
about.
Ref: DRN08501556L&G was required to carry out internal quality assurance checks to ensure that the 
calculations were correct  and in line with the guidance. L&G was also subject to regular  
inspections from the regulator to ensure that the review had been carried out in line with the 
guidance. From what Ive seen L&G has carried out the calculations  correctly and paid the 
appropriate redress amount. 
I should say that I do understand why Mr B is unhappy with the Pensions Review  
methodology and therefore feels L&Gs calculation (and offer of compensation) was perhaps  
incomplete. But this was the then regulators decision on how to deal with the mis-selling  
problem. And so its not something this service  can now challenge  or ignore. 
I empathise with Mr Bs situation  and realise  hell be disappointed with my decision but as 
Ive already explained, the Pensions Review  was an industry  wide standardised process and 
L&G complied with this. L&Gs  offer was accepted  by Mr B in full and final settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0850155