K821x#15Complaint
Mrs K complains that Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited unfairly  declined  a claim she made  
under her employers group income protection policy, of which she was beneficiary. 
Background
Mrs K started working for her employer as a senior manager in September  2014. Her role is 
largely desk based but also involves  attending  meetings with clients.  She was already  
suffering with some physical health conditions and has been diagnosed with several  more  
since, including fibromyalgia. She started  experiencing  symptoms  of anxiety in late 2016. 
She was reviewed by occupational health  therapists  in July 2016 and June 2017. The first 
therapist concluded  Mrs K was fit to attend  work  with certain adjustments. He referred  to a 
deterioration in Mrs Ks working  relationships  and emphasised the need to address this. He 
said Mrs Ks non-specific health conditions  made  her less able to cope with stress. 
The second  therapist also concluded Mrs K was fit to work but encouraged her employer to 
make further  adjustments to her workload and working arrangements. He commented that 
the symptoms of Mrs Ks physical health  conditions affected her concentration. 
Issues arose with Mrs Ks work  in September 2017 and she was invited to a disciplinary 
meeting. Mrs K found  this hard to deal with. Her General Practitioner (GP)  declared her 
unfit to work, initially due to work-place stress, and prescribed her an anti-depressant. 
In November 2017, the GP issued a new sick note which said Mrs K was unable  to work due 
to anxiety and depression.  By this time, hed also prescribed a sedative  to help Mrs K sleep. 
He wrote to Mrs Ks employer  in December 2017  reporting that she was unfit to work  due to 
anxiety, depression and work-related  stress.
He clarified that Mrs Ks fibromyalgia  was manageable and wasnt  the reason she was unfit 
for work. He suggested that Mrs Ks overall health might improve  once the employment 
issues, which appeared to relate to a particular  colleague,  were resolved. And that Mrs K felt 
shed be able to return to her normal duties if her workload and hours were reduced.  Mrs K 
raised a claim with Aviva in March 2018. 
Mrs Ks GP sent two more letters to her employer in May 2018 confirming that he was 
issuing sick notes on the basis that Mrs K states her depression and stress  are making it 
impossible for her to work at present.  
Ref: DRN02269892Mrs Ks employer  received Avivas  claim decision around the same time.  Aviva said it felt 
that Mrs Ks absence was a result of workplace  matters  rather  than her health  conditions. 
Mrs K appealed Avivas  decision. But after referring  the matter to its Chief Medical Officer, it 
stood by its original decision,  highlighting that Mrs Ks sick notes seemed to be driven  by her 
own subjective reporting.  
From September 2018, the GP added some  of Mrs Ks physical conditions  to her sick notes. 
Aviva was asked to review its stance  by Mrs Ks employer in light of this but it continued  to 
feel there was no payable claim. 
In October  2018, Mrs K saw another occupational health therapist. He said Mrs K showed 
severe symptoms of both anxiety and depression, despite continuing to take anti-depressant 
medication and engaging  in counselling.  He concluded Mrs K was unfit to return  to work until 
after an employment tribunal hearing  scheduled  for May 2019. And he commented  that there 
were no adjustments  that would facilitate an earlier return to work. 
A preliminary hearing of the tribunal  took place in November 2018  to establish if Mrs Ks 
health conditions  constituted disabilities under the Equality Act 2010.  The tribunal 
commented that Mrs Ks depression inhibited her from human interaction and had a 
substantial impact on her ability to perform tasks  requiring her to leave her home. It also 
accepted that Mrs Ks fibromyalgia  and temporomandibular disorder were  disabilities under 
the Act.  
The Department for Work and Pensions agreed that Mrs K had limited capacity for work in 
February 2019 and clarified that she didnt  have to look for work in order  to receive her 
benefits, other than to meet  with a work coach to prepare for a future  to return to work. 
Aviva reaffirmed its position  on the claim in a final response letter in March 2019.  It 
highlighted the GPs  previous comments that Mrs K felt she could return to work on a 
reduced workload.  And it said the clinical evidence  didnt support an incapacity claim from a 
physical standpoint.  Ultimately, it still felt the absence  was due to the employment dispute. 
Another occupational health  report has since been  produced, in which the therapist agreed 
that Mrs K is unfit for work in any capacity due to the severity  of both her psychological and 
physical health  conditions. The therapists view was that a return to her role wasnt  
foreseeable and that Mrs K should  consider  claiming  for ill health retirement. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 13 March 2020.  Ive included an extract  
below. I said:
Under the terms of Mrs Ks policy, a claim is only payable once shes established  that shes  
met the following definition of incapacity for a continuous period of 26 weeks:
incapacitated, by reason of illness or injury, when  the insurer is satisfied that the 
employee is incapable of performing the material  and substantial duties of his or her 
own occupation and is not following any other occupation.
The burden of proof  initially  rests with Mrs K to establish, on the balance of probabilities, that 
shes met this test. But the relevant  rules  and industry guidelines require  Aviva  to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject claims unreasonably.
Ref: DRN02269893In this case, Aviva has maintained that Mrs K isnt prevented  from performing the material 
and substantial duties  of her occupation  by reason of illness. It feels  that Mrs Ks absence 
results from an ongoing  dispute with her employer, as opposed to her medical conditions. 
I can appreciate the position Aviva took on this to begin with. The absence started shortly 
after Mrs K was invited to a disciplinary  hearing.  Neither of the two occupational health 
reports produced prior to that suggested Mrs K was unfit to work  by reason of her illnesses. 
And the first sick note signed  by Mrs Ks GP simply referred to work-place stress.
Even once  Mrs K was diagnosed with depression, the GP said Mrs K felt she could return to 
her normal  duties if her workload and hours were reduced.  And when pressed, he said he 
was issuing sick notes  based on Mrs Ks own assessment  of her fitness to work. So, I dont 
think Mrs K was initially able to show that shed met the burden of proof given above. 
Mrs Ks policy doesnt require that she has to be actively  working  when an incapacity begins 
though. So, she can still make a claim even if she becomes  incapacitated  once shes  already 
off work, so long as she can show the definition of incapacity  has been met for 26 weeks.  
And I think theres sufficient evidence  to support that, from October 2018, the symptoms of 
Mrs Ks anxiety  and depression were severe enough to meet Avivas definition  of incapacity. 
Its important to remember, an occupational health  therapist had already warned in July 2016 
that Mrs Ks ability to cope with work-related stress was impaired due to her non-specific 
health conditions.  This supports that being involved in a disciplinary process  and an 
employment tribunal  was likely to exacerbate Mrs Ks anxiety and generally  adversely affect  
her mental wellbeing. 
The occupational health therapist that reviewed  Mrs K in October 2018 carried  out well 
validated questionnaires on the symptoms  of anxiety and depression, and she scored 
severely for both parameters. He said that, in his professional opinion, Mrs K was unfit to 
return to work until after the Employment Tribunal hearing. Importantly, he linked  Mrs Ks 
unfitness to work to the severity  of the symptoms  of her anxiety and depression. 
Aviva has said this report shows that if Mrs K wasnt in a dispute with her employer,  or if she 
worked somewhere else, shed be fit to work. But this just establishes  that Mrs Ks anxiety 
and depression were  triggered by the work-place issues,  which  isnt particularly  relevant  to 
the policy terms. What matters is whether these diagnoses were severe enough to prevent 
Mrs K from carrying out the duties  of her own occupation. 
The occupational health therapist said there  were  no adjustments  Mrs Ks employer could 
make to facilitate an earlier return to work. And that Mrs K was unlikely to recover for her 
condition until after a scheduled employment tribunal hearing. I dont perceive from the 
report that he considered  Mrs K well enough to work for another employer in the meantime. 
The occupational health therapists findings  are consistent with the comments of the 
employment tribunal  in November 2018, which were that Mrs Ks depression was 
sufficiently serious to render her unfit to work  Such symptoms clearly  have a substantial 
impact on her day to day activities given she is inhibited from human interaction or to 
perform tasks which require her to leave  her home and talk to strangers. 
Ref: DRN02269894It would appear from the occupational health  report produced  after the employment tribunal, 
in September  2019, that Mrs Ks condition hasnt subsequently improved. This identified  that 
the symptoms of Mrs Ks depression were  poorly  controlled her mood is low, her sleep is 
disturbed, her concentration and memory are poor. 
It concluded, in no uncertain terms, that Mrs K was unfit for work in any capacity due to the 
severity of both her psychological  and physical conditions. And a return  to work, even with 
adjustments, wasnt foreseeable. I think its compelling that the occupational health  therapist 
encouraged Mrs K to explore her eligibility  for ill-health retirement. 
It also appears that there has been a corresponding  deterioration in Mrs Ks physical health. 
Mrs Ks GP began adding  her physical conditions to her sick notes in September  2018. 
Although I recognise  that the test is different than that for incapacity  under the policy,  it is 
nevertheless informative that the Department for Work and Pensions agreed  Mrs K had 
limited capacity to work in February 2019. And, as referenced  above, the occupational 
therapists findings  that Mrs K was unfit for work  in any capacity in September 2019 were  
based on both Mrs Ks psychological  and physical conditions. 
Taking all of this into account,  Im satisfied that Mrs K has been able to show that, separately 
from her work-place issues, shes  incapable, by reason of illness, of performing the material 
and substantial duties  of her own occupation and has been since October 2018. I intend  to 
direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  to accept  Mrs Ks claim  and pay benefit in 
accordance with the policys  remaining  terms and conditions,  on the basis that the 26 week  
deferred period  was triggered in October 2018.  I intend to direct Aviva  to add interest to the 
benefit payments  at the annual simple  rate of 8% calculated from the date each payment 
was due to the date of settlement. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Aviva responded to confirm it had received my provisional decision, and didnt have anything 
further to add. 
Mrs K asked me to consider whether Aviva  should pay compensation  on top of the award in 
reflection of the fact that it should  have accepted the claim earlier.  She felt this would have  
reduced her indebtedness and improved her credit rating. She said that shed been forced to 
put her possessions into storage and rent out her home in order to use the additional income  
to avoid the need for her home to be repossessed. She felt the compensation award  should  
also reflect  that Aviva  prolonged her anxiety, which in turn impacted her physical health. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Following Mrs Ks response to my provisional  decision, I asked  our investigator to establish  
when Aviva was first provided  with the key pieces of evidence  I relied  on in my provisional 
decision. It became  clear  that Aviva  hadnt previously been presented with the occupational 
health report from October 2018,  although  it was sent the report from September  2019  in 
November of last year which made reference  to it. It appears that it had copies of Mrs Ks 
fitness to work certificates and was aware that the Department of Work and Pensions agreed 
she had limited capacity  to work in February  2019.  Its unclear whether the judgment  from 
the preliminary hearing of the employment tribunal was shared with Aviva. 
Ref: DRN02269895Its important to highlight  that I concluded Mrs K has met Avivas definition of incapacity 
since October 2018, whereas she has been absent from work since late 2017.  The policy 
also has a deferred  period  of 26 weeks during which  no benefit  is payable. So, there always 
would have been a period of roughly eighteen months during  which  Mrs K was absent from 
work but ineligible to receive benefit  from the policy. The first time, in my view, that Mrs K 
was owed payments  from the policy was April 2019.  So, although I appreciate  Mrs K is in a 
difficult position financially  at the moment,  I dont think this is solely as a result of benefit  not 
being paid from April 2019. The same applies to Mrs Ks credit rating.  
Furthermore, I mentioned  in the provisional  decision that the burden of proof  initially rested 
with Mrs K to establish, on balance,  that shed met the policy definition of incapacity for 
longer than the deferred period. In this case,  the two key pieces of evidence  which  I felt 
demonstrated that were  the two most recent  occupational health reports. As Ive said, the 
first Aviva became aware of either report was in November 2019. This was some eight 
months after Mrs K had received Avivas final response letter to this complaint and referred it 
to our service for investigation. So realistically,  I dont think  Aviva could in fact have  accepted 
the claim prior to our involvement. 
I dont think the other evidence, like the fitness to work statements, the employment tribunal  
judgment and the comments  of the Department  of Work and Pensions,  were  enough  to meet  
the required burden of proof in the absence of the medical commentary given in the reports. 
Although, it did help to inform my provisional decision that these  pieces of evidence 
accorded with the occupational health therapists findings. 
Mrs K has said the October  2018  report wasnt provided earlier  because  Aviva had shown 
an unwillingness to consider new information.  But she accepts that she did subsequently 
provide further  information when she sent Aviva the September 2019 report. I do recognise 
that the process of making this claim hasnt been  easy for Mrs K. But in the circumstances I 
dont think Aviva made it worse than it might otherwise have been. So, I dont make an 
award for the anxiety caused by claiming. 
Mrs K has now been able to establish,  in my view,  that shes met Avivas definition of 
incapacity since October 2018.  Taking  the deferred  period into account, this means  that 
funds have been owed to Mrs K under the policy since April 2019 (even though this only 
became apparent more recently). The interest award I mentioned  in my provisional  decision 
is intended to compensate  Mrs K for the fact that shes been without these funds.  
My final decision  
Where I uphold  a complaint brought to us before 1 April 2019, I can award  fair compensation 
to be paid by a financial business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs / interest 
on costs that I consider  appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I 
may recommend that the business pays the balance. 
I uphold this complaint  and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to accept  Mrs Ks claim 
and pay benefit  in accordance with the policys  remaining  terms and conditions,  on the basis 
that the 26 week deferred period was triggered  in October 2018. I direct Aviva to add 
interest* to any backdated benefit payments at the annual simple  rate of 8% calculated from 
the date each payment became due to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN02269896If payment  of the claim  exceeds  £150,000, I recommend that Aviva  continues to pay it so 
long as Mrs K remains eligible. This recommendation is not part of my determination or 
award. Aviva doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mrs K can accept  my 
decision and go to court to ask for the recommended balance. Mrs K may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020. 
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
*If Aviva considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs K how 
much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs K a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0226989