K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Mr P and Ms F say The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland  (trading  at the 
time as Bristol and West Building Society) mis-sold them the PPI. The PPI only covered     
Mr P. Ill refer to the business as BoI in my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr P and Ms Fs case.
To briefly summarise  Mr P and Ms Fs main complaint points,  they said:
they werent told that PPI was optional or that they could have sourced PPI from 
another business;
it was implied that taking PPI would help with their mortgage application being 
approved; and
they thought  that they were both covered by the PPI
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I've considered  a copy of Mr P and Ms Fs application  form. Towards  the end of the 
form, theres a section headed  Payment Protection insurance. In this section it 
states that PPI would automatically be included unless its opted out of. Theres an 
option to opt out by indicating in a nearby box. This box has been left blank and Mr P 
and Ms F have signed the overall application. 
Ive also noted  that directly below the PPI section, there were a number of options for 
buildings insurance  and one specific option has been ticked. This again suggests to 
me that Mr P and Ms F would reasonably have been aware that they had a choice 
about the additional insurances
Ive also considered an example welcome letter  that BoI say is reflective of what  
would have been sent to Mr P and Ms F after the application.  If they did receive  such 
a letter,  it briefly outlines that the application has been received and who is covered 
by the policy.  It also outlines  that the insurance can be cancelled  within  a specified  
time period without  any charge.
BoI have also told us that the PPI would have been  charged by a separate  payment, 
separate to their mortgage payment, but that a copy of the direct debit mandate  form 
is no longer available. This again  would suggest  that PPI was separate to and not a 
condition of their mortgage.
Ive considered the specific complaint  point  made  by Mr P and Ms F about not being 
told that they could buy PPI elsewhere. But BoI werent obliged to tell Mr P and Ms F 
about other policies  sold by other businesses. As Mr P and Ms F paid for this PPI 
policy by a monthly premium, they could cancel it at any time and take out a different 
policy with a different  business.      
Ref: DRN07869822I also havent seen  evidence to support what Mr P and Ms F have said about being 
told that taking  PPI would increase their chances of being approved  for the mortgage. 
For the reasons  Ive already explained, I think its more likely than not that the PPI 
was presented as separate to and not a condition of their mortgage.  
In this case, when  Ive carefully considered  Mr P and Ms Fs complaint, I think  its 
more likely than not that they would reasonably have been aware that PPI was 
optional and they chose to take it out as they didnt indicate that they didnt want it on 
the form. Given that this sale took place the best part of 30 years  ago, its possible 
that Mr P and Ms F may not clearly recall  everything now.  
BoI didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr P, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr P got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information BoI gave Mr P and Ms F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means BoI doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P and  
Ms F.
But BoI will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr P and Ms F because:  
When the policy was sold,  BoI expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr P and Ms F 
about that. Because BoI didnt tell Mr P and Ms F, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoI has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P and Ms F have  said - including  what theyve said about  
being lead to believe that they were both covered by the PPI. As I wasnt  at the meeting,       
I dont know what was discussed. But Ive also noted that Mr Ps income  was almost twice  
that of Ms Fs, according to the mortgage  application and I also havent  seen evidence that 
Mr P and Ms F have  lost out because  of only Mr P being covered by the PPI. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
BoI has to pay back to Mr P and Ms F any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. BoI should also pay back  to Mr P and Ms F any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN07869823BoI should  pay back to Mr P and Ms F the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. BoI should  also 
pay Mr P and Ms F 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P and Ms F can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland  does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P and Ms F.
But The Governor and Company of the Bank  of Ireland does have to pay back  to Mr P and 
Ms F any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0786982