K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about ten payday  loans and a running account facility  Quick Quid provided  
to Mr M from October 2012  onwards.  Mr Ms last loan was provided in February  2015. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought the loans from payday loans 
seven to nine and the running account  (flex-credit) facility shouldnt have been given. 
Quick Quid didnt accept  our adjudicators view in full. And Mr M didnt accept  the offer Quick 
Quid made. As the parties havent been  able to agree on a resolution the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr M could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr M could repay  his loans in a sustainable manner. And I think  that this is wider 
than simply assessing  whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
Ref: DRN07968812pence calculation.  Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr M, I think  that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr M was unlikely to have been  able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan seven. I say this 
because:
By this stage, Mr M was into his seventh  consecutive month  of owing Quick Quid  
money. In my view,  Mr Ms pattern  of borrowing up until this point  was in itself a clear 
demonstration of Mr Ms inability to settle  his loans over the life of the credit  
agreement. Mr Ms seventh  loan was for two and a half time the amount of his first 
and hed already repaid significantly more than what he was lent in interest  fees and 
charges.   
Mr M continued  to be provided  with new loans shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr M was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. While Ive 
seen that Quick Quid has referred  to the enhanced checks  it carried  out for loan ten, 
this doesnt alter the fact that it lent to him a mere  matter  of weeks after he eventually 
settled his running account facility. And this facility had been  in place for almost two 
years.
Mr M was provided with loans for a pretty much  unbroken period of two and a half 
years. I accept that some of the loans were for smaller amounts. But these were 
almost always  followed by ones  for more.  And this meant  that Mr M wasnt  making 
any real inroads into what he owed Quick  Quid  and his indebtedness was being 
prolonged for an extended period of time. This meant that Mr M paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan 
seven onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr M owed Quick Quid  money was likely  to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
Ref: DRN07968813So Im upholding  the complaint about  payday  loans seven to nine and the running  account 
facility and Quick  Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on payday loans seven to nine and the 
running account (flex-credit) facility;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr M owed  Quick Quid money  means that any information  
recorded about payday loans  seven to nine and the running account (flex-credit) 
facility is adverse. So all entries about payday  loans  seven to nine and the running 
account (flex-credit) facility should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0796881