K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  unfairly recorded  a default on her credit  file 
following a non-payment  of charges incurred after a car was returned at the end of a hire 
purchase agreement.  
background  
In February 2010  Miss T entered into a three year hire purchase agreement for a car. 
Although the agreement  was in Miss Ts name  the car was to be used solely  by her father. 
All the documentation  in respect of the car was sent to Miss Ts father  at a different address 
to Miss Ts. This was at Miss Ts request.
At the end of the three  years the car was returned.  Miss T didnt see the condition  of the car 
when it went back and took no part in handing it back. The car was independently  inspected  
and an invoice for £515.42  was raised  for damage to the car that was said to be beyond fair 
wear and tear. 
A dispute was raised about the outstanding invoice in June 2013. PSA reviewed the 
complaint and offered to reduce the invoice to £300 plus VAT. However there was no 
response to this offer although  efforts were  made  by PSA to make contact with the phone  
number supplied (a work number) and via letter. 
In August  2013  the offer was closed  and as no payments had been received by PSA a 
default was recorded on Miss Ts credit file. 
In October  2014 PSA says that Miss T made  a complaint that it had incorrectly recorded a 
default on the account. PSA says that it replied that the default was correctly  recorded due to 
the outstanding invoice.  
In December 2017 PSA says Miss T called again to say the details had been  recorded 
incorrectly. PSA says it responded that the details recorded about the account were  correct. 
In April 2018 PSA sold the debt to a third party company. And in July 2018 Miss T disputed  
the default and the third party contacted PSA who investigated her complaint. PSA sent  
Miss T a final response letter in October  2018  but mistakenly sent it to her former  address so 
it wasnt received. 
In that letter  PSA had said it wasnt upholding Miss Ts complaint. It said that costs had been 
incurred for damage  to the car and that a settlement offer had been made but no contact had 
been received  from Miss T. This had led to the outstanding debt being sold on. However 
PSA said that after careful consideration it had chosen to write off the outstanding balance 
and hoped this was a suitable  resolution.
As Miss T hadnt received  this final response  letter or heard from PSA she complained to 
this service. She said that shed asked PSA to provide  supporting evidence of the damage to 
the car. Miss T said she wouldnt dispute owing money  if PSA could prove the damage  that it 
said had incurred the costs but that it had refused to do so.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. He said that as 
Miss Ts name was on the agreement and she had signed it then, even though  she hadnt 
Ref: DRN09112272used the car, it was her duty to ensure that the terms and conditions of the agreement were 
met. PSA hadnt acted  unreasonably in holding her responsible for the condition of the car.
Our investigator said that after the car had been  inspected an invoice was sent for payment. 
This invoice  had been challenged and PSA had made an offer to reduce the costs  to £300 
plus VAT. But as it hadnt received any response  it closed  the complaint. Our investigator 
said that although he accepted that all the paperwork for the car had been sent to Miss Ts 
fathers address  this had been  agreed  by Miss T. So he didnt  think  PSA had done  anything 
wrong.
Our investigator said that as payment wasnt received PSA had chosen to default the 
agreement but it hadnt acted incorrectly in doing  so. It also had an obligation to record the 
true reflection of the account with the credit reference agencies which was the payment 
hadnt been made.. 
Our investigator said that PSAs  offer to write  off the outstanding amount after reviewing the 
timeline of event was fair. He said that due to the lapse in time the default  recorded on     
Miss Ts credit file would be removed at the end of August 2019.
Miss T disagreed with our investigators view. She said shed been unaware of the 
outstanding invoice in 2013  so hadnt  requested the inspection report  at that time. However 
she had asked for it on several  occasions since but PSA had refused to provide it to her. 
She said she didnt  believe PSA had ever had the documentation to prove  that there was an 
outstanding charge on the account.  Miss T said she was legally entitled to the evidence that 
supported PSAs charging her an additional amount under the agreement.
Miss T said PSA hadnt taken reasonable steps  to liaise  with her before recording a default 
against her.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately there is very little evidence for me to look at save for PSAs  notes that it made  
on Miss Ts account. Miss T says her relationship  with her father is strained at present and 
so I also dont have  any evidence about what action  her father  took when the invoice was 
sent by PSA after the car was returned. 
Ive seen that the inspection report carried out on the car in 2013 is no longer  available  but 
due to the passage of time Im not surprised by that. A business doesnt have to keep its 
records indefinitely.
So looking  at what I do have, I can see that its agreed that Miss T signed a hire purchase 
agreement for a car that was to be used by her father.  Ive also seen that Miss T isnt 
disputing that shed requested all the paperwork for the car to be sent to her fathers address 
rather than hers. 
Miss T has questioned whether an inspection report on the car ever existed.  Im aware that 
having the car independently inspected when  its handed back at the end of an agreement  is 
Ref: DRN09112273the usual process.  And that under the terms and conditions if damage is found thats beyond 
fair wear and tear then the hirer is held responsible for any refurbishment costs.  
Ive seen from PSAs notes that an invoice was raised and sent out for £512.42 which was 
disputed. As Miss T says she was unaware of this invoice  I assume  this was sent to her 
fathers address  and it was he who queried  the amount. PSA offered to reduce the 
outstanding charge to £300 (plus  VAT).  
Where evidence is missing or contradictory  then I must decide what I think  is the most likely 
thing to have happened. In regards to the car being  inspected and a report  prepared then 
Im satisfied that its more  likely than not that the car was inspected and report prepared.  I 
dont think theres any advantage  to PSA if there  was no report  as any charge wouldve been 
successfully challenged  at the time. Im satisfied that the only reason this matter  ended up 
as a default was because, having  made its offer, PSA then heard nothing more  and no 
payment was received.
I cant reasonably say that PSA has acted  in error when  having received no response  and no 
payment it then proceeded to place  a default on Miss Ts account. Under the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Miss T was responsible for paying this invoice. 
Miss T says she made repeated requests for the paperwork. The notes  from PSA say that it 
received two queries from Miss T in October 2014  and December 2017  disputing that the 
account should have a default recorded  on it. PSA confirmed that it was the right account  
and the default had been recorded  correctly.  I dont have copies of any correspondence  as 
to what was said or what was asked  for at that time.
However, I think that as its more  likely  than not that the inspection report had already been 
provided (though it would  appear to have been  sent to Miss Ts fathers address) and so I 
dont have enough evidence to say that PSA has acted unfairly in its dealings  with Miss T.
The invoice remained unpaid and PSA had a duty to ensure accurate information was 
recorded on Miss Ts credit  file in respect of this account. It accurately recorded that a 
default had occurred.
PSA has reviewed this matter and offered to clear the outstanding balance  leaving Miss T 
with nothing to pay. I think  this is a fair resolution  to Miss Ts complaint and I wont be asking  
it do more. Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN09112274my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0911227