K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained that a car he acquired  under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. Hes also complained about the way 
Advantage Finance handled things  when he said he wanted to end the agreement. 
background
Mr M acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement  with Advantage Finance in 
March 2016 for £9,000. The car was around seven  years old and had covered around  
67,500 miles. Mr M says that there was a problem  with the cars brake servo within a few 
months of acquiring it. He arranged to have it fixed, but the problem  resurfaced  a few 
months later. Mr M complained to Advantage Finance and asked  if he could hand back  the 
car because  he didnt think it was safe to drive. He provided a note from his garage that 
indicated the faults were  there when he acquired  the car. Mr M also requested a refund of 
the repair costs  hed paid to get the car fixed. 
Advantage Finance arranged an independent  report to be carried out. At this point 
(March 2018), the car had covered around  91,000 miles. The report indicated  the problems 
with the car werent likely to have been  present  at the point of supply, so Advantage Finance 
didnt offer anything  to resolve the complaint  for Mr M. Unhappy  with its response, Mr M 
referred the complaint to our service. He also decided to end the agreement and voluntarily 
surrendered the car to Advantage Finance. He was left owing over £8,000.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt  uphold the complaint about the quality of the 
car. She noted  that when  the brake servo was first repaired  the car had covered around 
78,000 miles and, taking account of the independent  inspection,  she didnt think  it was likely 
the problems would  have been  present  at the point of supply. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said that other people had experienced the same issue as him. He 
provided some further evidence about a recall  on his car. And he complained about owing a 
large sum of money after he decided to hand it back. Our investigator asked the independent  
technician to comment on the recall, and he said he didnt think  the issue  described in the 
recall notice related  to the problems with Mr Ms car. So her view on the complaint about the 
quality of goods remained the same.
Our investigator also looked into what happened  when the agreement  ended and Mr M 
voluntarily surrendered the car. She didnt think that Advantage Finance provided Mr M with 
enough information on his options before  he chose  to do this. She said that if 
Advantage Finance had clearly presented Mr M with his options its likely he would have 
chosen to voluntarily terminate the agreement because he would have owed less. So to 
resolve the complaint she recommended Advantage Finance rework Mr Ms account  as if 
hed voluntarily terminated the agreement, and for it to update  his credit file to reflect  this. 
Advantage Finance said it did give Mr M all of his available options  but it accepted the 
investigators proposal. However, Mr M didnt accept it. He felt he would be left out of pocket, 
and he reiterated  that he didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality.
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN01773502my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
quality of goods
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated  hire purchase agreement.  Under this sort of 
agreement, Advantage Finance is the supplier of the goods.  This service is able to consider 
a complaint against it about their quality.  
Hire purchase agreements are covered by the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA). Under a 
hire purchase agreement,  there  are implied conditions that the goods supplied  will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In Mr Ms case, the car was used  with a cash price of £9,000  and had covered around 
67,500 when he acquired it, so Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand new 
car. 
The most recent problems  with the car, from what I can see, were:
Lack of braking assistance from the brake servo. 
Engine management light had come on. 
Oil pressure light had come on. 
A (possible) worn timing chain  and/or timing chain tensioner. 
I note that the car covered over 23,000 miles in two years since  Mr M acquired it. And it had 
covered around  10,000 miles in a year before the initial  problem with the brake servo. I can 
understand why Mr M is unhappy that there is another  issue  with the brake servo after 
having it repaired. But there  isnt enough evidence to show that the current  faults (nor the 
initial brake servo fault)  were likely there  at the point of supply. Whilst it is rare for a brake 
servo to fail, I dont think a car of this age and mileage would have covered 10,000 miles if it 
was faulty when Mr M acquired  it. Similarly, I dont think this car could  have covered over 
23,000 miles if the more  recent issues were there at the point of supply. 
Ive taken on board the comments Mr Ms garage have provided. But I also have to take 
account of the independent report, which is more  detailed, and I find it more  persuasive. The 
independent report  points out that there are things wrong with the car, but it concludes  that 
there isnt evidence to show  that they were  likely  there at the point of supply. It seems  that, 
on balance, the problems are down to wear and tear in accordance with the cars age and 
mileage. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr M has said about his car being subject to a recall.  Im 
satisfied that the current faults arent  linked  to the recall for the wiring harness to the heater 
motor. So I dont think the recall notice demonstrates the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
when Mr M acquired it. 
Ref: DRN01773503ending the agreement
Advantage Finance sent Mr M its final response on his complaint in March  2018. And Mr M 
asked to hand his car back the same  month.  He spoke  to Advantage Finance over the 
phone and sent in a letter indicating  he wanted  to terminate his agreement  on 
27 March 2018.  Had Mr M exercised his right to voluntarily terminate his agreement, his 
liability would have  been set at 50% of the total amount payable under the agreement, along 
with any arrears. So he would have owed around £1,600. The relevant legislation also says 
Advantage Finance would have been able to increase  the sum required to compensate  it if 
Mr M didnt  take reasonable care of the goods.
Advantage Finance says it sent Mr M a voluntary surrender form because  Mr M refused to 
repair the car. Mr M signed the voluntary surrender form, but his letter referred  to terminating 
the agreement. Im not persuaded he fully understood what  all his options were when he 
decided to hand his car back.  And I dont agree that Mr M had to repair the car in order to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement. The relevant  legislation says that Mr M could voluntarily  
terminate his hire purchase agreement  at any time.  
I agree  with our investigator that Advantage Finance  should have done more  to make sure 
that Mr M was aware of his options  and the implications of surrendering the car versus 
terminating the agreement. Had it done  so, it seems  likely that Mr M would have realised that 
hed owe significantly less by opting  to voluntarily  terminate  the agreement. Had 
Advantage Finance clearly presented Mr M with all his options,  on balance, I think  he would 
have chosen to voluntarily terminate his agreement.  So it seems fair that Advantage Finance 
rework his agreement and credit  file as if hed done so on 27 March  2018  the day it found 
out he wanted to terminate  the agreement.
Advantage Finance has let us know that it is adding on £575  to the settlement figure in 
relation to the repair costs. It obtained this figure  from the assessor  who carried out the 
independent inspection on the car. Mr M handed  back the car with various  issues  (that I 
dont consider were  there at the point of sale).  Therefore, I think  its fair that 
Advantage Finance has increased the sum required  in relation to the issues.  And I think  the 
amount its charging  seems fair in the circumstances. Mr M will be left owing around £2,200, 
which is significantly less than the £8,000 Advantage Finance is currently  asking him to pay. 
conclusions
Therefore, in respect of Mr Ms complaint about  the quality of the car, for the reasons given, I 
dont consider theres enough evidence to show  the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when 
Advantage Finance supplied it to Mr M. But I think Advantage  Finance should  have  done  
more to assist Mr M when he decided to hand back his car. So it should put Mr M in the 
position he would have been in had he voluntarily terminated his agreement. 
If Mr M chooses  to accept the final decision,  he may want  to contact Advantage Finance to 
come to a mutually agreeable arrangement for settling the debt. I remind  Advantage Finance  
of its obligation  to treat Mr M as a consumer in arrears fairly and with forbearance.
Ref: DRN01773504my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advantage Finance Limited should:
Rework Mr Ms account, and amend his credit  file as if hed voluntarily terminated the 
agreement on 27 March 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0177350