K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a mortgage with The Co-op in 1999. At the same time he bought  a PPI policy 
which would have covered his mortgage payments for up to 12 months  at a time if he 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mr M complains that he wasnt properly informed about the deferred period before benefit  
would be paid. He says he wouldnt have bought the policy  if hed understood this.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should  be upheld. Mr M disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr M doesnt dispute that he willingly bought the PPI and that he knew he had a choice 
about doing so. And The Co-op has provided  evidence to support this. 
Instead, Mr M complains that he wasnt given  information he needed about the PPI. He says 
this information  would  have made a difference about his decision to buy it. 
Mr M was made redundant in 2018. He contacted his insurer  to make  a redundancy claim on 
his PPI. Mr M says he was told it wouldnt pay out for six months. Mr M says that when the 
policy was sold to him that it would pay his mortgage after 60 days  of not working. And this 
seems to be the case, because The Co-op  has provided a policy schedule from when Mr M 
took it out that shows precisely this. Mr M says this is what he thought he was buying  and 
what he wanted. And I think he got exactly that. 
I dont know for sure what Mr M told his insurers  for him to receive that response.  I think  its 
likely that in addition  to Mr Ms redundancy payment he was also given payment in lieu of 
notice (PILON).  This is where Mr Ms employer chose not to make him work  his notice 
period and paid that salary in a lump sum in addition to his redundancy pay. If this was the 
case then the policy wouldnt  pay out during the notice period because Mr M was being paid 
for that period and was suffering no financial loss. This is a common,  if not universal, term in 
PPI policies. Once this period was up then the 60 day deferred period would begin.  
So I dont  think Mr M was worse off because of the exclusion of the PILON period. He still 
had the 60 day deferred period that he thought  he did and that he says he wanted when he 
took out the policy.
Ref: DRN03451082If I am wrong in my assumptions  about  this PILON period and Mr M thinks  the insurer  
incorrectly advised him or were wrong in declining a claim, then he should complain to them 
specifically about  this. If he doesnt  get a satisfactory answer then he can bring  a complaint 
about the claims decision to this service. 
Ive looked at the rest of the sale to see if theres any other  reason why it may have been 
mis-sold, but I dont  think there is.
Mr M was eligible for the policy and it was suitable for him. Mr M hasnt suggested  that it 
wasnt for any other reason than the deferred period. He wouldnt have been  affected by any 
terms which might have  made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such  as those 
related to self-employment  or existing medical  conditions. While Mr M would have received 
sick pay from his employer, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially 
for longer than his full sick pay would have  lasted. The cost of the policy was clearly 
disclosed and it could  have been cancelled at any time without financial penalty.  
So I dont  think Mr M lost out as a result of anything The Co-op might have done wrong.
Mr M has recently said that he hasnt cancelled  his policy in case it affected his complaint. 
Whether the policy is live or not makes no difference  to his complaint. So, if Mr M doesnt 
want the policy anymore  his complaint (or any future  complaint) will not be affected  if he 
cancels it now. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint so it follows that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc doesnt  have 
to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0345108