K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside  their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  mortgage  PPI policy  taken out in 1996.  There  
were two sole policies   one in each  of Mr and Mr Ss names - each providing a monthly 
benefit of £100 in the event that either  Mr or Mrs S couldnt work because  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policies would have paid out for up to 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs S paid monthly amounts for the policies. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and as it remains unresolved, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the PPI and Ill explain  why:
I think it is more  likely than not that Nationwide made Mr and Mrs S aware that the PPI 
was optional and they chose to have it. I say this because  the mortgage  was taken in 
1988 and the policies  werent taken until 1996 so its clear the PPI wasnt part of the 
initial sales process for the mortgage. 
There isnt any documentation I can consider  from the point of sale. But I dont find this 
surprising as it was over 20 years ago. So its hard for me to know  exactly what 
happened. 
In cases like this I have  to consider what I think was more likely  to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities. Ive also taken  into account what we know  of Nationwides sales 
process at the time. And because of this I cant safely say that Mr and Mrs S werent 
given an option.  Because  it is just as likely that they were given an option. 
Mr and Mrs S say the sales took place in a branch but Nationwide cant determine that 
from its records. But both parties  agree Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs S, so it didnt have to check if it was right for them. It was for them to decide 
to take the policies and looking  at their circumstances at the time I think they would have 
found it useful.  
Both Mr and Mrs S were  employed. Mrs S would have received six months pay if she 
wasnt able to work and Mr S would have received four weeks pay. Mr and Mrs S have 
Ref: DRN00427632told us they also had an income  protection policy in place  which would have paid out 
£400 per month if either of them was to become unemployed  and it would  have paid out 
for 12 months. 
But the PPI policies they had would have paid out over and above any employee 
benefits they would receive.  And the PPI policies would have paid out in the event of 
accident and sickness as well, and not just unemployment for which they say they had 
income protection cover . So I think its likely Mr and Mrs S would still have considered  
the PPI to have  been a useful benefit. 
I cant know how the policies were presented to Mr and Mrs S and its possible 
Nationwide could  have explained the cost better  than it did. But it looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So the PPI would have been  useful  for Mr and Mrs S if something went  
wrong. And so I dont  think better  information about  the costs would have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policies wouldnt cover   
a pre-existing medical condition as an example. But Mr and Mrs S dont appear to have 
been affected by any of those  things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including  what  theyve said about  the PPI 
not being suitable for them and having income protection in place. But having considered 
everything, I dont think Mr and Mrs S have been  mis-sold  the policies and it was their 
decision to have the PPI. So, all in all, I dont  think this complaint should succeed. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against  Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0042763