K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) blocked  his credit card while  
he was abroad.  Hes said this caused  him and his wife distress  and inconvenience during 
their holiday.  
background
Mr H travelled abroad in 2018 with his wife. Before he went, Mr H told Nationwide hed be 
away for a specific amount of time, and gave it the exact dates. He was clear that hed be 
using his credit card throughout the trip. 
On 17 September  2018, Mr H tried to use his credit  card but it was declined. He said that he 
received a text message from Nationwide asking  if the transaction  was genuine  to which 
he replied that it was. The block on the credit  card was then lifted.
Around half an hour later, the same  problem happened  his card was declined.  But this time 
its unclear what happened. Nationwide has said the system  failed  due to an invalid 
response, so the block remained. Mr H says he received a text message  asking  him to try 
again. Mr H said he tried to call Nationwide  but couldnt get through, the number he used  
didnt work.  The following  day, 18 September 2018,  he sent Nationwide  an email asking 
them to resolve  the situation, he marked his email as urgent. On 19 September 2018, Mr H 
sent a further  email  to try and rectify  the problem, again marked as urgent, and this time 
asking for a senior manager to respond. Without access to his credit card since  
17 September 2018, Mr H says he was using the limited amount of cash  hed taken with him 
for any expenses.  
Mr H spoke to Nationwide on 19 September 2018, he answered some security questions  
and his card was unblocked  allowing him to continue with his holiday.
When Mr H complained Nationwide apologised.  It acknowledged that while the block on his 
credit card was initiated to protect  him, its text messaging system was unsuccessful when 
the card was blocked a second  time. Regardless, Nationwide maintained that the block  was 
applied in-line  with its usual practice. Nationwide also said that after it had spoken to Mr H 
over the phone, there were  no further issues. But it did offer Mr H £100 in compensation to 
reflect some  errors it made  when  dealing with his complaint.  
Mr H has explained to our Service that when he travels abroad he has limited other means 
of accessing funds, and only takes  a small amount in cash. This is because  he and his wife 
were the unfortunate victims of a robbery on a previous  trip, so they are now hesitant to take 
large amounts of cash or numerous cards with them when they travel. 
An adjudicator here has already looked  at the case.  He said that he thought  Nationwides 
offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But Mr H didnt agree. He doesnt  think 
Nationwide shouldve blocked his account, and £100 isnt enough for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN04950522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr H that I think the adjudicator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why, but first, I think its 
important to say at the outset that this Service isnt here to punish or fine businesses for its 
mistakes. Thats the role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority.
I can appreciate how worrying the situation he and his wife found  themselves in wouldve 
been. They  were  in a foreign country  and, at times during the 48-hour period in question,  
had very limited access to funds.  But, having said that, Nationwide is entitled to take security 
measures to protect both itself and its customers. Mr H has said he understands this, but he 
feels Nationwide shouldnt  have imposed  a block on his account. Particularly over 
transactions involving small amounts and because hed told Nationwide  about his trip before  
he left.
Having checked  the terms and conditions  of Mr Hs credit  card,  Im satisfied Nationwide can 
impose restrictions to prevent suspected  fraud. As Ive said above, Nationwide will take 
measures to protect itself and its customers and this is what Id expect it to do. And, while I 
understand it might be frustrating for the card to be blocked twice in a short amount of time, I 
still think Nationwide acted in-line  with the terms and conditions of the account, and in the 
interest of safeguarding  Mr H and itself. 
Additionally, although Mr H has said hes made  this trip many times before, I think theres 
still a potential risk of his card being temporarily  restricted, regardless of the transaction  
amount or whether  Nationwide were  aware of his plans and the dates concerned. So, I dont 
think Nationwide did anything wrong  here when  it applied  temporary  blocks  to 
Mr Hs credit card. 
Although they seem  to disagree  on what the text message  said at the time of the second  
block, both parties appear to agree  that text messages were sent on both occasions.  But 
regardless of what the message  said,  the card didnt  work when Mr H tried to use it. And, as 
Ive said above,  Im satisfied Nationwide didnt  do anything wrong by applying  a block  on 
both occasions.
Ive been provided  with contact notes which show Mr H called Nationwide  two days after his 
card was blocked and the matter was resolved  he was then able to use his card without 
any further issues. Ive thought about this point carefully and, on balance,  I think  its 
reasonable to expect  someone in Mr Hs situation  to have called sooner to resolve the 
matter, particularly because he had limited other ways of paying for goods  and services.
 
Ref: DRN04950523Ive listened to the call Mr H had with Nationwides  security  team,  and things were sorted out 
quickly. So, if hed called  Nationwide  when  the card was blocked the second time, I think  its 
more likely that his card wouldve been  unblocked sooner than it was, and this wouldve 
reduced the impact  the block had on him.
 
Although Nationwide didnt respond to his emails  as quickly as Mr H wouldve liked, Ive 
seen it did reply on 20 September 2018,  so I dont  think it did anything wrong by responding 
within the two working-day  response time that it outlines for its secure messaging service.  
Nationwide accepts it couldve  handled Mr Hs complaint better than it did  there were some  
factual inaccuracies  in its correspondence to Mr H, which  meant he had to spend more time 
going back and forth in discussion. And I can see that the way Nationwide  dealt with his 
complaint caused  trouble and upset  for Mr H, on top of what  was clearly  an already 
distressing experience for him and his wife. Nationwide offered £100 in recognition  of this. 
And I think that offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  So I dont require 
Nationwide to do anything  more to put things right.  
It is very unfortunate that Mr H found  himself in this position. I dont doubt how stressful this 
experience was, and I understand why Mr H chooses to minimise  the amount of cash  and 
cards he takes with him. Even so, my decision brings to an end what  we  in trying to 
resolve his dispute  with Nationwide  can do for him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0495052