K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H says Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005. 
The policy was in Mr Hs name. It would have covered Mr and Mrs Hs monthly mortgage 
payments for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have  told us the PPI was strongly recommended, and this was seen as a 
step towards being accepted for the mortgage . Ive seen a copy of the mortgage Key 
Facts document that Santander gave Mr and Mrs H. It included a section about 
insurance, which stated clearly that they didnt need to take out any insurance with 
Alliance and Leicester. But they did have to take out buildings,  insurance. Mortgage 
Payment Cover was listed under a clear  heading  Optional Insurance. Ive also seen 
both the Mortgage Financial  Review that the mortgage adviser  completed  at the 
mortgage interview and the Statement of demands  and needs for mortgage related 
insurance products that was given to Mr and Mrs H. They  note that the adviser  
recommended accident, sickness and redundancy cover  for Mr H. And they note that the 
recommendation was accepted. 
Im satisfied that the mortgage adviser  discussed  Mr and Mrs Hs insurance needs with 
them and, having  done so, recommended the PPI cover in Mr and Mrs Hs name. I think 
it was clear from the documentation that the PPI was optional. And I think Mr and Mrs H 
chose to take it because they wanted  the cover that the policy  provided.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. That means  it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think the cover was suitable.  Mr and Mrs H have  told us that Mr H would have  
been entitled to less than three months  sick pay from his employer at the time.  And 
although they had some savings,  these were worth less than three months of Mr Hs pay. 
So I think Mr and Mrs H could  have struggled to pay their mortgage  quite quickly  if Mr H 
was off sick, or if he lost his job, especially as theyve told us that Mrs H wasnt working  
at the time. And I think the peace  of mind  that the PPI provided would have been 
important to them, given that the mortgage  was a long-term financial commitment,  
secured on their home.
Ref: DRN02725222The approximate  monthly cost of the policy was shown clearly on the Key facts 
document which was given to Mr and Mrs H at the mortgage interview. So I think  theyd 
have understood roughly how much theyd  need to pay for the policy  each month. 
Its possible Santander didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover  (for 
example, unusual employment arrangements or existing medical conditions). But based 
on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have been affected  by any of these.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including their comment that selling a 
mortgage protection policy  with other  policies  at the time of a mortgage  application amounts 
to pressure selling.  But Ive explained  above that Im satisfied that it was made clear to 
Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was optional.  I accept that the adviser recommended  the PPI, 
having discussed Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances with them. But pressure is a different 
matter, and I cant fairly conclude that pressure was put on Mr and Mrs H to take the policy,  
based purely on what they say. Having considered everything thats been provided, my 
conclusion remains that Mr and Mrs H made an informed decision to take the PPI, knowing 
that it was optional, because they wanted the peace of mind  that it offered.
Mr and Mrs H cancelled the policy in 2008  after an unemployment claim was rejected. They  
say that Mr H was told hed have to wait until hed been unemployed for six months before 
he could make a claim. And they say that this means that the policy was worthless to them. 
I can see from the records that Santanders provided that Mr H asked for a claim form in 
February 2008, and cancelled  the policy two months  later,  having had a claim rejected. 
Ive looked at the policy document  that was in force  when  Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI. It 
excludes cover for the first 30 days of unemployment. After  that, the monthly benefit is 
payable for up to 12 months.  Theres no mention  of a six-month waiting period. Im satisfied 
that the waiting period for unemployment claims was 30 days. And I dont think  that made 
the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H. I dont  know  why Mr H didnt manage to make  a 
successful claim  when  he lost his job in 2005. Our adjudicator suggested that Mr H might be 
able to make  a retrospective claim.  But whether or not that is possible, my view remains that 
the policy wasnt mis-sold. So Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs H, but I cant  fairly uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0272522