K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) to Mr B. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999 . Mr B applied  for the policy  
at the same  time as making  a postal application for a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
This is because the information Nationwide gave Mr B about the exclusions for pre-existing 
medical conditions  wasnt as clear as it should have been. I think  this would have mattered 
to Mr B because he had suffered from a life-long disability which had necessitated  surgery at 
various points in his life (and indeed some  year after the sale of the PPI led to significant 
surgery). I think, if hed fully understood the exclusion in the policy,  hed have  thought the 
PPI not worth the expense of the premiums. 
Nationwide has pointed  to the application  form that Mr B filled in. Nationwide  says the 
application prompted [Mr B] to refer to the enclosed information for details of the insurance.  
It says that the leaflet  explicitly states under the bold heading Payment Protection 
Insurance. What  are the main exclusions?, that no claim will be paid for accident and 
sickness [arising from pre-existing  conditions].  
I have looked  at the application form and leaflet. The application form required Mr B to tick a 
box against the statement:
I confirm that I want to protect  my card repayments against being  unable to work  and 
that I meet the eligibility criteria set out in the enclosed brochure
The leaflet itself was a short two page  one. On the first page was the heading Payment  
Protection Insurance. What are the main exclusions? Immediately below that it says:
No claim will be paid for accident sickness or unemployment
Arising from pregnancy, childbirth or any related  complication
Arising from intentional,  self-inflicted injury,  including the taking of alcohol or 
drugs
The next section  below  starts  no claim will be paid for unemployment and lists eight 
bullet points setting  out circumstances relating to matters such  as whether you knew  of the 
impending unemployment, were  to blame for the unemployment,  or have recently  been  off 
work. Its likely Mr B would have thought none of these were likely  to apply to him. 
Ref: DRN08901132It is only at the bottom of the page  that it says:
No claim will be paid for accident and sickness
Arising from any existing defect or chronic  or recurring disease or other condition 
which you were aware  of at the date your cover  started or which  you have 
suffered from in the 12 months  immediately before  cover commenced. 
I think there are a number  of faults with the form and leaflet which  make  it likely Mr B didnt  
understand what he was signing  up for. (Im assuming Mr B did get this leaflet  although 
that isnt a proved fact.)
The application form talks about ticking to say you meet the eligibility criteria. But the leaflet 
itself actually says nothing about  the eligibility  criteria. It is quite possible a customer would 
scan the leaflet  looking for this information and conclude that there is nothing relevant there. 
And the leaflet itself is set out oddly.  The first paragraph implies that the only exclusions for 
accident and sickness claims  relate  to pregnancy  and self-inflicted harm.  Mr B could quite 
reasonably have stopped  reading there and decided the exclusions didnt apply to him. And 
such an impression would  have  been reinforced  if hed ventured  into the next section  which 
sets out limits on unemployment claims that had nothing to do with his circumstances. 
And, if Mr B had reached the relevant paragraph at the bottom of the page, I cant be sure he 
would have understood it immediately. I think many people would have lost the meaning 
from such a complicated sentence. 
So my conclusion is that Mr B was mis-sold  this PPI.
fair compensation
Nationwide Building  Society should  put Mr B in the financial  position  hed be in now if he 
hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Nationwide Building Society should find out how much Mr B would have owed when he 
closed his credit  card account  if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  then refund the difference between what  Mr B owed 
when he closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Nationwide  Building Society can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes him.  
B.Nationwide Building Society should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mr B would have  owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets 
the refund. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Nationwide Building Society works  out what  Mr B would have owed each 
month without  PPI  Mr B paid more than enough to clear  his balance,  Nationwide  
Ref: DRN08901133Building Society should also pay simple interest  on the extra  Mr B paid. And it should  
carry on paying interest until the point when Mr B wouldve  owed Nationwide Building 
Society something on his credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Nationwide Building Society should tell Mr B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building  Society must give Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay Mr B compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0890113