K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc, (trading as Abbey National), mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection insurance,  (MPPI), policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs S took out the monthly-premium MPPI during a meeting in 2002,  at the same
time as they took out a joint mortgage. The policy only covered Mr S. Initially  the policy  cost 
around £35 a month. And following a successful  claim it would have paid out over £830 a 
month for up to 12 months if Mr S hadnt been  working because he was unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs S
disagreed the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  our general  approach  to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website. Ive taken  this into account in Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I have reached this decision because:
I think that Mr and Mrs S knew that the policy was optional  and that they chose to take it. 
I say is because of what  we know generally about the way Abbey sold its mortgages. In 
particular Mr and Mrs S would have had to complete a separate application for the 
insurance so showing  that it was a separate product. 
Further, the insurance could have been  taken out in Mr and Mrs S joint names and could 
also have covered accident and sickness. As it didnt do either  of these, I find that Abbey 
would had discussed the MPPI with Mr and Mrs S and made  it clear  that they had 
choices about  taking it. 
Also Mr and Mrs S signed mortgage application makes no mention of MPPI at all;
As Abbey recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S it had to take reasonable steps  to
ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I find that it was suitable because, knowing
what I do about the policy and their circumstances at the time:
oMr S was eligible  for the MPPI;
oMr S wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations - such  
as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN02532312oMr and Mrs S say that they had some savings. And Mr S was entitled to sick pay 
from his employer and income protection insurance. They havent mentioned any 
unemployment package that Mr S may have had. But I can see from his 
mortgage application that he had only been with his employer for a comparatively 
short time. Following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid in addition to 
Mr and Mrs S other means,  leaving  these  available to help with their other 
expenses while Mr S wasnt  in employment. These  payments would have  
continued for up to 12 months. So I think that the policy could have been of use 
to them;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar polices that 
were available in the market at the time and had a reasonable  benefit. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable  by Mr and 
Mrs S. In any event, because it was paid for monthly, had they later felt that they 
couldnt afford, or no longer wanted, the MPPI, they could have cancelled it at 
any time without further cost;
oMr S was the main  earner and had been with his employer for a shorter time than 
Mrs S had been with hers. So I dont think that the fact that the insurance only 
covered Mr S made  it unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S.
Its possible that Abbey didnt  give Mr and Mrs S all the information  about the MPPI that 
it ought to have so that they could  make a fully informed decision whether to take it or 
not. But as Ive concluded that it would have been of use to them  I dont think  that clearer  
information would have changed their minds and stopped them buying it. I reach this 
conclusion particularly  taking into account the possible  serious  consequences  of failing 
to keep up their mortgage repayments,  which were secured on their home, which could 
have arisen.
This means  I dont  think that Mr and Mrs S have  lost out because  of anything Abbey  may
have done wrong  or omitted to do during the sale. So theres  nothing  I require it to put
right.
my final decision
For the reason  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0253231