K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that First Payment Merchant Services Limited (FPMS) wouldnt cancel his 
terminal hire agreement unless he paid an early termination fee and charges.
background
Mr A entered into an agreement in October 2017 arranged through  FPMS to hire a card 
terminal for 48 months and for card processing  arrangements for his business. He says he 
contacted FPMS in May 2018 and October 2018  to cancel  these  contracts. He says it did not 
do so and wanted him to pay a termination  fee and a minimum monthly  charge to the end of 
the term.
Our investigator told FPMS that he couldnt  see it had any basis to apply the minimum 
monthly charge  over the term and which  was given as £720 in October  2018. It agreed  and 
said it would  not pursue  this. But he said that the hire agreement states that Mr A was liable 
to pay the remaining hire charges less five percent if the agreement was terminated  early. 
Mr A had not done so and the monthly  hire charges  of £34.79 had continued  to be due. In 
May 2018 FPMS had shown that Mr A had told it he had changed  his mind about cancelling 
the agreement  and had repaid arrears. And when he did not pay the termination fee in 
October 2018 the hire agreement had continued. 
Mr A did not agree.  He said that FPMS  does not have the right to require payment from him. 
He wanted us to arrange  for the balance to be cleared at FPMS. He was no longer operating  
his business.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked our investigator to contact  FPMS. I wanted to make  clear that I treated this complaint 
as partially upheld. That was based  on the error with the request for payment  of the monthly  
minimum charge to the end of the term of the agreement. And I also had some questions  
about what had happened and requested any further documentation about the terms of the 
agreements. 
FPMS did not provide  any more  documentation.  It told me that the termination charges might 
be reduced by more than the five per cent stated in the contract  but Mr A would need to 
return the terminal and equipment first. It said that the merchant processing account had 
already been closed.  FPMS did not agree with my intention to require  it to pay Mr A £100 for 
wrongly telling him that minimum monthly charges  would apply.
my assessment
Im going  to consider the terminal hire agreement first. Mr A entered into this agreement  with 
a minimum term of 48 months. There are no cancellation rights before the end of the term. 
But if the agreement  is terminated (under Section 6) he is liable to pay all future  terminal  hire 
payments for the minimum term less five percent.  In October 2018 he was told that this 
amount was £1,222.80. Clause 6.4 of the agreement says that if he returns  the terminal and 
equipment in good condition a further reduction might be considered.  But that is something 
that is at the discretion of FPMS.
Ref: DRN00244482As set out above in October  2018 Mr A was also told he needed  to pay it £720  as a 
minimum monthly charge  for his account.  He was still being  asked  to pay the equivalent sum 
in May 2019  after this complaint had been referred  to this service.  Our investigator 
established with FPMS that there was no basis for this charge. And FPMS has said Mr A 
had also arranged to close  the merchant processing  account in line with its email guidance 
about this to him in October 2018.
I remain of the view that wrongly telling Mr A he needed to pay a further £720 in addition to 
what was already a significant termination figure has caused him needless distress and 
inconvenience. But I dont  think that if hed known the correct  position it would have made 
any difference to whether or not he paid the termination fee which he still disagrees with. Im 
also satisfied that he changed his mind  about  ending the hire agreement in May 2018 and 
that it has not been terminated since October  2018 as he has not paid the charge.
I understand FPMS position about  paying compensation for its error. But having considered 
that I still dont agree  and so I will be requiring  it to pay Mr A £100 in compensation. But Im 
afraid I dont have a basis to order it to do anything further regarding  the termination  
charges. These are due from Mr A and thats  whether  or not he is still operating his 
business. I would encourage him as requested  by FPMS  to return  the terminal and 
equipment for a consideration of whether the amount  still owing can be reduced.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require First Payment Services  
Limited to:
1)Remove as it has now done  any requirement for Mr A to make  a minimum monthly 
charge.
2)Pay, not credit, Mr A with £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0024448