K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains that TSB Bank Plc will not refund payments she did not authorise from her 
bank account.
background
Ms T says that her partner took nearly  £15,000 from her account.  She explains that in 
December 2016  she was in hospital  for a few days.  Ms T accepts she gave her partner  her 
debit card and PIN to make withdrawals on her behalf. But she says that from February to 
May 2017 he made a large number of transactions with that card that she did not authorise.  
She also says that TSB had sent her a letter in January 2017 to her previous address about 
her online banking being suspended. Her partner hid this letter from her. This letter disclosed 
her username and in April 2017  he managed to gain access  to her online banking account  
and send payments  totalling £250.  
He was arrested  and was charged with theft. Ms T says that TSB did not do enough to 
protect her from what happened and ought to have  recognised that the pattern of 
transactions was suspicious. And she says TSB did not have sufficient security processes in 
place when her online  banking account was accessed.
TSBs position is that Ms Ts partner  had her card and PIN number with her consent. And 
she had acted with gross negligence in allowing this. He has also been able to find out her 
log on details for online  banking. TSB says it had followed its security procedures  when 
payments were made  and did not think these  should have been identified as unusual. It paid 
Ms T £25 for poor service  in a branch when she raised this matter but did not agree it should  
be liable  for her loss.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-Ms T had an arrangement with her partner  to allow him to withdraw  cash and carry 
out household spending. But he had abused her trust.
-Unfortunately Ms T had given him the means  to do so. And Ms T was required under 
the terms and conditions of her account to keep  her card and PIN safe. She didnt do 
that and, as a result,  TSB could reasonably hold her liable for all the payments.
-TSB had shown that when her access to online banking was reinstated  in April 2017 
security codes had been  sent to the mobile phone number  it had for Ms T. Those 
codes were correctly input alongside  other personal information when payments 
were made.
-Although Ms T said that TSB had allowed more than the maximum withdrawal  of 
cash of £300 per day allowed, she could not see that was the case.  Any fees would  
be in addition to the £300 and, on one occasion, payments over a weekend were  all 
shown on the next working  day.
Ms T, who is represented  in this complaint, did not agree. Her representative said that her 
ex-partner had been convicted of theft from her and received a prison sentence; that Ms T 
had now provided  a list of the transactions she disputed showing  that these escalated  in total 
value each month; that TSB had a duty of care to check these were genuine or suspend  her 
account; that it had allowed more than £300  in cash withdrawals on 2 May 2017;  and had 
sent Ms T a letter about her suspended online account that gave her partner easy access.  
Ref: DRN01805532Ultimately, she said there was a lack of security at TSB and these crimes could have been 
prevented. 
So as Ms T did not agree the case was passed to an ombudsman to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009. The relevant things I 
will be considering are:
-Whether Ms T authorised these payments - and that she would generally not be 
responsible for payments that were unauthorised.
-If she didnt authorise  them, can TSB demonstrate  that Ms T acted with gross 
negligence in the way she treated her card and personal security information?
-Whats fair and reasonable, and did TSB act with reasonable skill and care in 
keeping Ms Ts accounts safe - or should  it have  done anything  more?
were the payments authorised?
There are two parts to consider about  this. The first is whether the payments were 
authenticated. And its not in dispute  here that a number of payments were made with Ms Ts 
card and the correct  PIN. And that access to online banking was made  with the correct  
security information. 
But that does  not address the second part, which is whether Ms T consented to the 
payments being  made.
Our adjudicators set out that Ms T did give her partner her card and PIN so he could make 
transactions on her behalf. The list of payments shes given to this service shows she only 
made two card payments herself during  this period. There is an issue  in deciding when her 
partner was acting  with her consent for say normal household spending, and when he was 
going far beyond  this and withdrawing  money that Ms T did not agree he could. The point is 
that TSB wouldnt be able to distinguish between these payments  and could have said as a 
result it considered them all to be authorised.
However, in a final response to Ms Ts complaint  it accepts that there were unauthorised 
payments. And I note that her partner has been  convicted of theft - which means that a court  
had decided he took money  from her without her authority. So my finding on the evidence 
here is that he made a substantial number of unauthorised payments. 
did Ms T act with gross  negligence?
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think  it fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that the use of gross negligence, rather  than mere negligence, 
suggests a lack of care,  that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence.
Under the terms and conditions  of her account  Ms T was required by TSB to keep both her 
card and PIN and her mobile  device,  computer and security details for using internet banking  
safe and secure. I think those were reasonable requirements. She did not do so and she at 
Ref: DRN01805533times willingly allowed her card and PIN to be used by someone  else. And the only likely 
way that her partner could  have logged onto online banking with her security details is if hed 
observed Ms T entering them or shed  written them down. He also had free access  to her 
mobile phone.
Im afraid I dont think Ms T took reasonable care of her card, PIN and security details. And I 
find that TSB has established  this went beyond mere carelessness.  She reasonably knew 
her partner had the ability  to access what  was a significant amount of money in her bank 
account. And she did not seem to make  any checks  herself  on her bank account during  the 
period. 
whats fair and reasonable
TSB is entitled to establish its own processes to confirm transactions  are genuine and to 
identify where they might  not be. As far as it was concerned here, payments were made with 
the genuine card and correct PIN. And it was not aware of Ms Ts domestic  circumstances. 
Although it had sent out a letter with Ms Ts username for her online account, that in itself 
was not sufficient for someone to access her account. Further security  information was 
required, which Ms Ts ex-partner had. TSB also had no reason  to think  that the phone to 
which it sent secure codes to set up payments was not in Ms Ts possession.  Or that her 
other security credentials had been  disclosed to someone else.
Ive looked closely  at the cash withdrawals  on 2 May 2017 which Ms Ts representative says 
were over £300. I dont  believe thats  right. Cash withdrawals  are marked  CPT on her 
statement and were  not over £300.  There was a payment for £51.65 thats  been  referred  to, 
but this is marked  DEB meaning that this was a debit card payment. A transaction on 
another day with that same retailer was marked CPT. So I dont see that the withdrawal 
limit was exceeded on 2 May 2017,  or on any other date, based on the evidence.
I appreciate that Ms T thinks that TSB ought  to have recognised  an escalating pattern of 
activity on her account. And that its comment that such activity was also seen in 2016 is not 
a fair one. I understand Ms Ts points about the type of activity in 2016 being different. But 
even taking that into account,  I still dont  find I have a reasonable basis  to say that TSB 
ought to have done anything more  or that I think that this would have likely made a 
difference. 
Ms T, as I say, had permitted someone  else to have free access  to her account and had total 
trust in him. And he was able to respond to requests for security  codes and even  to activate 
her online account  after it had been  suspended. TSB had no reason to think Ms T was 
vulnerable to financial abuse.  These were a series of generally  relatively  small individual  
payments over an extended  period  of time amongst, it seems, genuine payments. And they 
did not trigger any of TSBs other fraud prevention  measures. 
Im very sorry to hear that Ms T was the victim of theft by her partner. He is responsible for 
her substantial loss and has been held accountable  by the court.  But Im looking specifically 
here at whether TSB bears any responsibility for that loss and whether, as Ms T says, it 
should have done more  to have prevented it. 
Having looked  at this closely, Im afraid  that Im not persuaded I have a reasonable basis to 
find that it should refund any of this money  to Ms T.
Ref: DRN01805534my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0180553