K820x#14complaint
Mr B says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy with a mortgage he had some years  ago.
background and summary to complaint
It seems  neither Mr B, nor HSBC, can provide much detail about this sale due to it being so 
long ago; very few original  documents are available from either party. Ive therefore relied on 
some of HSBCs  computerised  records and also Mr Bs general recollections when thinking  
about what happened. Ive also made  some  reasonable assumptions about  the PPI and the 
policy rules,  based  on my experience.
Mr B bought the PPI policy in late 2001 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. Its likely  
he applied  for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch or over the telephone and the PPI 
covered him against accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £600 a month towards Mr Bs mortgage balance in the event of 
a successful claim. At the time, it cost around £35 a month. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a lithographer. I think he would have been entitled to 
moderate sick pay with this job, but its not entirely clear  how much. In respect of his health,  
he told us hed had a sore back in the late 1980s  and ulcerous colitis in 1994. Whilst Im sure 
these would have  been important issues at the time for Mr B, I dont  think they affect  the 
outcome of this complaint in any way and I explain a bit more about them later.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  Mr 
Bs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN06801372The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
We know the credit agreement itself concluded before 6 April 2008. That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs case.  
Ref: DRN06801373 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. As Ive said,  theres very little 
information left; for example theres  few point of sale documents  to refer to. 
However, given this was all back in 2001  that isnt either  unusual,  or indeed, unreasonable. 
Businesses arent required to keep  records  indefinitely, but my general experience of these 
types of sale is that Mr B would have probably been  given a choice and probably  needed to 
Ref: DRN06801374make a selection on his mortgage application about whether he wanted mortgage protection. 
I also think hed have  needed to set up a direct debit to pay the monthly PPI premiums. The 
records imply he also cancelled the policy after it had been up and running  for a few months, 
in August 2002 - this indicates to me that he knew he could do so if he wished.
I do accept we cant say for sure that all these things happened, but on balance, I think  its 
more likely they did. Taking everything  into account,  I think  its more likely  that Mr B knew  
the policy was optional and he agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
We know little about the sale but I think it was probably an advised one where  the PPI was 
recommended to Mr B by an adviser  who knew about his overall circumstances. This means 
HSBC had to advise Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr B. It seems Mr B cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Bs 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr B would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to show me HSBC considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical conditions 
and we do know of similar sales which were occasionally lacking in this area.
So overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded  HSBC  did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr B given his circumstances. Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
However, while Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration these probabilities:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Bs ability to continue to meet  
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not working  for 
an extended period of time  even  allowing for any moderate work-related benefits or 
savings he would  have been  entitled  to. 
-Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the monthly  cost of the PPI wasnt  affordable for him.
-The exclusions and limitations I think were present in the policy rules probably didnt 
make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B. There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment or 
occupation which would have made  it difficult for him to claim. And the previous 
medical conditions  Mr B has told us about  preceded the PPI sale by some years. Ive 
seen nothing that suggests  these  conditions would  have changed his opinion about 
the value of having this type of cover because all the indications  are they were 
Ref: DRN06801375successfully dealt with. There  were also no additional restrictions  on cover for mental 
health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim, 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr Bs circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what HSBC was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr B was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr B agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B Im not persuaded HSBC did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr B all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
Ref: DRN06801376think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. In those circumstances it seems  to me that, whether or not Mr B suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if HSBC  had explained  things 
properly, Mr B would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the exclusions may not have been as 
clear as it should have  been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, I cannot say HSBC told him the exact  premium at the point Mr B applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr B would  have  been  told the cost before the 
policy started, so if the costs were  significantly  at odds  with his expectations at the point of 
sale, its possible he might have raised that with HSBC at the time, or reconsidered his 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy. In addition, Im 
Ref: DRN06801377not persuaded HSBC made  clear  exactly what Mr B would get back in return in the event he 
made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Bs expectations about what the policy 
would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage payment) was 
significantly different to what the policy  actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that 
the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would  have expected as there 
was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating  to medical conditions  that Mr B knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  out the policy. 
However, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Its possible Mr B may have had a pre-existing medical condition as defined by the policy 
rules, but I dont think the medical conditions he mentioned  to us would have been ones  by 
the year 2001   where he would have  thought  he might have been at risk of needing to take 
extended time off work for. Therefore, I dont think these would have put him off taking the 
PPI cover out, even  if he had been better informed about the medical  exclusions in the first 
place. He was also in permanent employment. So overall,  I think  he had good  reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr B was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN06801378HSBC may not have  told Mr B that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but he 
didnt have many other means to fall back  on, in my view. 
Ive considered whats been said about  him having redundancy pay, but this too would  have 
been very moderate as he hadnt been employed  in his job for that long.  And whilst Ive been 
told he may have had savings, I was given no evidence of these and, as were talking about 
so long ago, I cant place much weight on this. 
In all those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr B would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to him and would  help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr B be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr B was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr B 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. Even if I am ultimately departing 
from the guidance for firms set out at DISP  App 3 (which  I dont  consider  I am), I am only 
doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would  represent  fair compensation to 
put Mr B in the position he would have  been  in if he had not bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN06801379That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that HSBC had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0680137