K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled  things after they 
made it aware that they were victims of a scam. 
They have been represented throughout this complaint but for simplicitys sake, Ive only 
referred to Mr and Mrs B in the text of this decision.
Background
In October  2018, Mr and Mrs B were the victims of a scam. They transferred £1,850 in two 
separate payments to an individual who claimed he would reserve them a holiday villa. 
This individual had appeared to be a legitimate,  but Mr and Mrs B became suspicious. After  
searching online, they found references to other  people being  scammed by the same 
individual. Once  they realised that they mustve fallen victim to the same  scam, they 
contacted Barclays.  This happened on 21 December  2018.
Mr and Mrs B have  described a lengthy list of customer service difficulties they experienced 
when pursuing  the complaint with Barclays  including  Barclays inaccurately recording 
details of the person who had perpetrated  the scam, spelling names incorrectly on 
correspondence, failing to return phone calls having promised to do so and so on.
Barclays agreed that it had handled things badly and offered Mr and Mrs B £300 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience that this had caused. However, it said it 
wouldnt refund  the payments made to the scammer because theyd been made voluntarily. 
It also said that it had done all it could to recover Mr and Mrs Bs money from the account it 
had been paid into. 
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with the response from Barclays and so contacted  this service. 
Their complaint was looked at by an investigator  who didnt uphold it. The investigator said 
these payments wouldnt have appeared suspicious from Barclays  perspective  and so it 
wouldnt have had any basis for questioning Mr and Mrs B about them  further to ensure  that 
they werent being scammed. The investigator also said that Barclays had done all it could  to 
help recover the funds.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with the investigators  opinion. They said that it wasnt clear  
whether Barclays had been chasing the correct  business in an attempt to recover  their 
money  it had been unclear whether it had been  chasing the owner  of the account  or a 
third-party business that provided it with payment processing services. Because  Mr and 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Ref: DRN00928272In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  But that is not the whole the story:
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
regulated firms  like Barclays are also required  to conduct their business with due
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); and
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs B when they carried out these transfers to a fraudster and when he reported 
the fraud,  or whether it should have done more than it did. Ive considered this carefully and I 
agree with the investigator that Barclays couldnt reasonably have  been  expected  to identify 
that Mr and Mrs B were at risk of being scammed. Ill explain why.
Did Barclays act fairly and reasonably in this case?
According to Barclays system notes,  the first payment was flagged  up as being  suspicious. It 
was larger  than other transfers made  from the same account and it was being  made  to a 
new payee. Barclays contacted the customers to ask them  whether  they were  happy for the 
payment to go through. Barclays couldve questioned Mr and Mrs B further at this point but, I 
think its unlikely this wouldve enabled  it to identify any risk of fraud  because  Mr and Mrs B 
were able to offer a legitimate explanation  for who the payment was being made to.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that, when Barclays became aware that theyd been  defrauded,  it 
started chasing the wrong receiving bank  to recover the money  theyd lost. However,  I dont 
think thats what happened here.  The bank  account  that belonged to the fraudster was held 
Ref: DRN00928273with a specific business that Barclays needed  to contact try and recover the money  that had 
been transferred  to the fraudster. 
However, that business had an arrangement with a separate business to use its systems to 
allow it to send and receive bank transfers. In order for that to work, it uses  sort codes that 
are reserved in the payments system for its partner  business. All of the information Barclays  
had at the time it became  aware of the scam (the account number and sort code) wouldve 
suggested the account was held with the partner business, not with the actual business that 
provided the account to the fraudster.  
From the evidence Ive seen, the correct business  became aware  of the fraudulent payments 
sent to its customer on 27 December 2018. This was six days  after Mr and Mrs B had 
reported it to Barclays  - so it is possible that this confusion did cause a delay. But even if 
Barclays had been able to contact the correct receiving bank on 21 December, I dont  think it 
wouldve made a difference.  The receiving bank provided us with information about the 
fraudsters account  that showed that there was no money left in it at the point Mr and Mrs B 
told Barclays about what had happened  so even if it had been  able to act a few days  
earlier, it wouldnt have made any difference here.
I agree  with Mr and Mrs B that the service theyve received from Barclays has been poor. By 
its own admission, Barclays didnt handle things well, including  a number of administrative 
errors and not returning calls to Mr and Mrs B when it had promised to do so. I dont think  
any of this had any impact on whether Barclays couldve stopped the fraud or recovered  the 
money they lost, but it was clearly a source  of unnecessary distress  and inconvenience  for 
Mr and Mrs B. Barclays has offered to pay them £300 in recognition of this and I think thats 
a fair sum in the circumstances.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0092827