K821x#15complaint
Miss L is complaining that a car supplied by Go Car Credit Limited  (GCC) through a hire 
purchase agreement  wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
In August  2018  Miss L entered  into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a car. A few days 
later she contacted GCC to say the car had a number of faults  and she wanted to reject  it. In 
particular she said there were issues with the tracking, a door seal had fallen off and parts  of 
a sun visor  were missing.  GCC said that she had to take the car to a garage to have it 
inspected. Miss L says that she reluctantly did so. The garage then carried  out repairs and 
the car was returned to her. GCC paid for these repairs to be done.
Around a week  later Miss L contacted  GCC again  to say that she was still having issues with 
the tracking as she said the car was veering to the side. She also said a further issue  with 
the wing mirror had transpired and there was an issue with the suspension. And she said 
she still wanted to reject the car. Because of this, GCC  arranged for an independent  
company to inspect  it.
The engineer concluded that there  was evidence  the car had previously been involved in an 
accident. But he said that there was no evidence of structural damage and therefore  would 
not impinge on vehicle being  unfit for its intended purpose of daily use.
The engineer also concluded that there  wasnt anything to show an issue with the tracking. 
And he also said that the wing mirror  was operating correctly. 
Given this, GCC didnt  think  Miss L could reject  the car. Miss L didnt agree with the 
independent engineers findings and referred her complaint to this service.  
Miss L later said further faults had arisen with the car  and she said that the engine  warning  
light had come on. And in December 2018,  Miss L paid £448 to have further repairs done on 
the car and for it to have  a full service. 
I issued a provisional decision in October  2019 upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Miss L acquired the car under  a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider,  GCC is responsible for 
the quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Miss L is unhappy with the quality of 
the car and wants to reject it. The issue I have to decide is whether there  is a fault with the 
car that made it of unsatisfactory quality when  it was supplied.
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. In this case,  Miss L paid around 
£6,900 for the car. The car was around six years old and had travelled 52,000  miles at the 
point of supply.  
The issue  here is whether  there were problems with the car that were present or developing 
at the time of sale, as opposed  to natural  and inevitable wear and tear in a used  car. Ive 
Ref: DRN01938542also considered  whether  a reasonable person would expect  the problems Miss L has 
experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short, is the car sufficiently durable. 
It seems  that within a few days of acquiring  the car, Miss L complained  there were issues 
with the tracking,  a door seal had fallen  off and parts of a sun visor were  missing. And she 
said she wanted to exercise her right to reject  the car. The CRA gives  a consumer the right 
to reject a car within the first 30 days of a contract where they can show  theres a fault with it 
that makes the car of unsatisfactory quality.  So its not enough to show  that theres a fault 
with the car to be allowed  to reject it, but Miss L also has to show  that fault made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Miss L asked to reject the car within a few days of receiving it. But GCC said she wasnt  able 
to do so and had to take the car to the garage  to be inspected, which  I dont think was 
reasonable. The garage carried  out the repairs to the car, but around  a week  later Miss L 
complained that the car still had issues with the tracking.  She also raised  further issues,  
particularly in respect to the suspension.
GCC arranged for an independent inspection  to be carried  out, which concluded that the 
vehicle has sustained some frontal  damage including  past misalignment of the LF door and 
wing resulting in wing and door edge  damage  from opening contact. The front bumper is not 
fully secure with under shields missing and the RF wing arch shield broken with some  
distortion to the lower front panel. And the engineer concluded that the car had previously  
been involved in an accident and was poorly  repaired.
But the engineer also concluded that there was no evidence of structural  damage and 
therefore would not impinge on vehicle  being  unfit for its intended purpose of daily use. 
There is no obvious evidence of tracking issues and no appreciable uneven tyre wear.
So while I accept that there was poor previous accident damage,  the engineer has said that 
these issues are different  to the issues Miss L had raised. And I think he has, in effect, 
concluded that the issues Miss L initially raised had been fixed. I also note that the 
adjudicator spoke with the repairing garage Miss L instructed who also confirmed that they 
considered the issues to have been  repaired.  Finally, I can see that Miss L told us in 
December 2018  that shed paid to have the issues fixed. So Im satisfied that the initial  
issues, Miss L raised have been  fixed.
That said,  while I acknowledge the accident  damage isnt linked to the issues Miss L initially  
raised, Miss L did complain that there were faults with the car within the first 30 days of 
receiving it. I note GCC says that Miss L hadnt  shown that there was a fault with the car 
when she first asked to reject it. But I dont  think thats fair. Shed told GCC there were 
issues with the car and I think GCC should  have taken steps to diagnose the problems when 
she reported them. Had it done so, they would have been discovered within 30 days.  Miss L 
asked to reject the car within the first 30 days and, had GCC done  what  it should have done,  
she would  have been able to reject  the car at that point. It follows that she wouldnt have had 
the problems she later had. 
GCC has highlighted that the independent  report has said that, while  there were these faults, 
they wouldnt stop the car from being  fit for its intended purpose of daily use. I dont dispute  
that. But the engineer clearly concluded that there were  other  issues arising  from a previous 
accident with the car that were present when Miss L acquired it. The issue  is whether these 
issues made the car of unsatisfactory quality  i.e. would a reasonable person think  its 
reasonable to see these  issues  on the car, given its age, price  and mileage. Miss Ls car was 
Ref: DRN01938543around six years old and had travelled around 52,000 miles when she acquired it. So I think  
Miss L needed to reasonably expect some  wear and tear.
The issues  with the car arent down to wear  and tear, but poor repair  following an accident. 
While these issues are separate to the issues Miss L initially raised,  there are faults with the 
car. And I dont think a reasonable person would expect to see these faults on the car, given 
its age and mileage  at the point of sale and the amount she paid for it. And I think  this means 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when she acquired it. 
Under the CRA Miss L has the right to ask GCC to fix the car but if that repair  is 
unsuccessful, she has the right to reject it. Its important to note that the CRA gives  one right 
to repair  the car, not a separate right to repair for each  individual fault. Repairs have  already  
been carried out on the car on the faults Miss L initially raised  which appear to have resolved 
those issues. But there are still issues with it which make it of unsatisfactory  quality  which 
were highlighted by the independent report. The CRA allows  Miss L to ask to reject  the car 
and I think thats  also fair in the circumstances of this complaint. So, given what I said above, 
I think GCC should have  allowed  Miss L to reject  the car after it received the independent 
report.
So I said that I thought GCC should  do the following to put things right:
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think GCC should have allowed Miss L to reject the car 
after it received  the independent inspection report in October 2018. And I still think she 
should be allowed  to reject it. The adjudicator thought that GCC should refund all the 
payments Miss L made to the finance  since September  2018.  But she has been able to use 
the car for some of this time. The repair invoice from December 2018 shows that Miss L had 
driven a further  700 miles since the independent  inspection in October 2018, which is 
consistent with the usage  she had with the car before  this report. So Im not persuaded she 
had a reduced usage of the car until December 2018. And I think she should  pay her 
contractual repayments up to December 2018.
However, I understand that Miss L stopped using the car in December 2018  as shed lost 
faith in it. And given  whats happened, I can understand why she did that. I note the car is 
currently declared SORN and Im persuaded by what shes told me that she hasnt used it 
since December 2018. I accept that shes had possession of the car during this time. But it 
should also be noted that Miss L should have been allowed to reject  the car within  the first 
30 days of the agreement and again  following  the independent report in October 2018. So I 
dont think she should have to pay anything towards the car since December 2018.
I can also see that she had to pay £448 for some repairs to the car in December 2018.  And I 
dont think she would  have had to do this, if the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to her. I note that part of this was to service the car. But I dont think she would 
have had to pay to service it had she been allowed to reject  it. So I think  GCC should refund 
this too.
So, in summary,  I think GCC should do the following to settle  this complaint:
1.Allow Miss L to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to Miss L;
2.Cancel the agreement and arrange for any adverse markers to be removed from Miss 
Ls credit  file;
3.Miss L should only be required to pay the finance payments up to December 2018. GCC 
should refund any monthly payments Miss L made since this time*.  But if Miss L hasnt 
Ref: DRN01938544made all the payments up to December 2018,  she should pay this to GCC. But GCC 
can offset this against any money that it may owe her.
4.Refund the £448 Miss L incurred in having  repairs done in December 2018*; and
5.Pay £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused  
Miss L.
*GCC should add 8% simple interest  per year to these  payments from the date she paid 
them until she gets them  back. If GCC thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss L a tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision to reject  it in part. Neither party disputed 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of sale,  but they disputed  when it was 
last used. 
Miss L didnt  think it was fair that I said shed have  to pay for the finance up to 
December 2018  as she said she wasn't using  the car apart  from to take it to the garage. And 
she said shed only made one payment so she said she will owe GCC money.
GCC said that the data from the car shows that Miss L continued to use the car until 
16 January 2019.  So it thinks she should  have to pay the finance payments  up to this point. 
I also understand that GCC has collected Miss Ls car since I issued my provisional decision.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disputed  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, I see 
no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So 
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional  decision.
However, Im satisfied that the data GCC has provided shows  that she was using the car on 
a regular basis. And I also think that this was more than taking it to the garage for repairs. 
The data shows that she travelled over 300 miles in the car in the first two weeks of 
January 2019.  And Miss L hasnt given me anything to say that this data is incorrect.  So Im 
satisfied that she had fair usage of it during that time. And I think  Miss L should have to pay 
the finance payments up to January 2019.
I note Miss L says its unfair that shell owe GCC money. But I still think  its fair that she 
should pay the finance for the time she used it.
what GCC should  do to put things right
I think GCC should do the following to settle this complaint:
1.Allow Miss L to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to Miss L if it hasnt  
already done so;
2.Cancel the agreement and arrange for any adverse markers to be removed from 
Miss Ls credit  file;
Ref: DRN019385453.Miss L should only be required to pay the finance payments up to January 2019. GCC 
should refund any monthly payments Miss L made since this time*.  But if Miss L hasnt 
made all the payments up to January 2019,  she should  pay this to GCC. But GCC can 
offset this against any money that it may owe her.
4.Refund the £448 Miss L incurred in having  repairs done in December 2018*; and
5.Pay £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused  
Miss L.
*GCC should add 8% simple interest  per year to these  payments from the date she paid 
them until she gets them  back. If GCC thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss L a tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
If Miss L owes  GCC money, which I understand is likely to be the case,  GCC should  arrange 
a suitable repayment plan if shes unable  to pay the amount  payable  immediately. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Go Car Credit  Limited to settle  this complaint in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0193854