K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Valour Finance Limited  (trading as Savvy.co.uk 'Savvy') provided him 
with a loan that was unaffordable.
Background
Savvy lent Mr M £750 on 14 January 2015. This loan was due to be repaid in 12 monthly 
instalments and was settled on 29 November 2015.
Mr M says that at the time of the loan he was struggling financially and was borrowing to 
make his repayments on other debts and to pay for his living costs. He says the loan made  
his situation worse and that had Savvy checked  his credit file it would have realised the loan 
shouldn't have been provided. At the time he says he was borrowing from multiple short  term 
lenders as well as having an overdraft  and credit card debts.
Savvy says that it carried out a range of checks,  in line with the regulatory  guidance, before 
providing the loan.  It says it validated Mr M's monthly income as £2,230 and discussed his 
expenses with him. It says it was entitled to rely on the information provided and that it also 
carried out a credit check which didn't raise concerns. It says based on the information  
gathered Mr M's monthly disposable  income  was sufficient to cover the loan repayments.
Savvy says that the credit agreement clearly set out the interest, fees and total amounts 
repayable.
Our adjudicator thought that the loan shouldn't have been provided. He said that had 
proportionate checks been carried out Savvy  would  have  realised  that Mr M was having 
problems managing his money.  He said Mr M had a number of other short term loans 
outstanding at the time and he thought Savvy should have realised that Mr M wouldn't  be 
able to sustainably  repay this loan.
Savvy didn't accept our adjudicator's view. It said that the credit check didn't show anything  
that would  have required further  questions  to be asked. It did not think  that it was required in 
this case to ask for copies  of Mr M's bank statements.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
the credit  agreement clearly set out the costs associated with the loan and the total 
amount repayable;
Savvy gathered  information on Mr M's income  and expenses  and carried  out a credit 
check which I thought  constituted proportionate  checks given this was Mr M's first 
loan;;
the credit  file from January 2015 wasnt provided  but instead  Savvy  provided the file 
from January 2016 when Savvy  has said Mr M applied  for another loan but this was 
declined;
Savvy had said Mr M was paying around  £866  towards his debts.  Having looked  
through the 2016  credit report,  Mr M had a number of active  credit cards  at the time 
Ref: DRN02729652of the loan as well as other debts. Without further information I didnt find that I could 
say that Savvy's  assessment that Mr M was paying  around £866 payment towards 
these was unreasonable;
the information gathered about Mr M's income and expenditure at the time of the loan 
suggested it was affordable.
Overall, I found that the checks carried out by Savvy were reasonable in this case. As these 
suggested the loan repayments  were affordable I didnt find that I had enough  to say this 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision. He didnt agree that sufficient checks  had been  
carried out before the loan was provided.  He reiterated that he had numerous  debts  
outstanding at the time and provided  further  details  of these.  He said that had Savvy  carried 
out reasonable checks it wouldnt  have  lent to him.
Mr M said that although the credit agreement set out the payments required Savvy  still had a 
responsibility to ensure  the repayments  were affordable for him. He said that lending to him 
wasnt sustainable as he was borrowing increasing amounts each month and that his credit 
file clearly showed this. Mr M provided copies of his credit file and also his bank statements 
which he said also showed  the severity of his situation.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out 
proportionate checks to make sure that Mr M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income  and expenditure.
In this case Savvy gathered evidence of Mr Ms income which showed a monthly income of 
around £2,230.  On a call, information about  Mr Ms expenses was discussed. I find these 
checks were reasonable to understand Mr Ms income and expenses. Savvy  also undertook 
a credit check. As I mentioned in my provisional  decision I only have the details of the 2016 
credit check  so I cannot say what information  was available in the 2015 check however I 
note Savvy included credit commitments  of £866 alongside his living costs. 
Mr M has provided a copy of a more  recent  credit  report  and his bank statements. While I 
understand the point Mr M is making  about his other debts I have to consider whether the 
information gathered  at the time of his loan application was proportionate and whether it 
raised concerns  which meant further checks should  have taken place. In this case  the 
monthly repayments of £125 were relatively  small compared to his monthly  income and the 
information gathered  at the time about  his expenses  including  other  credit  commitments 
suggested the loan was affordable.
So, while I understand the points  Mr M has raised  and accept he is not happy  with my 
decision, I find that the checks carried  out at the time of the loan were  sufficient.  As these 
Ref: DRN02729653didnt raise concerns  that I think should have  meant  further checks should have taken place I 
find that it was reasonable for Savvy to rely on the information it gathered and not ask for 
further information such as bank statements.
As the checks carried out suggested the loan repayments were  affordable  I do not find that I 
can say the loan shouldnt have been provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0272965