K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs N had a mortgage.  In 2005,  they took advice  from L&G.  As a result they re-
mortgaged to another lender. They also consolidated some unsecured  debt.
Theyre now represented by a claims management  company  (CMC).  The CMC says the 
mortgage advice  was unsuitable.  It says they shouldnt have been advised to move lender or 
consolidate their debts, especially as they paid an early repayment charge (ERC) to their 
existing lender. And it says L&G over-charged them. It recommended adding  the cost of wills 
advice to the mortgage and told them they had to use a particular solicitor.
L&G didnt agree the mortgage was unsuitable.  It said Mr and Mrs N had substantial  
unsecured debts and needed to reduce their outgoings, which  the consolidation achieved. It 
said theyd been  advised to wait a year until the ERC period expired. But they insisted on 
going ahead. It said they didnt purchase  a will. But it has since  offered to refund commission  
the broker received  from the solicitor it recommended, together  with £100 compensation, 
which the CMC has now accepted.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint, so the CMC  asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the fact find L&G completed  in 2005 to try and understand Mr and Mrs Ns 
circumstances. The CMC says it underestimates  their net income, but according to their 
payslips from the time I dont think it does. And as I have no other  evidence  of their finances  
at the time, I accept  it as being broadly accurate.
The fact find shows that Mr and Mrs N had large  unsecured debts. They  had eight credit  
cards, with balances totalling around £30,000.  A couple of the cards were  on introductory  
0% interest rates, but the others werent.  Mr and Mrs N were paying around £1,100 each 
month in credit card payments alone. While they could have reduced those payments, doing 
so would have  significantly increased  the interest they paid and the time taken to clear the 
balances. They also had £36,000 outstanding  on four personal  loans  and credit  agreements,  
costing around £950  per month. This meant  they were paying  rather  more  than their 
mortgage payments  towards their unsecured debt each month.   
Together with the mortgage, their debts were  costing them almost £3,000 per month to 
service. Their other recorded  expenditure left them with no surplus each month  and they 
had been using overdrafts. Consolidating the debts into the mortgage reduced their 
repayments from £3,000 to £1,750.  Given the state of their finances at the time, I dont think 
this was unsuitable advice. Although it secured their unsecured debt against the property, 
and meant  it would take longer to pay off, it significantly reduced their monthly outgoings  
which I think was their priority and their need  at the time.
Ref: DRN02080742This conclusion is supported by the declaration they signed at the time. It acknowledges that 
L&G advised  them  to wait until the ERC expired before re-mortgaging  expenditure  was 
tight but manageable so that was possible.  But Mr and Mrs N insisted against that advice on 
going ahead despite doing so meaning theyd  pay the ERC. 
The CMC says they could have approached their existing  lender instead. That may be true, 
but theres no certainty their existing lender would have given them  a further  advance. And if 
L&G had recommended and arranged a further  advance, it would still have charged for its 
services. And a further advance on their existing mortgage wouldnt have  changed their 
mortgage from part interest only to repayment   which was recorded as another of their 
priorities in another  signed note.
Taking all that into account,  I think the advice to re-mortgage and consolidate debt was 
suitable. And I think Mr and Mrs N were advised not to incur  the ERC,  but insisted on doing 
so anyway. So I dont  uphold the complaint about the suitability of the mortgage L&G 
arranged for them.
Theres no evidence on L&Gs file that Mr and Mrs N purchased  wills advice with any of the 
mortgage funds,  and the CMC hasnt provided  any evidence  otherwise. The instruction to 
pay a wills advice fee is crossed out on the authorisation form. On balance,  I dont think they 
did take or pay for wills advice at that time. The other fees they paid are set out on the 
authorisation form. 
While other  brokers may have charged  lower fees,  L&G clearly  set out the charges  for their 
services and Mr and Mrs N agreed  to pay them in return for the mortgage advice. So I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint either. This mortgage didnt include free legal advice as an 
incentive  and while others  may have done, this was the overall  the cheapest mortgage 
available. I note the CMC has accepted L&Gs offer in respect of the solicitors  commission, 
and I dont think L&G is required to take any further steps to settle this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I think the offer Legal & General  Partnership  Services Limited has 
made to settle  this complaint is fair and reasonable and I dont require it to take any further  
action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0208074