K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS).
background
Mr S took out a mortgage with YBS in 1998,  but took out the PPI when he later applied  for a 
further advance   this was in June 2003. YBS said the PPI was sold during a meeting, and 
that it didnt advise Mr S to take the policy. Mr S thought the policy  had been  recommended  
for him. Mr S said he wasnt  given a choice about taking the PPI. 
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr S at a monthly cost 
of £9.66, after an initial period of six months  where the PPI was free of charge.  The monthly 
benefit was £200 (it looks though this covered  the whole mortgage payment, not just the 
payment on the further advance). If Mr S had made  a successful claim, the policy couldve 
paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS sent in copies of the further advance application form and offer, the PPI quote and 
application form and screenshots of its records of Mr Ss mortgage. It looks  as though the 
further advance  application was completed  in a branch  of YBS,  and YBS said that the PPI 
quote and application form wouldve been  handed out at the same time. I think  thats 
probably right.
As the sale took place in a meeting, I cant know how the YBS representative  explained the 
PPI. But Mr S had been able to take his original mortgage without PPI, and theres nothing  
on the further advance application form  or offer  to say that he had to have PPI when he 
applied for the additional  borrowing. He also had to fill out a separate  application form for the 
PPI. Taking  all of this into account,  I think its most  likely he had a choice about taking the 
PPI and decided  to do so. 
YBS and Mr S disagree about  whether  the PPI was recommended for Mr S. But this doesnt 
affect my decision, because even if I treat this as an advised sale  which holds  YBS to a 
higher standard  I think it wouldve been  a reasonable recommendation to make. 
I cant know how the YBS representative explained  the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr S wouldve been  affected by any of these. 
Mr S told us he wouldve  been entitled to sick pay from his employer of two weeks  full pay 
followed by two weeks half pay. And he said he had no savings he couldve relied  on if he 
Ref: DRN08271382couldnt work. So I think Mr S couldve found  it difficult to meet the mortgage payments quite 
quickly if he was off sick or lost his job. And Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event  of a successful claim. It looks  as though the PPI quote was 
given to Mr S at the meeting,  and this shows the monthly cost of the PPI, so I think he would 
reasonably have understood what hed have to pay. Ive no evidence to suggest that cost 
was an issue. And I think Mr S could reasonably have wanted to protect an important 
commitment. 
On balance, although I cant know whether YBS clearly  explained  all of the policy  details, I 
think Mr S would still have bought  the policy. It couldve provided useful protection if he 
couldnt work. This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. Which  means  YBS doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But YBS will pay back  some  of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr S because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr S, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr S the extra  he paid each month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr S 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0827138