K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to Mr F. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  Barclays sold Mr F the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr F disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr F and his representatives have said, but Ive decided  the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Barclays made Mr F aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take 
it  although I can understand  if he can no longer remember this. I can see that the 
form which Mr F signed has a section where  you either tick yes or no to say 
whether you want PPI. There is a handwritten tick against yes. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr F, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. The PPI could have helped  
pay the credit card bill if he lost his job or fell sick and wasnt able to work  hes said 
he didnt have employer sick pay benefits. It would have meant  Mr F wouldnt need to 
fall back on other  resources (which hes said was help from relatives) so soon.  So the 
PPI was potentially  useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant  see 
any other reason  why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave  Mr F about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
But I dont think, in his circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr F about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mr F, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN01957602To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it has not already  made the payment:
Barclays has to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays  should  also pay back  to Mr F any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr F the difference  
between what Mr F owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should  also pay 
Mr F 8%* simple  interest (15% before April 1993) if he paid off their credit card at 
some point.
(*Businesses  have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr F can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.)
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0195760