K822xcomplaint
Mrs L complains  about the recommendation of a Personal Investment Plan to her and her 
late husband by Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
background 
Mr and Mrs L were  advised to start the plan in 2006 with £75,000. At the time they were both 
retired, in their 70s and 60s respectively and had money on deposit as a result  of downsizing 
their property. 
The investment commenced in September  2006 and paid a quarterly income through  to its 
surrender in August 2018. A one-off £10,000 withdrawal was also taken  in 2011. Mr L sadly 
passed away in 2014 and following the surrender of the plan in 2018 Mrs L made a 
complaint to Halifax about its suitability. 
Halifax concluded that it hadnt  been  a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L. On 
reflection, it felt theyd  been in a relatively comfortable financial position  in 2006 and hadnt 
really needed  to take on the level of risk associated with the managed  fund into which  their 
money was invested.  Halifax wasnt sure Mr and Mrs L wouldve appreciated the level of risk 
to which  the investment exposed their underlying capital.
Halifax calculated what Mrs Ls financial position would now be if the money had instead 
been committed to no-risk  fixed rate bonds,  using this services usual benchmark. This 
showed that thered not been any loss, so no compensation was due in this respect. Halifax 
also offered to meet any tax liability that Mrs L might incur as a result of the 2018  surrender 
of the plan. Finally,  after further comment from Mrs L it offered her £250  for the trouble and 
upset the matter wouldve caused.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with this as she felt the high degree of worry created for her and Mr L 
wasnt reflected in the offer.  She referred  the matter  to this service,  but our investigator felt 
the offer was a fair one so he didnt recommend that Halifax do any more.  
As Mrs L remained  unhappy, the matters been  referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Halifax has accepted  that the advice  provided  to Mr and Mrs L in 2006 was unsuitable it 
only remains for me to decide what represents fair compensation. 
The calculation Halifax has carried out is the same as I wouldve recommended in the 
circumstances given  that it seems it wouldve been more  suitable for Mr and Mrs L to have 
left their money in a no-risk environment.
I appreciate it can appear a little odd that an incorrect recommendation is not necessarily 
compensated for. But the nature of investment means that sometimes  although an 
investment is wrong  unsuitable  it nevertheless performs well; better than a more  
suitable alternative wouldve done. That is the case here.
Ref: DRN09066362Halifax has also confirmed that it will meet any tax liability Mrs L has incurred as a result of 
the surrender  of the plan,  which strikes me as fair in the circumstances. I note there has also 
been some  discussion  of the gain incurred on the withdrawal of £10,000 in 2011 but I 
understand Mrs L has confirmed that there  was no tax liability  incurred  at that point.  
Finally, there is the issue of compensating Mrs L for the trouble and upset caused  by the 
advice. Ive noted her comments  about  Mr Ls health issues at the time of the advice and 
after and I appreciate this will have been  a difficult time for her. But in all the circumstances, 
while I recognise Mrs L will be disappointed,  I do feel that the £250 offered by Halifax  is fair. 
She and Mr L continued to receive  income throughout the period during which the money 
was invested.  And while it may have been worrying to see the capital sum reduce  ultimately, 
as noted, Halifaxs  calculation has shown that no overall loss was incurred.
I note also what Mrs L has said about the fact that she is now receiving a lower  level of 
income as a result of surrendering the unsuitable  bond. But that is a result  of moving the 
money into a more suitable lower-risk environment. The higher level of income previously 
achieved with the recommended plan was only possible because the investment exposed  
her capital to greater risk, at a level that Halifax didnt think was really suitable. 
Mrs L could choose  to take a greater risk with her money now to try and achieve  a higher 
level of income, but that would have to be her informed choice after seeking  professional  
advice and would have to be weighed up against  the risk of loss of the underlying capital.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, in the sense that 
I consider Bank of Scotland  plcs offer to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0906636