K820x#14complaint
Mrs B said she tried to withdraw £500  from a cash machine,  but the machine didnt dispense 
the money. She complained because Nationwide Building Society debited her account,  even  
though she reported she hadnt had the money.
 
background
On 19 March 2018, Mrs B went to an ATM outside a non-Nationwide bank. She tried to 
withdraw £500 cash, which she wanted to pay her rent and bills. Mrs B said that she took her 
card but the money didnt come  out. Mrs B went inside the bank, and told them  what had 
happened. They advised her to ring Nationwide, which  she did the same day.
Nationwide told Mrs B that £500  was shown as having been debited to her account, but it 
said its ATM  claim team would investigate.  
Nationwides ATM claim team obtained  evidence from the journal roll of the ATM.  This 
showed Mrs B had put her card into the machine at 16:49, and it also recorded that £500 
had been dispensed 36 seconds  later.  There had been no errors  with the machine, and it 
had balanced  correctly. So there  hadnt  been any money which the machine had failed to 
dispense. Nationwides  team also asked for any CCTV evidence,  but there  wasnt  any. 
Nationwide wouldnt refund Mrs B. 
Mrs B complained, but Nationwide  didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She set out what had happened,  and 
explained that the evidence from the machine showed that the money had been dispensed, 
and the machine had balanced.  Mrs B was still unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs B is upset about  this incident.  But I have to look at the evidence I 
have. Ive been provided with the machine record of Mrs Bs transaction  on 19 March 2018.  
This shows that she put her card into the machine at 16:49:01, and records  that it dispensed 
money at 16:49:37. The notes dispensed  are listed as 6 x £10 notes and 22 x £20 notes, 
which totals £500.
Ive also seen the ATM claim  reply  to Nationwides ATM dispute team. This records  that the 
ATM didnt have any faults and that it balanced. 
So its not open to me to find that the machine didnt dispense  Mrs Bs money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN00342362Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0034236