K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC unfairly  treated him when he lost his account 
card.
background
Mr H says he used an ATM  on 1 December 2018 in order  to get a statement. He says the 
ATM was unable to provide him with the statement and he realised some time later he had 
lost his account card. Mr H says the account  card was destroyed too soon by Barclays and 
that he didnt receive  a call or message about the card despite Barclays saying it did try and 
contact him. He says he was unable to access his money for four days as the new card 
didnt arrive on the day he was told it would. Mr H says he was told he could return to a 
branch with identification to withdraw  money without the card but says he would have  felt 
uneasy about carrying a large amount of money.
Barclays looked into matters and says its provided feedback to the branch about the 
problems in obtaining a statement from the ATM. Its also apologised  about  destroying the 
card and accepts it could have waited longer to do so. Barclays has paid £180 compensation 
for whats happened which it says is the amount Mr H asked for.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and says he has been discriminated against. Our 
investigator came to the conclusion that Barclays had dealt fairly with the complaint and had 
paid a fair amount of compensation. The investigator thought  Barclays had fairly accepted  it 
could have dealt  with Mr Hs complaint  in a more appropriate way but didnt think it was 
reasonable to have  expected it to pay Mr H compensation equivalent to the account balance  
at the time of about £191. The investigator didnt think  Mr H had suffered any financial loss 
as a result  of what happened and could have withdrawn money  with identification or used 
another account. The investigator also didnt think there was any evidence of discrimination 
and that Mr H hadnt withdrawn his money  when he received the new account card.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says the compensation  should reflect  the balance  in the 
account. He says Barclays actions in December  2018 were inconsistent  with a similar 
problem that took place  in 2019 and he would  like that investigated. Mr H says its not 
possible to say if he would have needed to access his money when he was without  his 
account card and that Barclays  hasnt provided an explanation for why it destroyed his card 
and why it says it sent him a message about  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened. But I make  it 
clear to Mr H that we are not the regulator  of Barclays and its not our role to carry  out an 
investigation into what happened or punish  a business for any mistakes.
There is no real dispute  here that Mr H lost his account card and that Barclays  then 
destroyed it. I can see that Barclays accepts it should have held onto the card for a longer 
period. So Im satisfied  that as a result  Mr H was caused inconvenience  in having to wait for 
a new account  card. But Im also satisfied that Barclays tried to help Mr H by making what  I 
think was a fair and reasonable   offer to allow  him to withdraw money from the account  with 
Ref: DRN04850372proof of identity. I appreciate Mr H didnt want to carry a large amount of money with him but 
I think if he needed money then he could have  withdrawn  the money he needed.
Im satisfied that Barclays has apologised for what happened and paid what I think is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation of £180. Ive not seen any evidence  that Mr H 
suffered any financial  loss as a result of what happened.  And whilst I appreciate Mr H says 
he could have urgently needed money after his card was destroyed, I dont think that was 
the case. And I can see from Mr Hs account statements that he maintained a balance  in his 
account after he received the new card. I think that compensation offer fairly reflects  the 
level of Barclays mistake  and the impact  it had upon Mr H. I also think  that Mr H had access 
to other  accounts at this time and I dont think the compensation should mirror the account 
balance but rather  the level of mistake  and the impact  it had. Of course Mr H may have had 
a much smaller  or larger balance and I dont think  it fair to apply that approach.
I appreciate Mr H says Barclays actions are inconsistent with what took place in 2019. But I 
make clear  to Mr H that Im only looking  at his complaint about the events  of December 
2018. And in any event,  for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Barclays  accepts making 
a mistake and so thats why its paid compensation. I also appreciate Mr H would like to 
know why his card was destroyed and why he didnt receive a message from Barclays.  But I 
have explained  that our role is not to investigate why something happened and I dont think  it 
matters as I think the important point  is that Barclays accepts it shouldnt have destroyed the 
card as soon as it did.
Im also satisfied that Barclays has provided feedback to its staff about the problems  Mr H 
experienced in obtaining  an account statement.
Overall Im satisfied Barclays has fairly  apologised  for what  happened and has paid a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation. So for those reasons I cant fairly  order it to pay 
any further compensation or do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive 
also not seen  any evidence that Mr H has been discriminated against
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0485037