K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained Nationwide Building  Society wont  refund money  taken from his 
account.
background
In October  2017 Mr J contacted his bank having lost his debit card and been a victim  of 
fraud. He believed a cash  machine transaction had been carried  out on 14 October for £250 
which hed not made.  He explained to Nationwide when he knew hed last used his card. 
Nationwide didnt think it was fair to refund £250 to Mr J. They explained  theyd refunded 
£528.20 in May and £750 in July 2017  after Mr J had been a fraud victim in quite similar 
circumstances. They declined his claim as there  was no evidence  how Mr Js PIN had been 
compromised. Nationwide also decided to close Mr Js account. 
Mr J was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service. He also 
told us hed reported this to the police and had contacted the retailer where the £250 had 
been withdrawn.  Their  CCTV  evidence had shown the person who withdrew the cash was 
wearing a hoodie.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence. He felt there was no logical explanation how 
someone got hold of Mr Js PIN as the last time it had been used was days before 
14 October. Because of this, he couldnt  ask Nationwide to refund Mr J.
Mr J didnt agree with this and wanted  an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  a different 
conclusion to our adjudicator. Ill explain  why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent when looking after their card 
and PIN. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly  in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transaction  itself 
and the history of Mr Js account.
Ive reviewed the evidence Nationwide provided to us. This included the information they 
held for the disputed  transaction.  This shows it was made at 21:43 on 14 October with the 
genuine card and PIN being used. The correct PIN was input straightaway.  Nationwide has 
not been able to supply  any other  detail about  the transaction.
This matches what Mr J found  out himself about  the transaction, when he tracked down the 
CCTV evidence. Although Ive not seen this evidence myself, I see no reason to doubt  what I 
Ref: DRN05165142was told by both Mr J and his father that the person  taking out the cash wore a hoodie, 
meaning that nobody could  tell who it was.
Based on the fact this evidence was sought, suggests to me Mr J knew  it wasnt going to be 
him. This could be a clever bluff but would involve quite a lot of self-possession  to seek  out 
this information  if there  was any chance  it was going to be him. So I can confirm  that I dont 
think Mr J made the £250 withdrawal himself. That does leave the issue, however, of 
whether he allowed the transaction to be made.
Mr J used his debit  card on 14 October at college for a contactless transaction. He believes 
he lost his card very shortly afterwards but doesnt know  definitively. He noticed whilst  
logging onto his account that £250 had been withdrawn when he properly realised his card 
was missing.
Mr J cant explain  how someone would have  known his PIN. What  I can tell is that the last 
time his PIN was used was nearly a week before the transaction hed made on 14 October 
himself. I cant explain  how someone  else knew Mr Js PIN either but its not my role to find 
out who made the transaction but rather whether Mr J was involved.
Its certainly true that Mr J had made two previous claims for fraudulent  transactions. These 
had happened  in May and July. On both occasions  withdrawals of £250 (and in multiples of 
£250) were  made  from Mr Js account, as had happened  on 14 October.  From looking at 
Mr Js statement,  I can see he didnt often take out this much when withdrawing cash.
Over the preceding year and including this instance, I can see Nationwide re-issued five 
cards to Mr J. This seems  quite  a lot. But during that period Mr J never changed his PIN. I 
can also find no evidence Nationwide ever tried to explain to Mr J  after the two other 
fraudulent sets of transactions  that he should  do this (and try to take better care of his 
debit card).
I think there are a number  of different scenarios  which could explain what was going on 
here. On balance I think it is possible that Mr J may have known who had pinched his card 
and used it. Certainly the fraudulent usage fits the pattern of someone who may be known to 
the victim rather than someone just trying to empty  the account as quickly  as possible. It is 
feasible that person would have been able to get Mr Js PIN without too much difficulty. I 
think thats what happened.
Unfortunately Ive not been able to speak to Mr J myself to get a better  handle  on what  
happened but if he had done  it or allowed this to happen himself,  Im not sure why hed have 
kept going for so long to get his complaint properly dealt with.
Overall I dont believe theres enough evidence to show Mr J authorised  the fraudulent 
transaction to take place.  
As I intended to come  to a different conclusion to our adjudicator,  Ive already been in touch 
with Nationwide  to lay out some of my reasoning and ask them  whether theyd be willing  to 
settle this complaint. They declined even though I found the information about the CCTV 
evidence persuasive.
Ive also considered that Nationwide  believe Mr J has been careless. Having been a victim of 
fraud previously, hed not taken sufficient  steps to protect his card and PIN. They  also 
Ref: DRN05165143believe his regular losing of debit cards points  to this. Nationwide point out their terms and 
conditions make their customers responsible for taking care of their account.  I accept  this.
But I cant see Nationwide ever provided  Mr J with specific advice about account security  or 
took him to task for his carelessness with their cards. Ive also reminded Nationwide that the 
test for gross  negligence is a high bar to get over. And Ive seen nothing here which 
suggests Mr J meet  this.
I have no issue with Nationwide  deciding they no longer  wanted  Mr J as their customer. I can 
see why as hed have been  costing  them  a bit in replacement cards. But that doesnt mean I 
think it was fair of them to reject his claim for a disputed transaction.
Im satisfied theres enough evidence to show Mr J didnt make or authorise this transaction 
himself. On this basis Nationwide is required to refund  him, along with 8% simple interest per 
year whilst he has been without that money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Nationwide Building Society to:
Refund £250 to Mr J for the cash machine transaction  he didnt make on 14 October 
2017; and
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from 14 October 2017 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0516514