K820x#14complaint
Mrs W have complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc will not refund any of the 
commission it received from her MPPI premiums for the policy that she took out in 2011 to 
cover her mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mrs Ws complaint about commission. Thats  
because as my colleague  has explained,  Mrs W complained too late for her mis-sale 
complaint to be considered  Mrs W accepted  this, and asked us to consider her complaint 
about commission.
Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  MPPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the 
MPPI policy  more than 50% of the MPPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then 
that could create an unfair relationship  between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses  should pay back the amount  of commission and profit  share that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  Act 
on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. As Mrs Ws mortgage was taken out in 2011,  
it was a regulated  mortgage, so it wasnt under the scope of the Consumer Credit  Act or the 
FCAs relevant rules and guidance. So RBS doesnt  need to refund any of the commission  
Mrs W paid for the MPPI they had with their mortgage
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0852343