K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mrs A says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs A says that she wasnt aware  PPI had been added  to her credit  card  and that she 
would never have agreed to it given the choice. But I think  BoS made it clear that Mrs A 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  Mrs A applied for her card and PPI policy through  the post  and BoS 
has provided a copy  of her application form. On this I can see that the PPI is presented  
as optional  tow equally prominent choices,  to take or decline the cover are presented. 
Mrs A has signed her name to select the policy.  This is separate to her signature for the 
credit card. Mrs A has then signed  the application, agreeing  to the information on it. 
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs A got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs A about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said  but these points dont change my decision,  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Ref: DRN04911292The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs A any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0491129