K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited  has treated them  unfairly 
since it took over their debt from another  company  when they found themselves in financial 
difficulties. In particular  they complain because  its increased the debt significantly and hasnt 
communicated with them properly.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out an unsecured loan of just over £8,000  including  more than £900 
premium for payment protection insurance  in 1997 over a ten year term. Shortly afterwards, 
they found themselves in financial difficulties initially due to redundancy, so they struggled to 
make their payments. At some  point before Link took over the debt, the loan was defaulted 
and Mr and Mrs J entered into a repayment  plan with the lender. In 2004, the debt was sold 
to Link with an outstanding balance of £9,775.41  after the original lender added over £4,000  
in interest in a lump  sum to the loan before selling it on.
When it took over the debt Link immediately applied a further lump sum of £5,159.82 in 
interest and, since then, its applied £3,713.74 more in interest to the account. Because  of 
their financial  difficulties  which have  lasted since Mr J became redundant very soon after the 
loan was taken  out, Mr and Mrs J have only been  paying £10 a month off their debt since  
2004. They  said they didnt get any statements  from Link about their loan so they didnt know  
what their outstanding balance was and werent  aware of the added  interest.  In 2017, Link 
contacted them about missed payments. When they looked into it, they could  show  the 
payments had been made, but when they found  out their balance was over £16,500, Mr and 
Mrs J complained to Link about  the increase in their debt and the lack of communication.  
Link rejected their complaint. So they came  to this service. Our adjudicator  thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  because  she didnt think Link had treated Mr and Mrs J 
positively and sympathetically. But Link argued  it was entitled to add interest to the loan in 
the way it had done so it asked for review by an ombudsman. I thought the complaint should 
be upheld but felt the redress  needed to be changed  so I issued a provisional  decision 
explaining my reasoning.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mrs J accepted my provisional  
decision and Link didnt  respond so the reasoning  set out in my provisional decision remains 
largely unchanged.
Link took over Mr and Mrs Js debt in 2004 when they were already struggling  to keep up the 
payments on their original  loan and were in a repayment plan. Businesses are obliged  to 
treat people positively  and sympathetically when they find themselves in financial difficulties 
regardless of the terms of their loan.  But Link added  interest to the loan up-front without 
finding out about Mr and Mrs Js financial situation  which meant the amount owed increased 
immediately making  it much harder for Mr and Mrs J to manage.  It doesnt appear that Link 
told Mr and Mrs J it had done this and I cant see any evidence it checked at all with Mr and 
Mrs J since 2004 to find out about  their financial situation to see if the repayment plan was 
still appropriate. With their monthly payments at £10 since late 2004, the debt couldnt be 
paid off within their lifetimes. A review of their account from December 2018 indicates that 
the last payment due to pay off the debt would be in 2155  that is 158 years after they took 
Ref: DRN06052112out the loan that was meant to be paid off over ten years. I understand theyve recently  
managed to increase the monthly payments slightly but there is still no prospect of the loan 
being paid off in their lifetimes and their financial situation remains  uncertain for the 
foreseeable future.
Mr and Mrs J only found out about the increased interest on their balance  almost 14 years 
after the debt was transferred. This was because of an administrative error  on Links part 
when it thought they hadnt made the monthly  payments. It seems that, as long as they were 
making the monthly payments,  Link didnt try to engage with Mr and Mrs J to help them 
address their financial problems. A repayment plan should aim to help people  over a short  
period of financial difficulty. But in this case the arrangement  appears  to have been open 
ended. There  were no apparent review dates and no mechanism for providing  Mr and Mrs J 
with updates or checking on their financial situation.  Given Mr and Mrs Js circumstances 
having suffered  for many years from health  problems which they tell us restricted their ability 
to work and considering their age, theres no realistic chance the debt will ever be paid off.
In the particularly difficult circumstances of this case, I dont find this is fair and reasonable 
for the reasons outlined above.  Link hasnt treated Mr and Mrs J positively and 
sympathetically or tried to support them to find a way to deal with their debt in their financial 
difficulties. Therefore I think the complaint  should  be upheld. This complaint is against Link 
therefore I havent considered the way Mr and Mrs J were  treated by the original provider. 
Mr and Mrs J have been making payments towards their debt for over 20 years now 
including 15 years of payments  to Link, yet the balance is now double the original loan. 
Theres no realistic prospect of the debt being  paid off due to the front-loading of the interest 
and the limited payments they tell us they are able to make towards it. In the circumstances, 
its very difficult  to unravel  the loan to get a picture of what wouldve happened if Link had 
treated them  fairly, therefore I find that Link should write off the outstanding  balance to put 
things right as far as possible.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld. To put 
things right, Link Financial  Outsourcing Limited should write off the outstanding balance on 
Mr and Mrs Js loan. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr and Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0605211