K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. didn't pay his guaranteed asset protection  (GAP) insurance  claim.
background
Mr C bought a car using  a finance  agreement and also took out a GAP policy. Some years  
later his car was stolen  and deemed  a total loss. He claimed on his GAP policy to cover the 
outstanding balance on his finance  after his motor insurer  had settled the claim for the loss 
of his car. Mapfre turned down his claim. It said that his GAP policy  had lapsed.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 October 2019.  For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
As well as complaining  about Mapfre Im aware  that Mr C is also unhappy with the broker  (a 
car dealership)  that sold him his GAP policy. But the dealership  is an entirely  separate  
business to Mapfre, so I don't intend to comment on the dealerships actions in this decision.
When Mr C bought his car on finance, on 26 March 2015, he also bought  his GAP policy.  
The GAP  policy was to start immediately and the policy  certificate said it would run for 
49 months. In other words it expired on 26 April 2019. Mr Cs car was stolen shortly  after that 
date. So when he claimed on his policy Mapfre told him he was no longer covered as his 
policy had already expired.
In support of that decision Mapfre has referred  to Mr Cs certificate of insurance.  That clearly 
shows that the period of insurance  is 49 months  from 26 March 2015.  In other words the 
period of insurance according to the insurance certificate would end on 26 April 2019. But I 
don't think  its fair for Mapfre to rely on that date.  Ill explain why.
The benefits  of Mr Cs policy depend on when the claim  was made.  And, as more  than 36 
months had passed  before Mr C made  his claim,  he was looking to claim under section 2 of 
the policy. For an eligible  claim under that section, the policy will pay the difference between  
the early settlement balance owing on the finance agreement and the motor insurers  
settlement of the comprehensive insurance claim.
The policy defines  the period of insurance under which a claim may be payable. And for 
claims under section 2 of the policy it says the period of insurance  ends at the earliest  of the 
following:
 a maximum  of 60 months from the start date;
 the scheduled expiry date of the finance agreement; or
 the date on which Mr C shall  have paid all sums due under the finance  agreement.
Nowhere in the policy or its key facts does it say that the period of insurance is determined 
by length of the policy as set out on the insurance certificate. If Mapfre had intended the 
period of insurance to be determined by its length  as given on the certificate then the policy 
should say so. But as it doesn't I don't think its fair for Mapfre  to rely on the period of 
insurance as set out in the insurance certificate.  
Ref: DRN05131692I've seen evidence  for Mr Cs finance provider that his finance agreement  was due to come  
to an end on 24 May 2019. And I've seen that in the finance agreements  pre-contract 
information it shows that the first payment on Mr Cs finance  agreement would be due at 
least one month after the date of the agreement. In other words, if Mr Cs agreement began  
on 26 March 2015, then his first payment  would  be due in April 2015. Mr C was then 
required to pay a further 48 monthly payments  (including the final balancing payment in the 
last month). In other words Mr C would be due to make 49 monthly  payments in total starting  
in April 2015 and finishing in May 2019.  And that would tie in with the information Mr Cs 
provided from his finance company which shows that the finance  agreement was due to 
come to an end on 24 May 2019.  
So in line with the wording in his policy document, I think  the date on which  Mr Cs period of 
insurance was due to come to an end was 24 May 2019. Thats because that was the date 
when Mr C was due to make the final payment  on the finance agreement. In other words that 
was the date the finance agreement was due to expire. And as Mr Cs car was stolen before 
that date I think he was still eligible to claim under the terms of his policy. 
It follows that I think Mapfre should  consider Mr Cs claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of his policy as they applied  at the date of his claim. It should add simple  interest  
to the settlement due at a rate of 8% simple a year from the date of Mr Cs claim to the date 
it makes payment. If the amount of Mapfres settlement plus interest  is greater than the sum 
to be paid to the finance  company  directly then Mapfre should pay any balance  to Mr C. 
Also, as this matter  has clearly been a source of distress  and inconvenience  for Mr C I think  
it should pay him £100 compensation.
Mr C accepted my final decision but Mapfre didn't respond.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Mapfre nor Mr C objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. I 
require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to:
Consider and settle Mr Cs claim on his GAP policy  as per its remaining terms and 
conditions at the date of claim. It should  add simple interest to its settlement  figure  at 
a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Cs claim to the date it makes payment1. If the 
settlement figure is greater  than the sum owing to the finance  company, it should pay 
any balance to Mr C.
Pay Mr C £100 compensation  to address his distress and inconvenience.
1 If Mapfre  considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN05131693Mapfre should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr C has accepted 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0513169