K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained as director of a limited company  that Ill refer to as N - that        
Covea Insurance  plc unfairly turned down a claim  on his commercial combined insurance 
policy. 
For ease Ill refer to Mr B throughout my decision rather  than N.
background
Mr B claimed on his policy after a laptop and briefcase were stolen from one of his fleet cars. 
He said he was in a carpark and noticed someone  being loud and getting  very close to him 
when he was paying for parking via his phone. He said hes sure the car was locked as he 
always checks the handle. He said when he returned to his car someone had stolen some of 
his belongings  from within the car. He thought  his key must  have been cloned as the car was 
locked when he left it and when he returned.
Covea said Mr Bs claim wasnt  covered  because  while the turning  of a key can be 
considered forcible,  there werent  any signs  of violent entry. And the policy doesnt cover 
claims for theft unless  forcible and violent entry is used. Mr B didnt think this was fair and 
brought his complaint to us.
Covea provided  examples  of other  cases it thought were similar to Mr Bs where  wed 
agreed it was fair for Covea to turn down  the claims.
Our investigator didnt  think Covea  had fairly  turned down Mr Bs claim. He said while  there 
wasnt evidence of forcible and violent entry he thought  it was fair and reasonable for Covea 
to reconsider Mr Bs claim as he was satisfied a genuine theft had occurred. 
Covea didnt agree  with our investigators recommendation. It said the policy didnt  provide  
cover for theft unless  there  was forcible and violent  entry and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
Before reaching my decision I contacted Covea to let it know  I intended  to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I explained  why I didnt think the other cases it referred  to meant  it was fair for it to 
turn down Mr Bs claim. I said I intended  to tell Covea to pay Mr Bs claim plus 8% simple 
interest. Covea still didnt agree as it said the policy just didnt provide cover in these 
circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy  provides cover for theft under the specified all risks  section. The terms and 
conditions of the policy say theft from an unattended vehicle between the hours of 6am and 
9pm isnt covered  unless  entry  to the vehicle  is by forcible and violent means. 
When Mr B has talked  about his key being cloned,  I think  hes referring to the thief using 
some sort of electronic device rather than a cloned key. Where  a theft involves a device of 
this kind I agree  that when taking account of the relevant case  law  it wouldnt be 
Ref: DRN06225962considered forcible  and violent entry. I say this because a device that wouldnt normally  be 
used to gain entry to the car hasnt been used.
But my role is to consider  whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
individual complaint. Mr Bs policy covers  theft. And Im satisfied that a genuine theft has 
taken place. I say that because  Mr Bs told us he pressed his key fob to lock his car. He said 
he always tries the door handle as well to check its locked and recalls  that the car was 
locked when he returned to it. I accept this and think its most likely he locked his car and the 
theft was carried  out by someone using an electronic  device. As Mr B did everything he 
could reasonably do to make  sure his car was locked, I dont think  it would produce a fair 
and reasonable outcome if I allowed Covea to rely on there not being  forcible  and violent 
entry to turn down  Mr Bs claim.  
I appreciate Covea has referred  to other  cases that it thinks are similar where  our 
investigators thought  it was fair for them to turn down claims. However we decide  all cases  
on their own individual  merits and Ive explained above why I dont think Covea has acted 
fairly and reasonably in this particular case. 
I dont think Covea can fairly turn down Mr Bs claim.  So to put things right I think  the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this particular  complaint  is for Covea to pay Mr Bs claim in line with 
the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy. Due to the time hes been without the 
money Covea should  add interest at a rate of 8% simple from the date of the theft to the date 
it makes payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance  plc to pay Ns 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  It should add interest to 
that amount  at a rate of 8% simple  per year from the date of the theft to the date it makes 
payment1.
It should do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr Bs accepted my decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  on 
N, to accept or reject my decision before 27 September  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
1 If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN0622596