K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr K says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Barclays had to make  it clear to Mr K that he had a choice  about  it. 
But Mr K says it wasnt made clear that the policy  was optional.
Barclays says the PPI was sold over the phone. Its sent us a copy  of the script it says was 
used in similar calls at the time. And this script instructs the advisor to ask whether  the 
consumer would like to apply for the PPI.
As Mr Ks credit card had been open for a number of years before this call, I dont think  he 
can reasonably  have thought he had to have the PPI in order to get the card. And, based  on 
what I understand about Barclays  sales  practices  at the time, I think  its likely that it was 
made clear in the call with Mr K that he had a choice about the PPI.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr K, so it had to check that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the time,  I think  that the PPI was 
right for him. For example, he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the exclusions  
to or limits on the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he 
wouldve been entitled to full sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclays had to give Mr K clear information  about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But, for 
the same  reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have been useful 
for Mr K if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr K off taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN01546022my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.  
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0154602