K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Countrywide  Principal Services Limited (Countrywide) has charged him 
more that it should have  for his Mortgage Care insurance policy.
background
Mr Bs Mortgage Care policy has been  in place since  May 2004. The policy was sold and 
administered by Countrywide but the insurance  is underwritten by another  company who Ill 
refer to as Company A. 
The policy has renewed each year and Mr B has accepted the price. In 2019  Mr B called 
Countrywide after receiving his renewal letter to question the increase in price  that year. He 
said he was told at first this was a result of a computer error and insurance premium  tax 
being added. He was told this was corrected and the price  dropped  by around 20%.
Mr B was later told the reason for the drop in price  was because a loyalty discount was 
applied. He didnt  think it was fair this hadnt  been  offered before or that Countrywide didnt 
make it clear  on their renewal documents that he would be offered  this if he called and asked 
for a better price. As a result he feels hes been overcharged for a number  of years when 
hes paid the full price  of the policy without any discount being applied.
Our case handler looked at Mr Bs complaint and said that she didnt think  Countrywide had 
done anything  wrong. She said it was a discretionary discount  and Countrywide was entitled 
to offer this as it saw fit. And she didnt think it had done anything wrong when it didnt 
explain in the renewal paperwork that this was available.
Mr B disagreed. He feels this should have been made clear sooner. And his recent renewal 
has included  this discount being applied for a second year and he feels this demonstrates  
hes lost out by it not being in place for longer. Because of this the complaint  has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint for much the same reasons as our case handler. I know hell be disappointed by 
this, but Ill explain  why.
With complaints about the price of insurance, its important I make it clear  that I dont have 
the power to tell a business what it should  charge its customers for insurance  products. If I 
did, I would  be in effect determining or telling a business how it should operate  and thats  
not my role. And this is the case when saying whether a business  should or shouldnt  offer a 
discount.
But I can look at what has happened  and whether a customer has been treated fairly. And 
where I feel there has been  any unfair  treatment, give direction to put this right.  
Mr Bs insurance was provided  by Company A and it is responsible for setting the overall  
price of the policy  so taking account of the risk its insuring and what  it feels  it needs to 
Ref: DRN07858852charge to cover this risk. Countrywide doesnt  take a view of the risk or price it. But in its role 
as an administrator of the policy, it is able to offer commercial discounts when a customer is 
unhappy with the price  quoted, so it can affect  the overall price paid when this is applied.
Mr B feels  the information about  the discount  should have been made clear in the in the 
renewal documents  hes received for the policy. Ive looked at these and I dont think  
Countrywide has done anything wrong with what it has provided. Ill explain why.
ICOB 6.5 sets out the obligations Countrywide should follow when  providing  information for 
policy renewals. In summary, it explains that the renewal  price needs to be provided in good 
time ahead of the renewal date and in a format that is consistent with how this has been 
displayed before  so the information is clear and easy to read. This information has been 
provided in the previous renewal documents Ive seen so I think its done what it needed  to 
do here.
As Mr Bs policy has renewed  more  than four times, from 2017  onwards  Countrywide also 
needed to include  the following statement:
You have been  with us a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you 
want at a better price  if you shop  around.
This wording was included in the 2019 renewal document  in bold type and I think 
Countrywide did what it needed to, drawing the statement to Mr Bs attention. Although  Mr B 
didnt shop around, he did call it see if he could get a price  and arguably this statement did 
what it was intended  to. Whether  there  was or wasnt a discount available  isnt something 
that Countrywide needed to explain in the renewal  documents  or highlight. So I dont think 
its done anything  wrong by not including this as hes suggested it should have.  
Often discounts are offered when policies  are first taken out but this also happens  when 
insurers are trying to retain  existing customers who might  be considering leaving. This isnt 
uncommon and each business  sets the price it feels  it needs  to in order to cover the risk. 
And this can mean at times reducing the price  below what might be the economical price  of 
the policy to attract or retain customers. However,  not offering a discount doesnt mean 
someone has been treated unfairly and deciding when to offer a discount  if at all is 
something a business  is entitled to do.
As Countrywide did not set the overall  price of the policy  it is not responsible for how this has 
changed over time and increased. And Ive not considered this in this complaint. If Mr B feels 
the price of the policy has risen unfairly  overall, hed need to raise  these concerns with 
Company A instead.
Countrywide has done what it needed  to in terms of providing Mr B with the right information 
on his policy  at renewal  stage. It was under no obligation to offer a discount on the price set 
by Company A and when it did, Mr B was able to benefit from this. But I cant  say this 
demonstrates the price  of the policy was wrong  before  or that he has been  overcharged  as a 
result of this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN07858853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0785885