K821x#15complaint
Mr G acquired  a used car in June 2018, by means of a 48-month Conditional Sale 
Agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. The car was not of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply,  and rejection was agreed. The car was collected from Mr G in April 2019.  
Mr G complains that, before making a settlement payment,  Santander applied  substantial 
mileage and damage charges to his agreement  account. He wants  Santander to withdraw 
these charges.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 18 August 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I disagreed with our investigators  view 
that the complaint should be upheld. I thought  it should be upheld  in part.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision,  saying  that the deposit he paid when he 
acquired his car was £6,581.91, and not £4,500 (as recorded in my provisional decision).
All the documentation  we have received relating to this complaint  states  that Mr Gs deposit 
was £4,500. But the dealer invoice for his car that we received does include the figure of 
£6,581.91, the meaning of which we have been  unable to confirm.  
The dealer  invoice describes the figure of £6,581.91 as cash   it appears to relate to the 
part exchange of a previous vehicle, and possibly to the settlement of a previous finance 
agreement. And the dealer invoice also includes the figure of £4,500, which it describes as 
total deposits.
We asked Mr G to explain  the dealer invoice figures.  We were  told that he no longer has the 
relevant paperwork,  and that he was unable to provide an explanation.  
We asked Santander  as well to explain the dealer invoice figures. Santander did not 
respond, either to this request or to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
As noted above,  we have been unable to confirm the meaning of the figure in the dealer 
invoice for Mr Gs car, which he believes is the deposit he paid. But the same invoice 
includes a figure  of £4,500, which it describes as total deposits. And, where  the figure for 
Mr Gs deposit appears  in all the other documentation we have received, it is always  £4,500.
Based on the available evidence, and on balance, I am unable  to find that the deposit paid 
was not £4,500. In these circumstances, I continue to think  that the conclusions reached in 
my provisional decision are correct.
Ref: DRN00236972my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc to refund Mr Gs deposit  
of £4,500 (plus  interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement), less a mileage charge of £4,023.45.
If Santander considers  it has to deduct tax from the interest element of my award, it should 
send Mr G a tax deduction certificate  when it pays him. He can then use that certificate to try 
to reclaim the tax, if he is entitled  to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN00236973COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
17 August 2020
complaint
Mr G acquired a used car in June 2018,  by means of a 48-month Conditional Sale Agreement  with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc. The car was not of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply, and 
rejection was agreed. The car was collected from Mr G in April 2019. 
Mr G complains that, before making a settlement payment, Santander applied substantial  mileage 
and damage  charges to his agreement account. He wants Santander to withdraw  these  charges.
background
Santander refunded all the monthly  payments  made by Mr G under his agreement,  plus three  months 
road tax and insurance (a little over £4,400). But it did not refund his £4,500 deposit.  It said:
The car had travelled just under 9,000 miles,  for which it was entitled to make a charge (at 
£0.45 per mile) of just over £4,000 against  Mr Gs deposit
The car was returned  with damage to its entertainment system, the repair  costs of which to 
the supplying dealership were a little under £1,300
It would  pass to the dealer the balance  of Mr Gs deposit (a little under £500) 
Mr G would then owe the dealer the balance  the car repair costs (just under  £800)
Mr G disputed that Santander was entitled to apply mileage charges. He also disputed  that the cars  
entertainment system had been damaged. He added:
He was not made aware of this damage, at the time the car was collected
Neither Santander  nor the dealer had contacted him subsequently about this damage, or had 
provided evidence of the damage
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She noted the refunded monthly  payments. 
She also felt the road tax and insurance refunds, relating to a period when  Mr G was without a car, 
were fair. But she recommended that Santander should refund Mr Gs deposit as well, in full and plus 
interest.
Santander disagreed with our investigator, and so this complaint was referred  for review by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words,  what I 
consider most  likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence and wider  circumstances.
Santander argued that the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 allowed it to make a deduction  from Mr Gs 
refund to account for usage. The mileage  rate it applied is that used by Her Majestys  Revenues & 
Customs for up to 10,000 miles. I accept Santanders argument, and I am unable to find unreasonable 
either the rate per mile it chose or the total mileage deduction it applied.   
We asked  Santander for evidence of damage to the entertainment system  in Mr Gs car, and whether  
it or the supplying dealership  had provided  evidence to him. It provided undated photographic 
evidence of this damage to us, but it was unable  to tell us whether  this evidence  had been shared  
with Mr G. Although it argued that Mr G would have been fully aware of the damage. 
On the one hand, Santander has shown that the cars entertainment system was damaged. And it has 
asserted that Mr G was aware of this damage. 
Ref: DRN00236974On the other hand, Mr G disputes that the system was damaged. And Santander has not provided 
evidence:
of when  the system was damaged
or that this damage and the repair cost were  drawn to Mr Gs attention at the time (or very 
soon after)  the car was collected from him
On balance, without evidence of notification, I find that Mr G was not made aware that the system  
required a repair costing nearly £1,300.
The system may or may not have  been damaged when the car was collected. But, even if it was 
damaged, I do not think it is fair or reasonable  for Santander and the supplying dealership to make a 
substantial repair charge, in the absence of prompt notification with supporting documentation. 
In these circumstances, I conclude that (in addition  to the refunds already made) Santander should 
refund Mr Gs deposit  (plus interest), without a deduction  for damages, but with a deduction  at £0.45 
per mile for just under  9,000 miles travelled by his car.
my provisional  decision
For the reason  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr G 
or Santander Consumer (UK) Plc by 17 September 2020, my provisional  decision is that this 
complaint should be upheld in part. 
My provisional  settlement  recommendation is that Santander should refund  Mr Gs deposit (plus  
interest at 8% per annum  simple from the date of payment to the date of settlement), less a mileage 
charge of £4,023.45.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0023697