K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma)  gave  her 
loans she couldnt  afford to repay.
background
Mrs S took out 4 loans between 12 June 2015  and 12 April 2017, all due for repayment by 
instalments over a year. 
Her 2nd loan was withdrawn after 11 days during the period she was able to cancel.
loan start  date repaid amount repayment term repayment amount
112/06/2015 14/06/2016£400.00 52 weeks14.62 per week
210/06/2016Withdrawn  
21/06/2016£600.0052 weeks22.96 per week
315/07/201618/07/2017£800.0052 weeks30.62 per week
412/04/2017 04/05/2018 £1,200.00 12 months£199.20  per month
Mrs S said she didnt  know  what  her true income/  expenditure  actually was at that time but if 
Satsuma had checked her financial situation  it wouldve seen she was constantly  taking out 
pay day loans to pay other pay day loans. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He said he hadnt  
seen enough to say it was unfair for Satsuma to provide loans 1-3 to Mrs S. But loan 4 
shouldnt have been lent as the pattern  of Mrs Ss lending showed that this loan was 
unsustainable. 
Satsuma disagreed, saying it carried out detailed checks, and made  adjustments  where 
necessary to information applicants provided,  to ensure all loans were affordable. It didnt 
agree with our adjudicator that sustained or sequential  borrowing is of itself irresponsible  or 
that it conclusively  shows the customer is persistently reliant  on borrowing.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN06254752the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
And, despite what Satsuma says about this, I think its fair to say that there may even come  
a point where the lending  history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint.
I havent seen  enough to make me think that Satsuma was wrong to give the first loan to 
Mrs S. She told Satsuma her declared  disposable income was around  £1400 per month. To 
be on the safe side, Satsuma says it adjusted this figure downwards when deciding whether 
to lend to Mrs S. Satsuma  thought Mrs S could rely on having  at least £1000  a month left to 
spend after paying her housing and living  costs and meeting her other financial 
commitments shed  told it about. Taking  this into account, and given that this was her first 
loan with Satsuma,  looking at the amounts Mrs S needed to repay and what it appears  she 
told Satsuma about her circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Satsuma  to ask her for (or verify) the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.  So I dont think Satsuma had any reason to 
think loan 1 wasnt affordable.
But I think by the time she applied for loan 2 Satsuma  shouldve started to be concerned  
about whether  this was borrowing that Mrs S could really afford to pay. I say this because  
she seems to have taken loan 2 around  the time shed finished  paying for loan 1, it was for 
significantly more than her first loan and it would have committed her to another  years 
repayments. So I think that ought  to have prompted Satsuma to question if it was any longer 
reasonable to base  its lending decision on the information Mrs S was providing.  I think it 
would have been proportionate for Satsuma to have taken steps to independently check  the 
true state of Mrs Ss finances.
Ref: DRN06254753In fact Mrs S cancelled this loan during  the cancellation period so Im not entirely sure she 
made any payments  above returning the capital amount.
By July 2016 when  Mrs S took out loan 3, just a few weeks after shed cancelled  the second 
loan shed taken out, I think  Satsuma shouldve reasonably been concerned  that she was 
asking for another loan repayable over a year  and this time for twice the amount shed  first 
taken out two years or so earlier when Satsuma provided loan 1 (and for £200 more  than the 
loan shed just cancelled). 
If Satsuma had looked in depth  at her finances,  as I think it by now ought  to have done, it 
would have seen  that Mrs S was repeatedly taking out other high cost short  term borrowing 
with several other lenders around this time. This suggests to me that she wasnt  managing to 
repay loans  sustainably  more likely, she was using  some of the money she was borrowing 
from Satsuma to help repay other loans that were due. So I dont think  it was reasonable for 
Satsuma to conclude  that it was likely Mrs S would be able to repay this, or any subsequent 
loan, in a way that was affordable for her in the long term. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mrs S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
at this point, Satsuma ought to have realised Mrs S was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Except for a few weeks gap after cancelling  loan 2, by the time 
Mrs S asked  for loan 4, she had already been continuously indebted  to Satsuma for 
twenty two months. So a pattern of dependency  on this type of credit  was already 
emerging in respect of her lending.  Satsuma ought to have realised  it was more likely 
than not Mrs S was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous 
loan was leaving in her finances  and that Mrs Ss indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably.
Satsuma shouldve  seen that Mrs S wasnt making any real inroads into the amount 
she owed. The amounts borrowed had gone up each  time. Loan 4 was for three 
times the amount shed borrowed when she took out her first Satsuma loan and the 
biggest loan shed taken. 
And loan 4 was taken  out before Mrs S had repaid loan 3  this still had around three 
more months to run. By the time she was due to make  the final repayment on loan 4 
Mrs S wouldve  been  indebted to Satsuma  for very nearly  three years.  So when she 
asked for loan 4, at this point Satsuma ought to have known that Mrs S was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
I think that Mrs S lost out when Satsuma continued  to provide loan 4 because: 
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mrs Ss indebtedness  by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit over an extended period of time 
the sheer length of time over which Mrs S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost  loans.
Ref: DRN06254754what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither Satsuma nor Mrs S has sent me any further  information or commented on what  
I said in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs S paid on loans 2, 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 and 3 from Mrs Ss credit  file
the number  of loans taken by loan 4 means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 4 should  be removed from Mrs Ss credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Provident Personal Credit  Limited  (trading as 
Satsuma) to pay Mrs S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0625475