K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs W took out a joint mortgage and PPI to protect  their monthly  mortgage  
repayments if they couldnt  work. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened.  
Mr and Mrs W are mainly concerned that Lloyds  added PPI without their knowledge  and 
didn't tell them. Mr and Mrs W say that if theyd  been offered PPI they wouldve declined  it 
and it wasnt something they wanted  or needed.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons. 
During their mortgage application process Mr and Mrs W indicated on their mortgage 
application that they didn't  want PPI. So I think  they understood that having PPI was 
optional. 
It looks like they later changed their minds  about  having PPI. I say this because Ive seen  
that Mr and Mrs W completed  a separate application  for PPI around 6 weeks or so after 
applying for their mortgage. They indicated they wanted to set the policy  up to cover them 
both. They  provided  details of the loan they wanted  to cover.  They opted to split the policy  
benefits equally. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs W must have decided  to take out this 
insurance and discussed  how they wanted to share the cover between them. 
Mr and Mrs W both signed the PPI application confirming they wanted  to apply for the cover.  
And they also set up payment arrangements at their bank to cover the monthly PPI cost. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs W mightve forgotten  some of these details 
from so long ago. But, on balance, I find that Lloyds did do enough to make it clear  that the 
policy was available  as an option  to protect  their mortgage monthly repayments. And I think  
that Mr and Mrs W chose to take out this cover knowing they couldve declined it if they 
didnt want to have  it. 
Lloyds says it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs W. If a financial business makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way. 
Ref: DRN07365382Mr and Mrs W were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. And the way the benefit  was split between them seems 
reasonable as they were both responsible for paying  the mortgage.
Mr W couldve relied on getting sick pay. But this doesnt mean  that PPI wasnt right for 
them. The policy wouldve  covered  their mortgage  repayments (plus some extra)  and paid 
out in full for up to 12 months per claim on top of any sick pay. I think this couldve been a 
useful benefit  at whats likely to have been  a difficult time for Mr and Mrs W  especially if 
they mightve faced  extra  costs  as a result of illness or disability. 
The policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr W or Mrs W became unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible. In this way, the policy offered them long term cover for their 
mortgage. 
Relying on each other, or anyone else, to help out in the event of money problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly.  And, 
although Mr and Mrs W had some other insurance,  PPI provided a different sort of cover  and 
paid out in different circumstances to policies  that provided life insurance, critical illness  
cover and death in service benefit.  So this doesnt  affect my decision. 
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.  And being entitled  to 
redundancy benefits wouldnt  have  helped Mr and Mrs W if Mr W was off work sick. PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve  got if hed lost his job, 
giving them some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Overall, looking at their circumstances at the time, I think PPI offered  Mr and Mrs W useful 
protection and it was suitable for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But Mr and Mrs W were both in full time 
employment and in good health when they took out the PPI and they werent affected by any 
of the main conditions limiting the policys benefits.  So, even if all the policy terms and 
conditions werent  explained as clearly  as they shouldve been, I dont think  having more 
information about what wasnt covered wouldve put them off taking it out.
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs W chose to take out the policy  
when they were aware that they didnt have to take out PPI if they didnt want to. And they 
signed an instruction  to their bank to pay the monthly premiums for the policy. So it appears 
to me they were happy  to pay for the cover theyd chosen. And it doesnt look as if the policy  
was an expense they couldnt  afford at the time  so the cost didnt make it unsuitable for 
them.  
This means  that, looked  at overall, I dont find that Mr and Mrs W lost out as a result of 
anything that Lloyds did wrong  when  it sold them PPI. So it doesnt need  to do anything to 
put things right.
Ref: DRN07365383my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0736538