K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about charges for damage  which Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK 
Limited imposed  when  she returned  a vehicle at the end of a finance  agreement.  She wants 
them to be waived or substantially reduced.
background
Mrs S tells us Mercedes has made charges for damage to the vehicle she returned at the 
end of a hire purchase agreement. She feels this was only wear  and tear. And she says she 
wasnt informed that any such damage  might  be chargeable when she took out the 
agreement. She says shes also had issues with the vehicle and had to return  it to the 
dealers twice during the hire period. Mrs S feels she also received poor service when she 
came to make arrangements for the return of the vehicle - and had a phone call cut off.
Mercedes told us the charges for damage were imposed  in line with the Return Standards 
document which formed part of the agreement.  And it said it had advised Mrs S that the 
vehicle would be inspected upon collection and any damage charges advised. It had offered 
a pre-inspection  of the vehicle prior to this. Mercedes said that issues with the performance 
of the vehicle were  not raised at the time and so it had not been able to investigate.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said Mrs S had been 
provided with a Vehicle Return Standards document at the time of the agreement. And the 
damage for which shed  been charged  was in excess of those Vehicle Return Standards.  As 
it was outside  fair wear  and tear he felt the charges  had been correctly  imposed. He hadnt  
seen that any issues with the vehicle  had been reported to Mercedes at the time.
Mrs S didnt agree and felt shed have been able to have repairs  done far more  cheaply than 
shed been charged. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman has 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs S has experienced the upset  which  this issue has clearly caused to her. Its 
unfortunate that what should have been  a relatively  straightforward transaction of returning 
the vehicle at the end of the finance agreement should have this result.
As a service  we deal with a lot of similar complaints and so I need to explain our approach.  
In this case the agreement which Mrs S entered included  a section which  referred to the 
requirement for the vehicle to be returned in line with the Vehicle Return Standards 
documents which Mrs S received at the start of the agreement. I cant  say whether or not the 
sales person additionally explained the damage return  policy  in detail.  But in my view this 
doesnt alter the fact that the documentation  contained the relevant information. And so I 
think Mercedes hasnt  acted unfairly in applying  these  return  standards.
Ref: DRN01342362I have viewed the report and examined the photographs attached - which  showed the 
images of the damage for which  the charges were made. The photographs are of good 
quality and they show the relevant areas of the vehicle.  There  is damage to all four wheels 
and a cracked rear bumper. The adjudicators report detailed the precise standards and 
specifications by which the damage  was measured. And I think this is beyond  what can fairly 
be described as reasonable wear and tear.
Ive also listened  to a phone call between a Mercedes call-handler and Mrs Ss son. The 
agent explained the vehicle would be inspected upon collection and offered a separate  pre -
inspection. This pre-inspection  offer was declined.  So I cant  say Mrs S was not given the 
chance to identify the necessary repairs and arrange from them to be done  elsewhere.
Im aware mention was also made of issues with the vehicle soon after supply  - but I cant  
see it was brought  to the attention of Mercedes at that time.  So I cant  ask it to do anything 
about that now. And Ive also been  unable to find any record  of any calls - other than the call 
with Mrs Ss son referred to above.
So whilst Im aware it will come as a disappointment to Mrs S - I dont think Mercedes  has 
done anything  wrong here - I shant be upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0134236