K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs D bought the policy over the phone in 2000,  sometime after she took out a credit card in 
store in 1997.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint because:
 FICLs records  show that the card account  was opened  in store  in 1997. And the PPI 
was taken out during a phone call in 2000   almost three  years later. So I think  Mrs D 
wouldve been aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that its most 
likely that she chose  to take it. I appreciate that Mrs D doesnt  remember  PPI being  
discussed and is adamant  that she didnt agree to it. But I dont think  it would be 
reasonable to uphold  her complaint based  solely on her recollection of events that 
occurred almost  20 years ago. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs D doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. While she had some sick pay through  
her work the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of this for up to 12 months if shed  been  off 
sick or unemployed.  So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ds comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN07866242my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0786624