K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. She paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
Mrs W applied for the PPI, and received a quotation showing that her application had 
been accepted. So I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs W aware that she had a choice  
about buying the MPPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mrs W, and it seems to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Although  she had some 
sick and redundancy entitlement through her employment, the MPPI wouldve paid out 
on top of this and for longer. This wouldve ensuring that she didnt fall behind  with her 
mortgage repayments or lose her home.  And it wouldve left any sick or redundancy pay 
available for other things. 
The cost of the policy  was shown on the quotation. So I think Mrs W wouldve 
understood how much she would  need to pay for it. 
Its possible  that Bank of Scotland didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mrs W doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments. But these points dont change  my conclusion.
Ive also thought about whether Bank of Scotland needs to give Mrs W some of the 
commission she paid back.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mrs Ws 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So Bank of Scotland doesnt  need to 
refund any of the commission Mrs W paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN00668202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0066820