K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc unfairly  closed his account and recorded a CIFAS 
marker against his name.
He brings this complaint with the assistance of his mother  Mrs G  but for ease, I will refer 
to all submissions as if made by Mr G directly.
background
HSBC contacted Mr G and invited him into a branch to discuss recent transactions  on his 
account.  Mr G was 15 years old at the time and the transactions which  concerned HSBC 
happened over a period of approximately one month.   Between  mid-April 2018 and mid-May 
2018, just under £35,000 had passed  through Mr Gs account through  withdrawals and 
online banking.
Mr G said he knew nothing about these  transactions.  He  had lost his card and wallet and 
had cancelled the card.  He confirmed no one else knew  his online banking details.
HSBC conducted  a review of Mr Gs account and decided to close it.  It also recorded a 
CIFAS marker  against  his name  for retaining  wrongful credit.
When Mr G complained, it rejected  his complaint   so Mr G came to this service.
He told our investigator that he had sold his account  to a third party.   Initially, he was told he 
could earn some money by doing  this.  He had handed his card and PIN over  but then felt 
pressured into handing over his online banking details  too.  He explained he felt he could not 
say no and that the third party knew where  he lived.
Our investigator thought HSBC was entitled to close the account  but the CIFAS marker 
had been placed unfairly.  He thought it should  be removed due to Mr Gs age at the time 
and him not fully understanding  the consequences  of his actions.
HSBC didnt agree.  It didnt think Mr Gs age had any relevance as to whether it should 
place a CIFAS marker or not.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
account closure
I cant see HSBC did anything wrong in closing Mr Gs account.  The terms and conditions 
allow for it  so I wont be asking it does  anymore here.
CIFAS
Ref: DRN01269212Ive thought about what HSBC has said in its submissions to this service.  In  particular - that 
it ought to have been obvious to Mr G that selling his account details to a third party meant  
the account would be used for something  improper.
And Ive reminded myself of the test which  members   including HSBC   must apply before 
recording such a marker.   It (HSBC) needs  to have relevant and rigorous  evidence  such  that 
it could report the matter to the police.  In other words, a reasonable suspicion.  Simply  
saying Mr G ought to have known (even taking into account his own admission) just isnt 
enough.
There is no evidence to suggest Mr G was involved in the transfers into his account once he 
had passed his details on  and I have seen nothing from HSBC  suggesting the same.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded HSBC satisfied the test in recording the CIFAS 
marker.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  remove the CIFAS marker held against Mr Gs name with 
immediate effect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0126921