K821x#15complaint
Ms P and Mr S are complaining that they think a car Advantage Finance Ltd supplied them 
under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
In May 2018  Ms P and Mr S acquired  a car under a hire purchase agreement  through  
Advantage. The cash price of the car was around £11,000, it was around  six years old and 
had travelled 36,500. In October  2018 Ms P contacted Advantage  to say that the clutch had 
failed and her garage had quoted  her around  £4,000 to fix it.
Advantage arranged for an independent engineer  to inspect  the car who concluded that 
there was a leak of brake and clutch fluid. And he thought it was likely that the clutch  slave  
cylinder had failed. But he said he couldnt say what had caused the fault without the 
gearbox being dismantled.
Advantage said that this report didnt set out whether the engineer thought  the fault was 
present or developing at the point  of sale, so it arranged for another independent inspection.  
This engineer said that Ms P and Mr S had travelled around 3,500 miles in the car since  they 
acquired it and he didnt think they could  have done so if the fault had been present at the 
point of sale. He also said that the fluid didnt have any road grime in it, which  he thought  
suggested the leakage was recent. So he concluded that it was most likely the fault had 
arisen since Ms P and Mr S acquired the car. 
Based on the engineers reports,  Advantage didnt think it was required to fix the fault with 
the car. Ms P and Mr S didnt agree as they said theyd had their previous car for around 
eight years and it had travelled around  121,000 miles on the same  gearbox.  So they dont 
think the clutch and gearbox on this car should have failed so early.  And they referred the 
complaint to this service.
Since then,  theyve arranged for the clutch to be replaced. But they say that the garage only 
did a temporary repair  to the gearbox.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She said, while she was satisfied that the fault wasnt  
present at the point of sale, she thought it was likely to be developing.  She also thought  that 
Ms P and Mr S were entitled  to expect the clutch  and gearbox to last more than 40,000  
miles. So she thought Advantage should do the following  to put things  right:
1.Carry out the remaining repairs to the car;
2.Refund the amount Ms P and Mr S paid to replace the clutch  and do a temporary repair  
to the gearbox; 
3.Refund one monthly  payment for the fact that they werent  able to use the car for five 
weeks; and
4.pay a £100  in compensation for trouble  and upset  caused.
Advantage didnt  agree  with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the independent engineer  
had concluded  that the clutch  and gearbox had failed  due to wear and tear commensurate 
with the age and mileage  of the car. So it said, based on the engineers  report, it still didnt 
think it was responsible for the cars repair. 
Ref: DRN00557542However, it offered  as a goodwill gesture to refund one monthly payment and pay her £100  
in compensation,  because  it said it appreciated  that she will still have to repair  the car. It also 
said it would  be able to offer her a reduced  payment plan for a period of time if this was an 
option Ms P and Mr S would like to consider.
As Advantage didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
Ms P and Mr S acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement.  Legislation  in this case  
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement  that the 
car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance  provider, Advantage is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.  Theres  no dispute  
that theres a fault with the car, but the issue is whether it was present at the time of sale, 
and whether that fault makes the car of unsatisfactory  quality when it was supplied. Ive also 
considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems such  as Ms P 
and Mr S have experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short  whether  the car 
was sufficiently durable. 
I agree  with Advantage that the expectations  of a second-hand  car are less than a new car. 
But Ms P and Mr S were still entitled to expect the car to be of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to them. In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality,  I take into 
account the relevant circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this 
case, Ms P and Mr S paid around  £11,000  for the car. The car was around six years old and 
had travelled around 36,500 miles at the point of supply. 
It does seem likely  that the fault with the clutch has materialised after Ms P and Mr S 
acquired the car, but this doesnt mean that it wasnt starting to develop when they acquired 
it. I note that theyve said that they had difficulty putting the car into third gear shortly after 
they acquired the car. And Im conscious  that theyd only driven around 3,000 miles from the 
time they acquired  the car and when the issues arose. Advantage has said that the issues 
Ms P and Mr S have had with the car are down to usual wear  and tear. And its referred  to 
the second engineer report which it said suggested that the failure was down to age-related 
general wear and tear.
In deciding this, I need to think  whether a reasonable  person would expect to see a such a 
fault given the cars age, price and mileage.  I dont think they would. Ive noted the engineer 
has commented that wear can also be accelerated  depending on the vehicle owners driving 
style i.e. cylinder was a more aggressive driving  style, using a vehicle in constant  town 
driving can result in accelerated clutch component wear which is a possibility in this case.  
So I think he has effectively concluded that the clutch has failed sooner than one would 
reasonably expect. And I also think the general expected life expectancy of a clutch and 
gearbox is more than 40,000 miles.  Given the low number  of miles Ms P and Mr S have  
driven, I think its unlikely that its their driving style thats caused the premature failure of the 
clutch. And I dont think Advantage has given  us anything to show  that the failure was down 
to their driving style.
Ref: DRN00557543Im also conscious that the garage  that actually carried out the work, having taken the 
gearbox apart, has said the clutch has broken  apart. And Im more persuaded by what  this 
garage has said as theyre  the only ones whove inspected the gearbox once it was taken 
apart. Ms P has also given us photos of the clutch which  do show its broken apart and 
caused further damage to the gear box and slave cylinder. I think this seems to be a 
significant failure of the clutch which seems to me that this is most likely down to a 
mechanical failing rather than wear and tear. But, irrespective of this, I remain of the belief 
that I think it was fair for Ms P and Mr S to have had a reasonable expectation that the clutch 
would last longer  than it did.
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded that the car was sufficiently durable given 
the cars  age, price  and mileage. So it follows that I dont think  the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale.
what Advantage should  do to put things right.
Ms P and Mr S have already arranged for the clutch to be replaced  and had a temporary  
repair carried out to the gearbox at a cost of £1,237.68. And they wouldnt have had to do 
this if Advantage  had authorised the repairs when Ms P first raised  them. So I think its fair 
that Advantage should refund this plus 8% simple interest from the date she paid it until she 
gets it back.
I also understand that the garage didnt repair the gearbox in full and I understand it needs 
replacing. So I think Advantage should  arrange to replace the gearbox.  
Ms P and Mr S werent able to use the car for around five weeks from 16 October 2018 until 
it was repaired on 17 November 2018.  So I think Advantage should refund the monthly  
payment they made in October  2018 to reflect  their loss of use. Advantage should also pay 
8% simple  interest per year from the date they paid this until they get it back.
Finally, I think  this matter has inevitably caused  Ms P and Mr S some distress  and 
inconvenience. In addition to the natural  distress  caused as a result of the car breaking 
down, theyve also had to arrange for repairs at their own expense.  Taking all this into 
account I think Advantage should pay £100 in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Finance Ltd to do the following to resolve  this complaint:
1.Refund the £1,237.68  Ms P and Mr S paid to repair the car*;
2.Arrange to repair the outstanding issues;
3.Refund the monthly payment they made in October 2018*;
4.Pay £100 in compensation.
Ref: DRN00557544*Advantage should pay 8% simple  interest  per year on this from the date Ms P and Mr S 
paid it until they get it back. If it thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms P and Mr S how much  its taken off. It should 
also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0055754