K821x#15complaint
Miss G says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says she was struggling financially when Sunny lent to her. In 
particular she was in arears  on her mortgage and other lending.  She thinks  because of 
this Sunny shouldnt  have  lent to her as she couldnt afford to make the loan repayments.
Miss G is also concerned  that some of her outstanding loans have been sold to a third 
party.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. Sunny disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Gs complaint  should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings, are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
Sunny, and Miss G, received my provisional decision. And no one had anything  to add after 
theyd seen it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sunny and Miss G didnt  raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision.  So Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. 
putting things right - putting things  right   what Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss G paid on loans 1 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 and 2 from Miss Gs credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 3 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 3 and 4 should be removed from 
Miss Gs credit  file once they have been  repaid.
If Miss G still owes Sunny  any of the principal balance she borrowed on loans 2, 3 and 4, 
instead of the compensation  above  for these  loans, Sunny should remove all the interest and 
charges applied to the outstanding  balance.  Sunny should  then re-work the account as if all 
payments made by Miss G went to towards  the principal. But importantly, Sunny needs to 
make sure that Miss G doesnt repay more than the principal amount borrowed. And it 
should take into account any payments she made to the third party.
If after doing this Miss G hasnt repaid the principal she borrowed Sunny can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Miss G has already paid enough to repay
the principal then any overpayment should  be refunded to her with 8% simple*  interest  from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Ref: DRN09851172And if Sunny doesnt have ownership of any of this lending, and it wants to make a 
deduction due to the amount owed,  then it should buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Miss G.
Sunny should  try and work together with Miss G to come  to a mutually agreeable repayment 
plan with Miss G in order to repay what is owed. And Id remind Sunny of its obligation to 
treat Miss G fairly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Any set-off  
needs to be done after tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Gs complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN09851173an extract  from my provisional decision
This complaint is about  one running credit account and three instalment loans Sunny provided  to 
Miss G between November 2013 and June 2015.
loan number date started amount borrowed date ended
1 26/11/2013running credit account  
with a limit of £15030/04/2015
2 04/03/2015 £200 04/01/2016
3 05/05/2015 £100 04/01/2016
4 23/06/2015 £200 04/01/2016
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt  think  that Sunny was wrong to have 
approved loans 1 and 2. But she thought it shouldnt have approved loans 3 and 4.
Sunny agreed with the adjudicators assessment. It said that as the consumer had repaid less than 
the capital she borrowed then there was no refund  due. It has bought back  loans 3 and 4 from the 
third party collection agency and it said that once  the capital was repaid it would amend Miss Gs 
credit file to reflect this.
Miss G didnt accept this offer. And she wanted to know what would happen  about  the money she still 
owed to Sunny. Our adjudicator explained that loan 2 would remain  with a third party  debt collection 
agency and Miss G should continue to make payments to
this business. Loans 3 and 4 would  return to Sunny and she should  make repayments to it.
Miss G responded again,  raising no new issues, but she didnt accept the offer made by Sunny. So as 
no agreement has been reached the case has been  passed  to me to issue a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on 
our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Miss G could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN09851174Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Gs complaint. Ive provisionally decided  to uphold Miss Gs complaint  
and have explained why below.
loans 1 and 2
Loan 1 had a credit  limit of £150 and it was illustrated  to be repaid over 5 months. The maximum 
Miss G would repay, if she borrowed the full amount,  was shown to be just over £60 a month.  And 
Miss G started loan 2 around a year and a half after starting loan Loan 1 was still outstanding  when 
she did this.
It seems Sunny obtained some information from Miss G about  her income before deciding  to approve 
loan 1. It recorded  this as being just under £700  per month.  As far as I can see Sunny didnt ask 
about, or obtain any further information regarding, Miss Gs expenditure. Or at least it hasnt been 
able to show  what it found out about  this. And it seems to have recorded  very limited information 
about her expenditure  before approving loan 2.
Sunny also says it carried out a credit history check for Miss G  although it also hasnt provided the 
results of this. Given  the lack of information, I cant be sure about  what  Sunny knew about  Miss Gs 
expenditure before  it approved these  loans. But I have seen a copy  Miss Gs recent credit file. Whilst  I 
accept that Sunny wouldnt  have seen this at the time I think its likely, as Sunny says it carried out a 
credit check, that it wouldve  been aware of at least some of the information  Ive seen on this.
The credit  file shows  that Miss G was having problems managing her money. I can see that before 
loan 1 she had two fairly  recent county court judgements that were still active. And before loan 2 she 
had an instalment loan that had been in default since  early 2014. She had been using other short 
term lenders, albeit at times infrequently, over a number of years. All of this points to Miss G having 
sustained and potentially serious  financial  problems.
I think  that Sunny wouldve  found out this information  if it had made  proportionate checks. And I think 
Sunny wouldve seen Miss G wouldnt have  been  able repay loans  1 and 2 in a sustainable way. So I 
think that Sunny shouldnt have given this loan to Miss G and I think shes lost out as a result of this. 
So Im intending to uphold  Miss Gs complaint about loans 1 and 2.
loans 3 and 4
Miss G hasnt said why she disagrees with our adjudicators opinion, and Sunnys  offer,  in respect of 
loans 3 and 4. So I wont comment further about the lending save  to say that I agree that Sunny 
shouldnt have approved  loans 3 and 4 and I think the offer is a fair way to resolve Miss Gs complaint 
about these two loans. I have outlined  what Sunny should do in respect of these loans in the 
compensation section below.
Ref: DRN0985117