K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) acted unfairly  and unreasonably 
when dealing with his portfolio mortgage.  He wants to be put into a position which he feels is 
fair and reasonable.
background
Mr S had a portfolio  buy-to-let mortgage  with TMW, taken out through  a broker. It covered 
six properties. Mr S wanted  to release  one of the properties from the mortgage, but said 
TMW required him to pay too much  to release the property in order  to improve  its security.  
Mr S felt that this was unfair and unreasonable  TMW  made  him pay £166,346.78, while  
Mr S thought  that he should only have paid £145,000. 
Mr S complained to TMW, raising points not within the complaint made to this service  in 
addition to the main  complaint. It said Mr S was unhappy because  TMW was relying  on the 
current value and rental income  and current loan to value ratio (LTV   the amount 
borrowed compared to the value of the property) in the portfolio (not the original  valuations  
and LTV);  Mr S wanted  to maintain the original  LTV from when  the mortgage started. 
TMW explained that it considered the release of property from a mortgage according  to its 
appetite for risk at the time the release was sought,  and its aim was to maintain the overall 
current LTV. It said that Mr S had previously  been supplied with information about how 
properties may be released and its policies. TMW also said that the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage made it clear that it was a portfolio mortgage and wasnt linked to a specific  
property within the portfolio.  TMW refused  to change its position or allow the LTV to be 
altered, but paid £200 compensation for the delays in the process (it offered another  £100 
later).
Mr S complained to us about the terms on which TMW was willing to release one property. 
The adjudicators view was that TMW had given  Mr S a portfolio mortgage, so it couldnt be 
considered on the basis  of the individual properties. He thought  that the amount calculated 
to release the one property was correct  and in line with TMWs policies, and that TMW  was 
entitled to apply its policies. The adjudicator noted that Mr S had been  told about the policy.  
He also said that it was Mr S decision to take steps before he received the confirmation of 
how much  it would cost to release the property  and didnt think it would be fair or reasonable 
for TMW  to pay for the costs paid by Mr S in relation  to those actions.  The adjudicator said 
£200 compensation for the nine day delay by TMW in providing the confirmation of the 
amount required  to release the property  was fair and reasonable, and noted another  £100 
remained on offer.
Mr S disagreed. He didnt  think lenders  could  change  their policies and apply them.  Mr S felt 
that the LTV shouldve returned to 85%, and that the compensation wasnt  enough for the 
trouble and upset  he suffered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03061092In essence, this complaint is about  the LTV. When the mortgage was first taken out, the LTV 
was 85%,  but over time (including the addition  of other properties and changes to the value 
of the properties), the LTV dropped to 66.03%. Mr S wanted  the release  of the property 
calculated either  on the basis that the LTV would return to 85% or at least a figure  closer  to 
85%, rather than 66%. 
The LTV is a fundamental part of TMWs  lending policies and the calculation  of the amount 
required to release a property.  Lenders are able to apply their policies, provided they do so 
fairly and reasonably. The policies applied are those which  exist at the time the relevant 
application is made, not the ones which applied when the mortgage  was first taken out (this 
is made clear in the mortgage offer and the supporting terms and conditions). 
TMWs policies  require that to permit the release of a property, the LTV existing at the time 
cant be increased. The original LTV is irrelevant, and is always likely  to change over time 
due to changes  in the value of the properties and any repayments  made.  This policy  is also 
made clear in the information given to customers,  including Mr S; I note he received this 
information before making the application.  
At the time Mr S wanted to release the property,  the LTV was 66.03% and TMW was entitled 
to apply its policies  and refuse  to allow the LTV to be increased. This meant that the amount 
it required Mr S to pay to release the property was correct,  fair and reasonable. His 
counteroffer was considered, but I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable for TMW  to 
reject it in favour of applying the same  policy  to all customers.
I then considered the point about  the delays by TMW. I should point out that initially  Mr S 
didnt complain to this service about this point, and expressly told TMW that he wouldnt, 
following payment  of £200 compensation.  Normally,  I would refuse  to deal with any new 
points raised, but Im satisfied that TMW  is now aware Mr S has raised  these points, been  
able to respond and the issue has been  investigated by this service. 
TMW provided the confirmation  of the amount required to release the property nine days 
late. But the delay wasnt entirely its fault  it needed additional information and the 20 day 
target is a target, not a guarantee. Mr S chose  to incur costs  and commitments before he 
received confirmation  of the amount required to release the property, and in any event I note 
in 2017 hed been told the amount required would be higher than he wanted to pay. I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  for those costs  to be paid by TMW.  
But I do think the delay  attributable to TMW did cause Mr S trouble and upset. Money  never 
truly compensates for trouble and upset, and much of Mr S upset is his unhappiness  at the 
amount TMW required to release the property  (for which I havent found  TMW  to be at fault). 
I think £200 compensation  is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect  the trouble and upset 
caused by the delay  attributable to TMW, and I note another £100 has been offered. Im not 
going to require any additional compensation in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN03061093my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr S whether he 
wishes to accept the extra £100  offered by The Mortgage Works  (UK) Plc. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0306109