K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC did not retrieve  his funds from a third-party account 
that he thinks belongs  to a scammer. 
background
Mr S made two separate payments to a company for an educational course on                    
26 September 2017. This was via an online bank transfer of £1,250  and a debit  card 
payment of £1,000. Mr S was later told that the course could not be run because not enough 
people enrolled  and that he would  receive  a refund, but he never received one. He was able 
to get the debit card payment of £1,000 refunded through the card provider. He then went to 
Lloyds directly to get the £1,250 bank transfer  refunded. 
The contact  notes show that Mr S first raised this as a scam complaint with Lloyds on             
9 February 2018,  who raised the issue with the beneficiary bank. Then, on 16 February,      
Mr S contacted Lloyds  again to explain that the company had said they didnt receive  the 
£1,250 payment because theyd given Mr S the incorrect account details. Because of this, 
Lloyds raised a payment made  in error claim.  They sent Mr S a letter  explaining they would 
request a recall  of the funds within two working  days but that there was no guarantee of a 
refund. On 22 February, Lloyds sent Mr S another letter explaining theyd been unable to 
recover the funds  as the recipient had refused  to return them and claimed  they were 
legitimate funds. 
Mr S raised a complaint with Lloyds  about  the issue  on 28 February,  but they responded 
saying they felt they had dealt with the issue correctly  and that it was now a civil dispute.  So, 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. He said that someone working within  the 
company had given  him the incorrect account  details on purpose and had stolen his money. 
He said that the individual had since been  fired from the company. He felt that Lloyds 
shouldnt accept the recipients claims that they were legitimate funds and should forcibly 
remove the funds  from the beneficiary account.  
Our adjudicator felt that Lloyds  had acted quickly to try and recover  Mr S funds and had 
followed the correct  procedure for a payment made  in error. So, she didnt  agree that Lloyds 
had to do more  in the circumstances. Mr S disagreed and so the case  has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Lloyds has acted 
reasonably when dealing with Mr S complaint and I dont think it needs  to do anything 
further. I'll explain why in more detail. 
Mr S has raised a number  different complaint about  the payment.  He initially  raised the issue  
with Lloyds as a scam complaint, then later said there was a mistake  with the payment 
details hed been given so the payment had been  made in error.  He now,  again,  believes 
that he has been the victim of a scam by an individual within  the company purposefully 
giving him incorrect account details to steal money  from him. Both Lloyds and the beneficiary 
bank are now treating  this as a civil dispute, meaning they cant  do anything  further.  Our 
adjudicator has also said she thinks this is a civil dispute and based on everything Ive seen, 
it does seem more likely in the circumstances. But Ive looked at what information Lloyds 
Ref: DRN09933892had available  to them at each stage of the complaint and whether  they acted reasonably in 
light of that information. 
Firstly, Ive considered the transfer itself. Mr S and Lloyds both agree that Mr S authorised 
the transaction of £1,250  himself. This means  that Lloyds had a legal obligation to follow    
Mr S instruction and process the transfer. But there are some situations in which they 
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer. For 
example, if the payment itself was particularly unusual or out of character for Mr S. 
Ive looked at Mr S statements and I can see that he regularly made faster  payments, often 
for larger amounts  than the transfer in question. So, I cant  see that the payment of £1,250  
was unusual for Mr S and I think its reasonable that Lloyds internal systems didnt pick it up 
as suspicious.  In addition to this, at the time Mr S thought he was making  a legitimate 
payment for a course due to run in the future, so he had no concerns at that time.  
Mr S raised a scam  complaint on 9 February  2018 for the £1,250. The course had been 
cancelled in January due to a lack of interest, but Mr S still hadnt  received a full refund. I 
can see that Lloyds  raised  this with the beneficiary bank on the same  day, so I think they 
acted quickly to try and get a return of the funds. Lloyds would only be able to request a 
return on a best endeavours basis, meaning theres  no guarantee of a refund for Mr S.
It took the beneficiary bank a few weeks to look into the complaint. After an investigation, 
they didnt think  there  was enough to suspect  it was a scam and decided to treat it as a civil 
dispute at that time. Because of this, they didnt agree  to return the funds to Mr S account. 
This decision is not against the beneficiary bank so I will not be commenting  on their actions  
or choices.  And Lloyds  isnt able to influence  the beneficiary banks investigation.  So, I think  
Lloyds did all it could in the circumstances.  
On 16 February, Mr S said the £1,250  payment had gone to the wrong  account  because 
hed been given the incorrect  account  details by the company. Lloyds raised  a payment 
made in error claim and sent Mr S a letter clearly  setting  out that they would request a return 
of the funds but there was no guarantee of a refund. As the error was made  by Mr S and not 
Lloyds, Lloyds were  required to contact the beneficiary bank and make them aware of the 
error and ask for the funds to be returned.  From  their internal notes  it appears  they sent the 
beneficiary bank  an email on the same day, so I think they acted quickly.  
The beneficiary bank  contacted the recipient, who claimed that the funds were part of a 
legitimate transaction for an educational  course. Lloyds let Mr S know the result  of the 
payment made in error  claim  within a week of it being raised. Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds 
havent taken  back his funds from the beneficiary account. But that isnt the normal  process 
for when  a payment is sent to the wrong account  and Lloyds isnt able to take back the 
funds. All it can do is contact the beneficiary bank in a reasonable timeframe, which it did, 
and request a return of the funds. Because the recipient has claimed  the funds belong to 
them, this is now a civil disagreement and therefore a civil matter. 
Having carefully considered all the information  available to me, I think Lloyds acted quickly 
when Mr S raised both the scam and the payment made in error complaints. At each stage 
they contacted  the beneficiary  bank  within  a reasonable timeframe to request a return of the 
funds, which  is what I would have  expected  them to do. So, I think they have acted 
reasonably in the circumstances  and I dont require them to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN09933893my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0993389