K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about poor service by The Buy to Let Business Limited when he applied for 
a mortgage. He asks for fees to be refunded  and compensation for his time and upset.
background
Mr G wanted a mortgage to buy a residential property. The Buy to Let Business made an 
application on his behalf. Mr G says its advice and service were poor. He says if the Buy to 
Let Business had waited for him to obtain  the latest bank statements to support his 
application the lender  would have approved the application.
Mr G says the Buy to Let Business agreed  to make three mortgage applications for the price 
of two. He says it made two applications  which hes paid fees for. Mr G says as it will no 
longer assist him it should make  a refund for the third application. 
The Buy to Let Business  said the lender made  a commercial decision to decline  Mr Gs 
mortgage application and this was outside of its control. However, it said it hadnt kept in 
contact with Mr G during the application  process as it should have. As compensation for this 
it waived its fee for an application made  for a different  property. The Buy to Let Business 
said it had no record of agreeing a three for the price  of two fee arrangement.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the Buy to 
Let Business had provided the relevant  information to the lender. The lender made a 
commercial decision not to lend to Mr G. Our investigator said he hadnt seen evidence the 
Buy to Let Business had offered another free mortgage application, so he couldnt ask the 
Buy to Let Business to refund part of its fee to Mr G.
Mr G said he wouldnt have appointed the Buy to Let Business if it hadnt offered  three  
applications for the price of two. He said it should refund part of the fees he paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
The Buy to Let Businesss  fee agreement says it will charge a non refundable broker  fee on 
application. Mr G agreed to this when he signed the fee agreement.  The Buy to Let Business 
made an application on Mr Gs behalf   so the brokers  fee was payable.
Before agreeing to lend,  lenders have  to assess whether a mortgage is affordable for the 
borrower. Each lender will use its own criteria when making its decision whether to lend.  The 
Buy to Let Business provided the required  information to the lender. The lender wouldnt 
lend Mr G the amount  he wanted to borrow, saying this was due to Mr Gs low income  and 
credit commitments.  
Mr G says he was in the process  of getting  bank  statements to evidence his income. He 
says if the Buy to Let Business had waited and made the application with the latest bank  
statements the lender would have  approved  the application. I understand the later bank 
Ref: DRN09877992statement included higher rental  income. But I dont think this means the lender would 
definitely have  offered  to lend the amount  Mr G needed to borrow   especially given the 
relatively large difference between this and the amount  the lender said it would lend.
The Buy to Let Business  appealed the lenders decision. Mr G said hed reduced  his credit 
commitments. But the lender still declined to lend the amount Mr G needed. The lender 
wouldnt take Mr Gs rental income into account  as it said it wasnt satisfied it was evidenced 
and it identified further credit commitments. The Buy to Let Business also looked to apply to 
other lenders on Mr Gs behalf, but they declined due to items  on Mr Gs credit record.  
Mr G was asked for additional documents during the application process, which  took longer 
than expected. To then have the application declined must  have  been  disappointing. But I 
dont think this was due to an error by the Buy to Let Business. 
I dont think the Buy to Let Business was responsible for the lenders decision not to lend to 
Mr G. The available evidence suggests  this was due to Mr Gs financial circumstances, 
including his credit  commitments.  The Buy to Let Business did the work required for the 
application, appealed the lenders decision and contacted other lenders on Mr Gs behalf. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require  it to refund its brokers fee.
The Buy to Let Business  says the service  it provided could have been better. It said it didnt 
keep in contact  with Mr G during the process.  To compensate  Mr G for this it provided a 
mortgage application free of charge for a different property.  I think this is fair. 
Mr G says the Buy to Let Business offered three mortgage applications for the price  of two. 
The Buy to Let Business  disputes this and Mr G hasnt provided  evidence to support what  he 
says. So, in the circumstances, I dont think I can reasonably  require the Buy to Let Business 
to provide a fee free application or refund part of its brokers fees.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find The Buy to Let Business Limited 
responded fairly to Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0987799