K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that FCE Bank Plc (FCE)  are refusing to honour a settlement figure  they 
provided on a car finance agreement.
background
Mr C took receipt of a used car in October 2014. He financed the deal through  a three year 
hire purchase agreement with FCE. In late 2017,  when the deal was due to expire,  he visited 
a dealership to enquire about a replacement vehicle. The dealership checked what finance  
was still due on the car he was part exchanging  and they told Mr C that he had just £10 to 
left to pay on the agreement. So Mr C went ahead  with the deal and ordered his replacement 
vehicle, pleased that he would also benefit from a £1,600 cash back offer. 
But when the replacement car arrived and the dealership performed a final check on the 
finance, they told Mr C theyd got it wrong  and a balloon payment of £4,260  was still due on 
the car. Mr C was unable  to get the dealership  to rectify matters.  He thought they should  
honour the initial settlement figure  and he complained to FCE whod provided the finance 
agreement.
FCE said they werent responsible for the dealerships mistake.  They  explained that the 
dealership had used the wrong date to check the settlement  due but the dealership  was 
required to double check before the new vehicle was exchanged and this is when the 
mistake had been recognised. 
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought  FCE were  
responsible for the complaint as the dealership  had been acting as their agent in the 
transaction. But he didnt think they needed  to honour the settlement figure as he understood 
this had been a mistake. He didnt  think it would be fair to write off the outstanding  balance, 
as it was clearly owed, but he did think  FCE should  pay Mr C £250 to compensate him for 
the distress and inconvenience  hed been  put to. 
He noted that the car was still in Mr Cs possession despite the finance agreement  period 
now expiring and he considered Mr Cs point that the car had now depreciated. He said a 
CAP valuation suggested that the depreciation was only £165 but regardless, he explained  
that he wouldnt be suggesting FCE refund any depreciation as it had been  Mr Cs decision 
to keep the car at the end of the finance  agreement and he had always had options to end 
the agreement  or pay the balloon payment and take ownership.
But Mr C didnt agree  with the investigators  view. He thought the depreciation would  be 
significantly more and explained that he had a legally  binding invoice for the replacement car 
that he thought  should  be honoured.  He explained that hed booked  a holiday in expectation  
of receiving the cash back and he thought the suggested  compensation was derisory. He 
suggested that FCE had lied to him and had told him this service  would rule in FCEs favour. 
He said the investigator  had ignored this. So Mr C asked for a final decision  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN03437782I know it will disappoint Mr C but whilst I think FCE have made a mistake here I agree with 
the investigators suggested resolution of this case.  I know its not what  Mr C was hoping  for.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Relevant legislation allows  us to consider Mr Cs complaint against the finance provider as 
the dealership  were  acting as their agents.
I was really sorry to hear about the problems  Mr C had experienced. He must have been 
looking forward to receiving his new car and the cash back  hed been  promised and I can 
well imagine the disappoint he felt when the dealership explained  the mistake  that had been 
made.
I understand hed like this service to tell FCE to honour the settlement figure that had been 
quoted but I dont think that would be reasonable. The balloon  payment was always  due 
under the agreement and Mr C is not being disadvantaged by being asked to pay it. I think  
its reasonable to suggest Mr C should  have known a mistake had been made too. The 
agreement was clearly  set out and a final balloon payment was always  to be expected 
unless Mr C chose to hand back the car and walk away. And if Mr C had highlighted this to 
the business then the issue could have been resolved much  earlier.
But its clear that, regardless of Mr Cs responsibility to bring the mistake to the dealers 
attention, hes been inconvenienced by the mistake that was made  and should  be 
compensated for that.
Im not persuaded that there should be compensation for the depreciation in the cars value. 
Mr C has had free use of the car since the end of 2017. He could  have handed it back and 
ended the agreement whilst this complaint was in process, but he chose to retain it and has 
benefited from it in the meantime  as FCE havent  told him not to drive  it. Whilst I understand 
that any benefit Mr C has had from the car may be balanced by the loss in value due to 
depreciation, he doesnt have to trade it in; he can simply return the vehicle and walk away. 
And in this scenario it is FCE who will experience a loss in the vehicles value as its now 
worth less than they would have expected  at the end of the agreement term.
Im also not persuaded that Mr C should  be compensated for any expense he incurred in 
anticipation of receiving his cash back offer. The money hadnt been  received and it was 
Mr Cs choice and his at his risk to spend it before it was in his account. 
Mr C has suggested that the investigator  has not considered  there was a legally binding 
invoice. But this service  is required to consider what is fair in the circumstances and I dont 
think it would  be fair to decide  that because a mistake  was made almost half of the sum due 
under an agreement should  be waived.  
Hes also suggested that FCE lied to him when they explained that theyd called the financial 
ombudsman service and thered  been a suggestion this service would rule in FCEs favour. I 
can see that this issue  has already been  dealt with by the investigator and occurred because 
Ref: DRN03437783when FCE contacted this service  they were told the complaint was closed on our system as 
there had been  no contact  for some  time.  I can see as soon as contact  was made FCE put 
proceedings on hold as wed expect  them to. I dont think theres evidence  here that FCE 
lied to Mr C.
Having taken all these  issues  in to consideration I think  £250 compensation is sufficient. A 
mistake was made and FCE are responsible but whilst the mistake led to disruption and 
inconvenience for Mr C it is reasonable to suggest  he has some responsibility and couldve 
highlighted the error to the business. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to pay Mr C 
£250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions have caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0343778