K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains about her interest only mortgage  with Barclays  Bank UK PLC. She says it 
was mis-sold. And since it matured and her endowment  left her with a shortfall, she says it 
hasnt treated her sympathetically and is asking her to pay more  than she can afford. Finally 
she says an insurance  policy she took out alongside the mortgage was wrongly cancelled.
background 
Miss M had an interest only mortgage  with another lender  for £42,000.  She also had an 
endowment policy.  In 2008 she moved her mortgage to Barclays  and increased  the balance  
to £50,000.
In 2016, the mortgage term came to an end. After cashing in her endowment Miss M was left 
with a shortfall of around £8,000. 
Barclays suggested Miss M get some independent  financial  advice on repaying the 
outstanding amount. But she wasnt able to find a way forward. After some  discussion,  a 
repayment plan was agreed based on Miss Ms income and expenditure at the time. The 
plan has been  changed several times  since as Miss Ms circumstances have changed.
In 2019, Miss M complained. She said the mortgage was mis-sold.  She had wanted to 
borrow the same amount  as before but had been told the minimum borrowing was £50,000.  
She said she had been  worried at the time whether  her endowment would be enough to pay 
it off, but was told it wouldnt be a problem to borrow more or extend the term  only to find in 
2016 that this wasnt  the case.  And she said Barclays  had made the process since the term 
ended very difficult for her. It had made  her ring in frequently, but wouldnt give her an 
answer to the proposals she had made. It had been  a lengthy and difficult process to reach 
an agreement  and now her work had reduced, the arrangement was no longer affordable.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. But when it came to us, Barclays  offered £150 
compensation for not addressing Miss Ms complaint properly in its final response.
Our investigator didnt  think the mortgage had been mis-sold. But she agreed that Barclays 
had been difficult  for Miss M to work with following the term end. She said the compensation 
should be increased to £450.  Barclays accepted  that, but Miss M didnt. So the case  comes 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Another ombudsman  has already said that we can consider the mis-sale complaint even 
though Barclays  said it was out of time.  I agree.
However, having considered the complaint I dont think the mortgage was mis-sold. Miss M 
says she was told the minimum she would have to borrow was £50,000  so she did that, 
even though she was concerned about  whether her endowment would be enough.
Ive considered what she said. I dont doubt  her sincerity. But I think  shes  mistaken. Theres 
no evidence to support  her recollection. Barclays minimum lending  at the time wasnt  
Ref: DRN09090442£50,000 it was much less  so she could have borrowed £42,000. The application says she 
wanted to borrow  the extra money to pay off some  other debts and for home improvements. 
As the mortgage  offer includes a specific condition that five credit  cards  be paid off  and 
specifies the balances of each (totalling around  £3,500) this suggests  to me that this was 
indeed why Miss M borrowed extra money  at the time.
So I dont  think Miss M was forced to borrow the extra £8,000,  or told she had no choice. I 
think she wanted to borrow it for paying  off those credit card debts  and for home 
improvements. And given  the amount of the credit cards,  and her relatively  low income  as 
recorded on the application  form, its understandable  why she wanted to do that. 
I dont have any evidence  about Miss Ms endowment policy  it wasnt  sold or administered  
by Barclays  but the application records that in 2008 it was projected to return £50,000, 
matching the amount she borrowed.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, Im not persuaded that the mortgage was 
unsuitable for what seems  to have been  Miss Ms needs and circumstances at the time, and 
I dont think it was mis-sold.
Miss M may well have  been told that  if the endowment did fall short  she might  be able to 
extend the term or re-mortgage. But I dont think that makes the mortgage unsuitable of 
itself. That was more  likely to have been  possible in 2008  but regulatory changes  since  
then have made lenders more unwilling to grant or extend  interest  only mortgages than they 
once were.
As for the insurance  policy, that wasnt administered by Barclays  but by a third party 
company. So any complaint  about  how it came to be cancelled  will need  to be made  to that 
company.
Once the term expired in 2016, Miss M was left with a shortfall of around  £8,000.  Whenever 
an interest only mortgage ends in these  circumstances, I would expect the lender to work 
with the borrower,  acting  fairly and sympathetically, to try and find a way for the mortgage  to 
be repaid.
I can see that Barclays talked things over with Miss M. It recommended  she take 
independent advice to see if she had any other alternative for repaying  the balance.  But she 
didnt have any alternatives. So Barclays agreed a series of repayment plans, amending the 
amount paid each  month over time as Miss Ms income and circumstances changed.  The 
latest information I have suggests Miss M now has less than £2,000 to repay.
All of this is what should happen. Overall, I think Barclays has followed a fair process in 
giving Miss M time to repay  the shortfall in an affordable way. But I do agree with the 
investigator that there have been failings  along the way. In particular, it took around a year 
for the first payment  arrangement to be agreed.  Barclays kept telling Miss M to call in every  
two weeks  but when she did, had no more  news for her. It took too long to agree to an 
arrangement. And during this time Miss M was worried  about  her future and what would 
happen, and put to a lot of inconvenience in doing what  Barclays  asked her to. I agree a 
further £300  on top of the £150 offered for how her complaint was handled   is a fair 
resolution.
Finally, Miss M says that her circumstances have  changed again and shes  struggling to 
afford the latest  agreed payment. Shell need  to get back in touch with Barclays  to update  it 
Ref: DRN09090443on her circumstances.  Given the history, and the small amount still outstanding, I hope  
Barclays will look fairly at things and adjust the arrangement  if necessary. It has an ongoing 
obligation to treat Miss M fairly  as, initial  delays  apart, I think its done to date.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss M £450  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0909044