K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about how HSBC  UK Bank Plc has dealt with an administrative error on his 
credit card account.
background 
Mr H brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with HSBCs response to his complaint. 
HSBC told Mr H they accepted theyd made an error when making an adjustment  to one of 
his credit card accounts following a report of a fraudulent transaction in July 2018. They said 
when the error was brought  to their attention on 29 October 2018 it was rectified and they 
offered to pay Mr H £50 compensation which he accepted. HSBC also accepted further  
mistakes in failing  to pay the compensation on 14 and 21 November 2018 when Mr H 
contacted them to complain that he hadnt received it. HSBC offered a further £100 
compensation for those delays in paying  the original  compensation and their apologies. Mr H 
refused the offer and brought  the complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought HSBC had responded fairly and reasonably to the complaint. She 
thought once HSBCs  administrative  error  had been identified they had correctly re-debited  
Mr Hs credit card account, which was then cleared and later closed. So she thought  Mr H 
had been put back in the position he was in before the mistake. She found HSBCs  initial  
offer of compensation - rising to £150  following the delays in November 2018 - to be a fair 
and positive response to the complaint.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the case to go to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr H. I can see it would be a concern to find, some months later, a 
mistake had been made when dealing with the fraudulent payment. And it must have been 
frustrating for him to correct this and to then make multiple calls to chase payment of the 
compensation hed already accepted. 
Everyone agrees  HSBC  made these mistakes. Theyve apologised and offered £150  
compensation. So, the only issue for me to decide  is whether the amount of compensation 
already paid is fair and reasonable. 
I cant see that Mr H has incurred  any further expenses. I agree with our investigator  that, 
looked at overall,  the payment already made  is a fair and reasonable response  to this 
complaint. Its the sort of award Id have made in this case had the bank not already offered 
it. Although I appreciate  Mr Hs strength of feeling  about the matter,  I dont feel I can say that 
HSBC hasnt already  responded  fairly and reasonably to his complaint. So I dont require 
HSBC to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made a reasonable offer to settle this 
complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay the £150  it has offered to Mr H.
Ref: DRN05637782Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0563778