K820x#14complaint
Mr M had a business loan and current  account  with Clydesdale  Bank Plc and is unhappy 
about how the bank managed their relationship.
background
I issued a provisional decision in early November,  a copy of which is attached below  and 
forms part of this final decision.
Clydesdale accepted my provisional findings,  but Mr M did not. He said, in summary, that:
I havent sufficiently  tested the banks assertions and have wrongly accepted its version 
of events over his. For example, he never agreed  to adding the overdraft debt to the 
loan, or to adding  the overdraft debt to his loan. I should have made my decision based 
on fact, not on assumptions  and/or what I thought  was more likely.
The way he managed the current account  was effective provided there was cash 
available to pay in and he doesnt  recall  the bank making  the special provisions I 
described. Having  earlier access  to telephone and/or mobile  banking  wouldnt have 
changed anything.
He asked for his overdraft facility to be extended  for short  periods  of time to give him 
some breathing space  while he spent time with his wife. This was a difficult time so the 
bank should have been more sympathetic  and agreed to his requests. Later  on it did 
agree to some extensions but, in doing  so, it didnt give appropriate consideration to the 
likely time it would  take to sell his business. It was also unreasonable  to expect him to 
discuss his business affairs  so soon after losing his wife.
The charges  Clydesdale applied were excessive  and compounded an already difficult  
situation, causing payments to be refused and his suppliers to lose trust in him and his 
business. No proof  has been provided  that the bank  refunded  charges as gestures of 
goodwill, rather than because it realised  it had managed the situation badly.
Some of the problems he experienced with cash flow were  due to him being without a 
debit card and PIN. I havent properly considered this aspect of the complaint.
The bank  treated him badly after he complained  and lied to both him and this service.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Mr M has said hasnt changed  my mind  and I still think,  for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, that Clydesdale  has done  enough in the circumstances. Mr M disagrees 
and Im sorry about that, but I dont think it would  be helpful to repeat everything Ive already  
said. However, I would  say that:
Mr M has asked  for further evidence to support some of my findings. But weve  already  
shared all the evidence Ive relied  upon,  and Im satisfied Ive seen enough  from both 
parties in order to reach  a fair and reasonable decision. I have considered everything 
Ref: DRN08696632that Mr M and Clydesdale have said and provided and, where the evidence  is incomplete 
or contradictory, I have  made my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, Ive 
weighed up the evidence and decided what I think is more  likely to have happened
Although Mr M feels the current account charges have been excessive at times, I remain 
satisfied that they were  applied  in line with the account terms and conditions  and tariff of 
charges. And that includes the charges applied when the overdraft was renewed. Banks 
arent required to waive  all charges and interest  simply because  an individual or 
business is in financial difficulty,  thats just one of the measures  they might consider.  But, 
in any event, a considerable amount of charges has now been refunded and I do believe 
this was done with a view to helping  Mr M improve his business financial situation.
I do accept Mr M went through a very difficult time in his personal life which meant that 
managing his business wasnt  always his main priority. But the business did continue  to 
operate  the banks notes suggest  some of Mr Ms family stepped in to help at times  
and I dont think its reasonable  to have expected the bank to extend the overdraft facility 
indefinitely and without input from Mr M, given the way the current  account and loan 
were being managed.   
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly tell Clydesdale  to do anything more  in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN08696633copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M had a business loan and current account with Clydesdale Bank Plc and is unhappy about how 
the bank managed their relationship.
 
background
In early-2011 Mr M took out a £60,000  loan,  secured  on his residential property,  to help buy a 
business. A couple of months later the bank agreed to give him a £7,500 overdraft  facility on his 
business current  account.  The overdraft limit was increased to £10,000 in early-2012 and to £12,000 
in April 2015.
The banks notes show Mr M called in June 2015 to complain about  problems  over the past 10 
months  he said his relationship manager  (RM) wasnt helpful, the bank had refused to refund any 
charges and he wanted  to increase his overdraft  limit. Hes also told us there were some  problems 
around that time with his direct debit and standing order instructions. And his wife was diagnosed with 
a serious illness, which affected his ability to run the business.
Mr M is unhappy about how the bank handled their relationship after that. He said,  in summary, that:
The bank changed the way he could view his account which meant he could no longer 
manage the business account effectively because he could no longer see daily transactions.
The bank applied excessive charges to his account. It has refunded some of those  which  he 
thinks means they accept they acted unfairly, even though theyve said the refunds were  
made as gestures of goodwill.
The bank failed to reinstate all of his direct debit and standing order instructions. 
The bank unfairly withdrew his overdraft facility at various points in time and without warning.
The banks actions led directly to two prospective purchasers withdrawing from the purchase 
of his business. 
His wife was diagnosed with a serious illness which  ultimately proved terminal. This meant he 
couldnt give his full attention  to the business, but the bank had little regard  for his 
circumstances.
He was forced to sell his home in order to repay the loan and overdraft, in August 2017.  This 
couldve been avoided but for the banks  lack of understand  and help through what was a 
very difficult time.
The bank thought it had done enough to support Mr M and didnt agree  it had treated him unfairly.  Mr 
M was unhappy with the banks response, including  how it had handled his complaint and asked us to 
look into the matter in March  2018.
Our investigator didnt think the bank should have done anything  differently. But Mr M still disagreed 
so the complaint has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did the bank  treat Mr M unfairly when his business  was having financial difficulties?
Mr M has said the problems all started in June 2015, around the time he wifes illness was diagnosed. 
But the evidence the bank has provided suggests the matter went back further than that. On the 
whole, I think Clydesdale has taken adequate steps to support him. I note in particular that:
Ref: DRN08696634Mr M managed the business account in such a way that he was often close to the overdraft limit, 
which meant he frequently had to pay in money to cover payments due to leave the account  that 
day. My understanding is that he didnt use telephone or internet banking  and relied  on 
information obtained  from automated  teller machines  (ATMs) to keep  track of the account  
balance. This account management method wasnt always effective  and the overdraft limit was 
sometimes exceeded,  causing  unauthorised charges to be applied. Or payments would be 
rejected which incurred other charges. In January 2014 a new relationship manager (RM)  took 
over and, it seems, tried to encourage Mr M to use internet or telephone banking  to better monitor 
his account. But he was unwilling to do so at that time. So the RM agreed to put a manual fix in 
place whereby  the bank checked his account throughout the day waiting  for money to be credited 
and pending payments  would only be rejected if insufficient funds had arrived to cover them  by 
5pm. I dont think the bank was obliged to offer this facility so, at that point, it was going out of its 
way to help Mr M. But dont consider  this to have been a sustainable solution in the long-term   
bank staff simply dont have  the time to spend on such a manual  process. Its not clear to me 
precisely when this arrangement was withdrawn  but that seems to have happened  by June 2015.
Mr M says the bank didnt reinstate  all of his regular monthly repayment instructions  after he 
asked for them all to be cancelled  in June 2015, and he said his RM had been generally  
unhelpful. But he ended up withdrawing this complaint after the bank refunded a total of £350 
worth of charges and explained how to download  the mobile banking app and set up text 
messages in order to be sent an account balance  each morning. The banks notes also record 
that he refused its offer of a new RM. And, latterly, the bank  said it had reactivated all the regular  
payments but sometimes this also has to be done with the payment beneficiaries. In my 
experience that does  sometimes happen, usually if the beneficiary has tried to call for a payment  
after the instruction has been cancelled. In the circumstances I think  the bank did enough to 
address Mr Ms concerns at that time.
In July 2015 there seems to have been a conversation with Mr M about  refinancing £10,000 of the 
overdraft onto his loan and perhaps paying off some of the debt through  the sale of a vehicle. The 
bank agreed to extend the overdraft for a further three months  to give him time to consider his 
options. That seems fair in the circumstances.
In October  2015  it seems Mr M had changed his mind about adding  some of the overdraft  debt to 
the business loan  in fact, theres  some  indication  he said to the bank this had never previously 
been discussed.  But Mr M said he was in the process of selling his mothers house to free up 
cash and reduce the business debts. He anticipated this completing by the end of December, but 
the bank thought it best to give some additional time and agreed to extend the overdraft to the 
end of January 2016. That seems fair in the circumstances. And I also note it was at this point the 
bank says it fist realised Mr Ms wife was terminally  ill.
Mr M says the overdraft was unfairly withdrawn in January 2016 and this caused problems with 
his suppliers. I understand he still needed the £12,000 overdraft facility  at that point  because  the 
expected house sale hadnt gone through, so he hadnt been  able to reduce the business debts  
in the way hed originally envisaged. Thats unfortunate,  but I think he was given fair warning  
about when the facility would expire  and Ive seen little which  suggests  he contacted  the bank to 
explain the change  in circumstances and discuss a further extension. Such extensions had been 
agreed in the past and another  was agreed in February 2016, despite the fact the loan was in 
arrears at that time too. I think the bank acted fairly at this point.  I do note the copy  facility  letter  
the bank has provided from February 2016  says the overdraft  had been approved until September  
2016, but that doesnt match with what the banks  internal notes say. They  indicate  it was 
approved for just two more months to give Mr M time to bring the loan repayment up-to-date and 
agree what  the next steps  were. And I think its more likely than not, given  the subsequent 
correspondence, that Mr M understood this too.
It seems the bank approved further extensions to the overdraft in April and again in June 2016  
at which point it was scheduled to run until the end of September 2016.  Later in June,  Mr M 
appears to have  called to complain about the charges applied to the business account which  he 
Ref: DRN08696635felt were excessive. At that point the bank refunded £1,995 on top of some other charges  that had 
already been refunded. The banks notes say it refunded those charges as a gesture of goodwill,  
in recognition  of Mr Ms difficult situation with his ailing wife and in the hope that doing  so would 
regularise the position. In effect, I think the bank did this to try and help Mr M get on top of things,  
give him further time to make a sustainable plan for the future  and, in the meantime, avoid further  
charges resulting from exceeding the overdraft limit. Mr M has suggested that a large refund of 
charges should have  been  paid to his loan rather than the current  account  and I think hes 
referring to this payment.  The bank dispute his assertion and I can see a couple  of large debits 
left his account the same  day the refund was applied  to the current  account. Had the money been 
credited to the loan instead,  those two debit payments might well have been refused. I dont think 
the bank acted  unreasonably here.
Internal discussions at the bank appear to have taken place in August 2016 with a view to getting 
plans in place with Mr M ahead  of the overdraft facility expiring at the end of the following month. 
But, sadly,  Mr Ms wife passed  away  that month. So the bank decided to give him some breathing  
space and pick things up again toward the end of September  2016.  That seems fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr M says that in October 2016 the bank reinstated his full account  view so he could  once again 
see daily transactions.  He says this facility had been withdrawn around June 2015. But he hasnt 
provided any evidence  to support his assertions  and the bank  says it didnt make any such 
changes. From the banks notes  it seems that they tried to encourage  him to use alternative,  more  
accurate ways to manage his account  telephone or internet banking  which  he refused at first 
but then did take up in June 2016. I dont think the bank shouldve done more here.
The bank extended the overdraft again in October  2016 and refunded a further £725 of charges.  
Some internal notes  from December 2016 indicate the bank wanted to get some plans in place 
but was conscious of Mr Ms difficult situation, having lost his wife not long ago. It appears the 
bank tried to contact  Mr M by phone and letter  but he didnt get in touch until mid-January 2017. 
At that point  he advised  a property sale had been agreed and was expected to complete in May 
2017. The banks notes indicate it then had trouble  getting  hold of Mr M again, with phone  
messages not being returned. But contact was made in mid-February 2017 and in March the bank 
wrote to Mr M to confirm  their agreement.  This was to extend the overdraft facility  until the end of 
October 2017 to allow time for the business to be sold. But the bank also confirmed it needed 
monthly updates from Mr M about the sale, because loan payments had been missed and the 
current account balance exceeded the overdraft limit. The bank  also agreed to refund a further 
£905 of charges. This related to Mr M having  had problems managing the current  account  
because he had been without a debit  card  apparently the bank had sent several  but these  had 
not reached Mr M. The bank also made arrangements  to send  the replacement debt card to a 
nearby branch to ensure  it reached  Mr M. All of this seems fair in the circumstances.
It doesnt  look like Mr M kept the bank updated in the way it had requested. And in May 2017 the 
current account balance stood at over £14,000. It seems  to me that the bank was allowing him to 
exceed the overdraft limit as a relatively short-term  measure with the anticipation that things 
would be rectified once  the business sale completed. Which  seems fair in the circumstances. By 
June the plan to repay the business debts seems to have changed and Mr M then hoped  to do so 
by selling  his own home. It was around this time that Mr M raised his complaint about the way the 
bank had treated him. 
In August 2017 the overdraft and business loan were repaid in full. The overdraft facility  was 
withdrawn and the account  was kept in credit for some months although  I understand it may now 
be overdrawn again.
Ive seen nothing to suggest any charges  were applied outside the terms and conditions  of the 
account. And the bank wasnt  obliged to refund all charges and interest simply because  Mr M was 
experiencing financial  difficulties with regards to his business. But I note, as set out above,  that 
the bank has refunded  significant amounts of charges at various points in time.
Ref: DRN08696636The bank has provided copies of overdraft facility letters that it says were sent to Mr M over the 
course of their relationship. The bank hasnt been able to provide signed copies  of all those  letters 
but says these were sent automatically when  the facility was agreed/renewed. I have little reason  
to doubt that. I have  also seen three letters (from 2011,  2014 and 2015) that Mr M did sign and 
these confirm such things as, the overdraft facility term or expiry date,  that it was repayable  on 
demand and that Mr M should seek independent advice before  accepting  the facility. I think  its 
more likely  than not the bank did send letters each time the overdraft  was renewed which told Mr 
M when the overdraft  would be due for review  and, potentially, for repayment.  So I cant agree 
with him that the bank  withdrew  the overdraft facility without warning.
I appreciate, given his wifes illness,  that Mr M wanted to spend time with her and the running  of 
business might not have  been his main priority at all times.  But I also understand, given  the way the 
accounts were being managed, why the bank  wanted  to keep  in touch  and agree  a way forward. I 
dont think its reasonable  to expect the bank just to keep  extending an overdraft indefinitely and allow 
loan arrears to build  up. I say this, not least, given  the banks obligations under the lending code,  
which include  the requirement to work  positively with a customer to support a lasting solution for a 
successful running  of the business. But I would also note that requirement can usually  only be 
fulfilled if the customer keeps the bank informed of development,  keeps to any agreements and is 
prepared to make necessary  changes.
Overall, I dont currently think the bank treated Mr M unfairly or failed in its duty to act positively and 
sympathetically given the financial difficulties  he was having with his business. With that in mind, I 
dont currently think its reasonable to expect the bank to refund all the charges  incurred since June  
2015 (up to the time Mr M brought  his complaint to this service) or pay any other compensation.
Can the bank be blamed  for the sale of Mr Ms business  falling  through?
Ive considered carefully the statement Mr M provided  from the first prospective purchaser. He said 
his main concerns came after viewing the account statements for the first quarter of 2016 when he 
saw a lot of charges being applied  and that the overdraft facility had been withdrawn.  And he 
concluded from this that the business might not be able to trade for much  longer which might  mean 
hed be able to buy it at a later date at a reduced price.
I dont think its unusual for a prospective purchaser to look at a business accounts  in order to decide  
whether it is a viable venture  and a good investment, representing value for money. Ive already 
explained that I dont  think the bank acted unreasonably, that charges werent applied unfairly or that 
it was wrong of the bank to withdraw the overdraft facility when it did. So while those things may have 
affected the purchasers decision to buy, I cant say it was the banks  fault the purchase didnt go 
through. 
Ive seen little evidence relating to the second  purchase or why that wasnt successful. So, equally, I 
cant hold the bank responsible for that.
In the circumstances,  I cant fairly tell the bank to pay the losses Mr M has claimed.
Did the bank  act disingenuously when handling Mr Ms complaint?
Mr M has expressed concern with the way the bank handled his complaint and with the way it has 
communicated with this service. But I think the bank genuinely tried to address his concerns  and 
explain why it had taken  the action  it did. And Ive currently seen nothing which supports his assertion  
that the bank deliberately tried to mislead us.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN0869663