K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited took too long to set up his 
annuity.
background
Mr W had two pension plans with Prudential. Mr W sent instructions to Prudential in June 
2018 for his annuity from one of the plans to be paid from 1 August 2018. But the annuity 
wasnt set up until late September 2018. Mr W considered Prudential should  backdate  the 
payments.
Prudential said it had followed the correct regulatory process to set up Mr Ws annuity,  but 
accepted that some  of its service couldve been  better.  It offered £75 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr W didnt accept Prudentials offer, and remained unhappy. Prudential explained there had 
been some  delay when Mr W decided he wanted to take his pension  from both plans  at the 
same time. This was because Prudential had to restart  the process for setting up the 
payments. 
But Prudential accepted it may have  created a delay of about  six days because  of the short  
time it gave  Mr W to absorb information it sent ahead of a risk warning call with him. 
Prudential offered another £115.25,  made  up of £100 compensation for the inconvenience  
caused, and the balance  being six days annuity  income plus interest.
Our investigator thought Prudentials offer was fair (although she only considered the offer of 
£115.25). She was satisfied that Prudential  had followed the correct  regulatory process for 
setting up Mr Ws annuity  both on receipt  of his initial instructions, and when he decided to 
take his pension from both plans at the same  time.  
The investigator considered Prudentials offer was reasonable  in light of some of its poor 
service, and the six day delay it had caused.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions, and said the retirement date in his 
policy document was 1 August 2018. So he maintained that the pension  shouldve been paid 
from that date. He asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W had two retirement annuities with Prudential. I understand  that the intended retirement  
date for one was 1 August  2018 and 1 March  2019 for the other. But Prudential has said that 
Mr W could take the benefits from the plans at any time after age 55. I also note that 
Prudentials pension illustration dated 25 May 2018 was made on the assumption that Mr W 
would take the benefits on 1 August 2018. Im also mindful that Mr W decided to take the 
benefits from both plans at the same time. 
Mr W sent his instructions to Prudential  in June 2018, and his letter referred  to only one of 
the policies. I understand the business  wrote to him in early July, asking  Mr W to contact it to 
Ref: DRN04061992discuss his annuity  quotation. I also understand that when Mr W called Prudential  he said 
hed taken independent financial advice but wouldnt be using a financial adviser for the 
purpose of Prudentials processes for setting  up the annuity. But this call was over a month  
after the letter sent by Prudential. And it couldnt  do anything further until it had completed  its 
requirements for setting  up the annuity.
Prudential had to follow a specific process, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). This was to ensure Mr W had enough  information to make an informed choice, and 
properly understood the implications of the decisions he was making.  Mr Ws requirements  
were clarified and a new retirement pack was sent out straight away. Prudential  also sought 
to determine whether  Mr W had any medical or lifestyle issues which might mean hed be 
better off with an enhanced annuity. Again, I dont think  this was unreasonable.
But Prudential accepted there  was some duplication in getting the information it needed from 
Mr W, and offered £75 as a goodwill gesture. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
At the end of August  2018 it was established  that Mr W now wanted to buy an annuity using 
the funds from both pension plans. This meant Prudential had to start the process again, so 
that it could properly set up the annuity  for Mr W. But it accepted there was a slight delay 
caused by the information  it had to send Mr W - six days in total.  It offered £115.25 for the 
inconvenience caused and loss of six days annuity income, plus interest.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think the steps  taken by Prudential to set up Mr Ws annuity 
were unreasonable, or caused  excessive  delay. It did what it needed to do in terms of the 
required regulatory checks and at all times,  in my view, was acting in Mr Ws best interests  in 
ensuring that he understood the options  available to him. There were delays, but not all 
created by Prudential.  But Prudential has offered compensation in recognition  that some of 
its service couldve been better, and to acknowledge that it may have caused a slight delay 
of about six days  in September 2018.
Overall, I think the compensation offered by Prudential is reasonable, and I wont be asking it 
to do anything else.
Ref: DRN04061993my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0406199