K821x#15complaint
Ms N originally complained about  the advice  she received in 2008 from Lighthouse  Advisory 
Services Limited to transfer  her existing pensions to a new pension.  She says she was not 
told about the fund charges and trail commission that would be applied, or that she could 
have transferred her pensions to her existing occupational  pension  without incurring such 
charges. She says that no advice or contact from Lighthouse  was made for ten years  - 
despite a significant amount of charges being  applied. She believed she has lost money  
because of the charges being applied and the lack of active management.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 22 January 2021. A copy is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out why I was intending to uphold  the 
complaint.
Ms N accepted the provisional decision.  She also:
Said that the GPPP still exists. The GPPP was previously transferred to Aviva.
Confirmed her AXA pension had been  switched  to one of her Aviva  pensions in 2018.  
So she appreciated that the compensation calculation might have to change.
Asked how a notional value might  be calculated and who would  verify  it.
Said that the transfer of the three pensions to the GPPP, had it taken place in 2008, 
would have been at no cost to her. So there should have  been no deduction for fees. 
Therefore she assumes that the notional  transfer value would be without any 
deduction of fees by Lighthouse (at source).
Said that any payment into the GPPP with Standard Life is not possible as it no 
longer exists with Standard Life. The GPPP had already been  transferred to Aviva.
Is concerned that she might be disadvantaged  by any arrangement between the 
adviser and Lighthouse.
Asks  that a timescale for payment of redress be set out. And asks if interest  can be 
considered as part of the award.
Lighthouse did not accept  the provisional  decision.  In summary it:
Said it believes that Ms N was in a fully informed  position when the advice  was given. 
The basis of her complaint was in respect  of the commission/fees paid and that it 
would have been more suitable  if she had transferred elsewhere with lower charges. 
The basis of suitability  is in relation  to fees and charges. I had already decided that 
her complaint about fees and charges would not fall within  my jurisdiction. 
Referred to the findings  of the investigator  that there were reasons why Ms N wished 
to consolidate  her existing paid up plans  but keep  her GPPP  separate. 
Said that at the time the advice was given Ms Ns GPPP was with Standard  Life. And 
that it is not clear  whether this is the same plan as the Aviva  plan I referred  to in the 
provisional decision, whether it was transferred or whether the annual management 
charge I referred  to applying to the Aviva GPPP in 2016 was the same  as that which  
applied to the Standard life plan when the advice was given in 2008. Ms N was made 
Ref: DRN09663282aware of the fund charges. 
Said the adviser has made it very clear that Ms N wanted  to keep her pension  
separate and that she may not stay with her employer long enough to build  up a 
significant pot. It was explained that most company schemes have lower charges but 
Ms N was adamant  she wanted  to keep  them separate because if she left the firm 
her benefits might  be reduced. The suitability reports confirm the requirement to 
keep her paid-up pensions separate from her GPPP. 
Said it was confirmed that external  funds  carried higher AMCs, meaning  she might 
be worse off in retirement  but it was Ms Ns view that because  of the growth rates  
this could be offset. There was also a wider  selection of funds with the proposed 
plan.
Said Ms N was provided with full details of the AXA plan.
Said Ms N was provided with copies of the O&M reports  which is a tool to compare 
existing and proposed plans. It has a copy of the Friends  Provident  report  but not for 
the Clerical Medical and Equitable Life plans.  
Said the AXA plan may well have had higher charges that the existing GPPP  but that 
would not achieve  her aim of keeping  her pension separate  from the GPPP  nor did 
it offer the same fund selection. 
Said that Ms N was aware  of the funds into which  she was invested. 
Said it was inappropriate to suggest  that Ms N could transfer her AXA pension 
benefits to her GPPP without her receiving advice.  
Said in November 2018  Ms N switched her AXA plan to Aviva. This is when any 
liability would end. It has not been able to establish if this switch was to her GPPP. In 
2018 Ms N referred to having  more than one work pension  so it is unclear whether 
she had two GPPP  one with Standard Life (the GPPP  when the advice was given) 
and one with Aviva.
It disagrees the advice was unsuitable. The recommendation  met her objectives. Ms 
Ns profession would mean that she was capable of reading and understanding the 
documentation provided to her. 
Provided a submission from the adviser that made the recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so My view is that:
As I said in my provision decision, the factual amount of charges that were applied  to 
her AXA policy was not something  I was considering   as I had decided  that a 
complaint about that wouldnt fall within my jurisdiction. However,  whether it was 
suitable in the circumstances to recommend that Ms N switch  to that AXA policy was 
a different matter   knowing what you are charged in a factual  sense and knowing 
that there was a better  option than incurring those charges are two different matters. 
I noted the findings of the investigator  in my provisional decision. My view of the 
complaint is different.
I do not agree with Lighthouses submission  that Ms N was in a fully informed  
Ref: DRN09663283position in 2008.  I set out in my provisional decision that there was a material  lack of 
comparison between the charges of the AXA pension and existing GPPP. I hadnt 
seen any evidence that the adviser provided any comparison between the AXA 
scheme and transferring her pensions to her GPPP. 
Ms N may well have thought it is was convenient to consolidate her pensions  into 
one pension  there are obviously administration benefits in doing so and monitoring 
one pension would be somewhere easier.  But that should not be at the expense  of all 
other factors  if there were other  options  as to that consolidation (such as the 
GPPP) then they should have been  clearly  set out. They  were  not. It seems  that it 
was simply accepted that the three transferred pensions  should be consolidated  to 
one new plan, rather than the GPPP be considered. 
Ms N has previously  disputed that she was averse to transferring to her GPPP.  But I 
have taken into account the comments of the adviser in that Ms N wished  to keep her 
pension separate  from the GPPP because she thought she wouldnt remain  with that 
employer for very long and its value might be reduced.  That is not reflected in the 
advisers recommendation  letters   its is only mentioned that the reason for not 
transferring to the GPPP is so that Ms N could diversify risk. That is not discussed 
further, and in the part of the recommendation letter that seeks to compare  what  is 
recommended with the alternatives,  it is stated under Group Personal Pension 
Scheme that, No scheme  available, so this is not relevant to meet  your needs. 
That is clearly wrong.  As referred  to earlier, I have not seen any documentary  
evidence that the adviser  discussed the benefits of transferring to the GPPP.  
The evidence is that Ms N had already built up a significant value with Standard Life 
and I cannot see any clear disadvantage to transferring to it. It would  be highly 
unlikely that an employer could reduce pension benefits transferred to it. So, if Ms N 
was of the view that her GPPP  benefits  could be reduced (which has not been 
demonstrated) I would have expected the adviser  to inform her that her concerns 
were likely misplaced  and there  was clearly  something to be gained in transferring to 
the GPPP (primarily lower charges). 
I confirmed in the provisional decision  that Ms N had said her GPPP  with Standard 
Life had been  transferred to Aviva. It is now clear  from Ms Ns submissions that her 
GPPP remains with Aviva and her AXA pension has been  transferred to it. Given  the 
passage of time it is not clear  what the charges were for the Standard  Life plan. But 
as Lighthouse says, they were likely lower than the AXA plan. The level of charges 
will be taken  into account via the compensation calculation.   
I note the OM report report that Lighthouse  has provided. This illustrates Ms N 
would be worse  off transferring her Friends Provident pension  to AXA. Be that as it 
may, the material issue is not the transfer of that plan to AXA but that it could  have 
been transferred  to the GPPP. 
It is possible that the AXA plan had a wider fund choice than the Standard Life plan 
(although that is not clear). But I am not persuaded that, given  Ms Ns objectives,  the 
Standard Life fund choice would not have met her needs.  
I remain of the view that the complaint  should  be upheld,  for the reasons  set out in this 
decision and in my provisional  decision.  
Ref: DRN09663284fair compensation
Ms N has confirmed that the AXA pension was transferred to her Aviva GPPP in 2018. So 
the compensation calculation I set out in the provisional decision will need  to change to 
reflect that. It will be more accurate to apply whatever  return Ms N achieved on her Aviva 
pension since 2018 to any loss amount, rather than interest on any loss amount since 2018.
Otherwise I believe the compensation calculation should remain the same. By comparing the 
AXA value (in 2018) with the GPPP (had the three pensions been transferred to it) any 
applicable fees will be taken into account.  The calculation would assume a transfer to Aviva 
from Standard  Life at the appropriate point in time. Ms N should  bear in mind that Lighthouse 
will probably need an authority from her so that it can obtain information from Aviva  and 
Standard Life about her GPPP to be able to calculate the award. 
Ms N should  not be concerned with any arrangements  between  Lighthouse and its 
representative; Lighthouse is responsible for calculating and paying the award. She wont  be 
affected by any such  relationship.   
Lighthouse should calculate:
A.The notional transfer value, as at the date of the AXA transfer  to the Aviva  GPPP  in 
2018, that the three pensions would  have been worth if they had been transferred 
instead to the GPPP  in 2008.   
B.The transfer value,  as date of the AXA transfer to the Aviva GPPP in 2018, of Ms Ns 
AXA pension, including any outstanding charges. 
C.A - B 
D.a return on C from the date of transfer in 2018  equivalent  to the average return Ms N 
achieved on her Aviva GPPP to the date of this final decision. 
And then pay the amount of (C +D) into Ms Ns GPPP so that the transfer value is increased 
by the amount calculated. This payment should take account of any available tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
In addition, Lighthouse should pay Ms N £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Any contributions or withdrawals should  be applied on a like for like basis.   
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
Lighthouse should calculate  and pay the award  within 28 days of date it is informed of Ms 
Ns acceptance of my final decision. If it is not paid within those 28 days  then interest  at 8% 
gross per annum simple will be payable on my award from the date the final decision was 
issued until the date the award is paid.   
If Lighthouse considers  that it is legally required to deduct income  tax from the interest, it 
must send  a tax deduction certificate  with the payment.  Ms N can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN09663285Lighthouse will be responsible for carrying out the calculation. It should set out to Ms N in an 
understandable format  how it has carried out that calculation.  If she subsequently has 
concerns about  how that calculation has been carried out then she can refer her concerns to 
this service.    
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Lighthouse  Advisory Services Limited to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN09663286copy provisional decision
complaint
Ms N originally complained about  the advice  she received in 2008 from Lighthouse  Advisory 
Services Limited to transfer  her existing pensions to a new pension.  She says she was not 
told about the fund charges and trail commission that would be applied, or that she could 
have transferred her pensions to her existing occupational  pension  without incurring such 
charges. She says that no advice or contact from Lighthouse  was made for ten years  - 
despite a significant amount of charges being  applied. She believed she has lost money  
because of the charges being applied and the lack of active management. 
background to complaint
I have previously issued  a decision setting out which parts of Ms Ns complaint this service  
could consider. In my decision of 12 June 2020 I set out that we could not consider Ms Ns 
complaint about  commission, charges or the remuneration  received  by Lighthouse. But I did 
believe we could consider the complaint about  the suitability of the advice Ms N had 
received to transfer her pensions.
An investigator at this service went on to consider  that suitability. He said,  in summary, that 
he didnt believe the advice to switch Ms Ns pensions to a new pension  plan was unsuitable. 
He said that the costs  were about  the same and there were some  advantages to transferring 
several existing pensions to one new plan.  He did not believe the investment performance of 
the new plan was relevant to an assessment as to the suitability of the advice. 
He also thought that the risk of the recommended investment funds  within the new plan was 
appropriate and matched  with Ms Ns risk profile.  He did not believe that it was inappropriate 
to maintain a pension  separate  from her employers group personal pension   it was not 
unsuitable advice  to not recommend that all existing  pensions were transferred to the group 
personal pension  because of potentially lower  costs. He also mentioned that there  was 
evidence that Ms N did not wish to maintain  her pension  with Equitable Life and 
consolidating three existing pensions into one arrangement was attractive in terms of 
consolidation and ongoing  management.  
Ms N did not accept the investigators assessment and requested  that it be reviewed. In 
summary she:
Said the verbal discussions she had are not reflected in the paperwork  which was 
presented in a way that minimised her opportunity to read it or decline the advice.
Said the evidence  is that all her pension pots were  put at too much  risk  she knew 
nothing of stocks  and shares.  There was no recommendation to split the pots 
between more than one pension to minimise risk. Ms N questions  whether the 
advice was appropriate in her circumstances.  
Questioned the information provided by Lighthouse. She was not informed of the 
risks of starting a fresh pension  where she would be responsible  for the fund choice  
which were higher risk and more expensive than other  pensions including  pensions 
she always had. 
Ref: DRN09663287Said she thought  the pension was a pot of cash and didnt understand buying and 
selling units. 
Said that there was no urgency in moving her pensions  it was seen as convenient  
she was not insistent on it.
Made reference to this services guidance on what might amount to being unsuitably 
advised with respect to a workplace pension. 
Fees have become more competitive  she has been stuck with uncompetitive  high 
fixed fees.
Set out the pension that she held at the time.
She did not wish to diversity her pension despite what  the Lighthouse 
recommendation says.  She also did not need a SIPP, deferred or otherwise.  
Said there was no comparison  provided  between the costs of her existing pension 
and the new AXA pension. She was also not asked about her (then) current  work 
pension with Aviva  and the recommendations provided by the adviser do not mention 
it. This pension was cheaper.
She would  have been better off with Clerical Medical and she had already paid the 
setting up fees for that pension. This had been set up by the same adviser.
The fees and commission  charged in respect of transferring  ate into her pension.
She would  not be able to provide the level of attention  managing her funds would 
require. 
The advice to transfer at a low point in the market may have been unsuitable.
The complaint has therefore been  passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N is correct  that Lighthouse were required to provide her with suitable advice. I have 
considered whether it did so.
There is nothing necessarily wrong  in recommending the switch  of a number of existing  
pension arrangements to a new pension  so long as there are appropriate reasons for doing  
so.
In this case Ms N had three existing personal pension plans (PPP) and a group personal 
pension (GPPP) via her employer. The recommendation by Lighthouse was to leave the 
GPPP as it was  as it was receiving  additional contributions from Mrs Ns employer, and 
transfer the existing three PPPs to a new PPP. 
Ref: DRN09663288The Lighthouse adviser set out his recommendation in two letters   one dated  8 October 
2008 (concerning  the Equitable Life and Clerical Medical pensions) and one dated 9 
December 2008  (concerning the Friends Provident pension). It was set out in both letters 
that Ms N wished to consolidate her pensions to make them more manageable. It was set 
out that Ms N had a balanced risk profile (4 on a scale  of 1 to 7). It was also discussed that:
We explained that due to the portfolio choice, there are a number of external funds which  
carry a higher annual management charge. This means that according  to the figures  you 
may be slightly worse off at retirement given the growth rates but your view is that with 
regular reviews this can be more than offset  and are comfortable with it.
I have explained  that by transferring the funds as per the spreadsheet into a single pot you 
will suffer a penalty from the with profits element of your protected rights pension.
A recommendation was made to transfer  the existing pensions to a Deferred Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  with AXA. It was explained  that this was a PPP with the option to 
convert that to a SIPP if need be. 
A number  of investment funds were  recommended,  made up of fixed interest, cash and 
equity funds. 
In terms of costs and charges, the AXA illustration  for the new pension sets out that about 
1% of the pension fund would be deducted each year.  That was plus a fee of about  £60 a 
month in total for all the transfers (£720 a year) for setting up the policy  for the first three 
years. There  was an extra charge for some  of the selected funds  but that was only in 
regard to the smaller  of the three  transferred amounts and then the funds  only made up a 
minor portion of the funds  selected. I also believe there was a charge  of 0.5% of the pension 
fund that was payable to the adviser yearly. So that would appear to be total charges of 
about 2.5% for first three years and then 1.5%  (or slightly higher) ongoing.
The fact that the pension  can be converted to a SIPP does  not make it unsuitable. That this 
was an option  (which Ms N could  decide  to use or not) does not in my view affect an 
assessment as to whether the underlying product  she took out was suitable. In terms of the 
charges, SIPPs  (which Ms Ns pension  isnt currently) do not necessarily have higher 
charges than other types of pension.  What is relevant in this complaint is what is actually 
being charged.
In terms of risk, overall the combination of funds does not seem  to me to be inappropriate 
given the assessed risk profile. Ms N was not exposed to too much risk and a balance  had to 
be struck between funds that would have the opportunity to generate appreciable returns 
over time, and balancing lower risk funds  but with a consequent lower expected rate of 
return. The material issue is that the pension  money was reasonably diversified within  the 
pension  there is no particular advantage to be gained in splitting this pension over several  
different providers and that wouldnt normally be expected. In fact it would be quite unusual  
to do so and would probably  entail  greater costs. 
I appreciate that Ms N says she didnt understand the concept of buying and selling units 
and thought her pension  was in cash. I assume  she means appreciating that her money  was 
invested in risk-based funds which can go up and down. Whilst I appreciate that she may 
have mentioned this more  in terms of her level of understanding,  I would say that leaving 
money in cash in such a long term investment  which is to provide a pension,  would  not 
generally be considered  advisable   as it is very unlikely  that any appreciable level of return  
would be obtained  (certainly  not of the level Ms N did obtain  by investing in risk based 
Ref: DRN09663289assets). I would also mention that her previous pensions  were invested in risk based  assets  
as well. The advisers  recommendations did set out the basis  of investment and that the 
value could fluctuate.   
So, I do not believe the advice was unsuitable  on this basis of risk. There was sufficient 
diversification in my view and Ms N was not taking more risk that her circumstances  suggest  
were appropriate.  I agree  with the investigator  that the performance of the funds over time is 
not a reliable indicator of the suitability of the advice. But Ms N may wish to take into account  
that the fund has approximately  doubled in value since 2008/9  so it is not that positive 
returns have not been obtained. But I appreciate  her view that the returns  may have been 
higher had the charges  been lower  I will consider the issue  of charges. 
The fact that the stockmarket was at a low point can only be made with hindsight. But in any 
event there  is nothing necessarily wrong  in transferring at any given point in time  and in Ms 
Ns case her money was reinvested in risk based  assets so she would benefit from any 
upturn. It is not that she lost out by crystallising her money at a low point. 
Ms N has made reference to suitability concerns with respect to workplace pensions. None 
of Ms Ns existing (transferred) pensions  were Final Salary  (defined  benefit) pensions and 
none had any guaranteed benefits  which would  suggest she should  not have been  advised 
to transfer. Furthermore  she was not advised  to cease contributing to or opt out of a current  
workplace scheme. 
Ms N has confirmed that the Clerical Medical plan was receiving contributions from 2001  to 
2003 and that this was a pension set up in respect  of previous employment. It did not receive 
any contributions after she left that employment.  
She has also said that her Friends Provident pension  was receiving contributions  from 2005  
to 2008 and that this was in respect of another previous employer.  It did not receive any 
contributions after she left that employment. 
Ms N has said that she has a current Aviva pension  to which  employer and employee 
contributions are made and has been  in force since  2007. 
My understanding is that she also had a pension  with Equitable Life which was transferred to 
the AXA pension.  
The adviser set out in his report:
You have requested that my advice is limited to the provision of retirement planning only at 
this time therefore I have  not reviewed any other part of your planning. (Ms Ns Partner)  was 
not in any of the meetings  and I have therefore not taken his affairs  into account, however I 
would recommend that we review all your planning  jointly when you are both able to attend a 
review planning  meeting.
Our meeting was convened as you wanted  to consolidate the pensions  to make  them  more 
manageable. You have  3 pensions from previous jobs and you wanted  to simplify these into 
a single pot. For the purposes of this letter, we have only approached Equitable Life 
(protected rights)  and Clerical Medical.  As we only found out that you also had a Friends  
Provident pension  at the time we were  making  the applications, I have agreed that
we will review this in the coming  month  when all the information comes  back from the 
provider.
Ref: DRN096632810And:
To consolidate the pensions so that you only has (sic) the company GPP with Standard  Life 
and the transfer  pot from your other pension plans. The reason for keeping  Standard  Life is 
that the company will match the contributions - reason for not putting the pension transfer 
into Standard  Life was she wanted to diversify the pension  with one other provider.
The adviser set out projections which showed  that the returns  were  higher if the pensions 
were transferred. Lighthouse has said that this took into account the charges for all the 
different pensions. But the various  charges are not set out in the advisers recommendations 
and it is not clear what comparisons were run and how. I have  not seen where he obtained 
the existing pension charges from or where that is documented. 
Ms N has been able to provide some documentation  for her GPPP and other  pensions:  
Aviva GPPP:
Ms N has supplied a letter  from Aviva of 5 September 2016 that sets out that her 
administration charge is falling from 0.5% to 0.39%. So it would appear that, when the 
advice was given,  the charge was 0.5% a year. In addition the documentation  sets out that, 
because Ms N is a member of her GPPP, there  will not be any additional fund charges 
(unless particular funds are chosen). This is supported by statements Ms N has supplied  
which show a fund manager charge of zero in 2018 and 0.02 in 2019. The adviser does not 
appear to have sought information on this scheme  when providing  advice  at least  it is not 
mentioned in his report and it is not set out what the charges were.
Clerical Medical:
The fund value was said to be about  £40,000 in 2008.
The documentation  would  seem  to show that the annual management charge was 0.1%, 
with the addition of fund charges. Although the fund charges in 2008 are not available, the 
current fund range shows at least a 1% yearly charge on investment  funds   some are 
higher. It is unclear  what funds Mrs N was invested in.  
Ms N says this was an existing private pension from the time when she worked  at a previous 
employer. No contributions were  paid after she left that firm. 
The charges  are not set out in the advisers  report or compared  with the new pension.
Equitable Life:
The fund value was said to be about  £22,000 in 2008.
Ms Ns Equitable Life pension was invested in its With Profits  fund. The documentation 
which Ms N has supplied  indicates an ongoing yearly charge of 0.5%.  However she says this 
dates from around 2000, so it is unclear  if this was what was being  charged in 2008  when  
the advice was given. I note that the adviser said there would be a reduction of the pension  
value on transferring out  but no amount has been  set out. Mrs N has said when making 
her complaint that the main  reason  for transferring out of Equitable  was its uncertain future. 
And there were ongoing concerns of this nature at the time  so that might have been  a 
Ref: DRN096632811motivation. However  it would have been appropriate  to set out what  the difference in charges 
was between this pension and the destination pension, plus whatever reduction would be 
applied, so that Ms N could make an informed decision.  
Friends Provident:
The documentation  Ms N has produced  would  appear to show  an annual  management 
charge of 0.85% and confirmation  that there are no other charges. 
This is not set out in the advisers report and there  is no comparison  between the new 
pension and that being transferred. 
Overall, there is no discussion or comparison in the advisers recommendation report  about 
the costs and charges of the switch. Importantly it is not set out what  the existing charges 
are so Ms N can make an informed decision as to whether to transfer. There  is only a 
projection of what the new and existing pensions would be worth in future. This shows that 
Ms N would have a higher value under the new scheme but it is unclear how this was arrived  
at  especially  considering that the charges would appear to be higher under the new 
pension than the existing pensions. Reference  is made to illustrations  provided  by the new 
pension provider but they do not set out any comparison  information.  
Furthermore there is little information about  Ms Ns GPPP,  apart  from that it exists. The 
adviser does not appear to have sought any information about the operation  of that scheme  
or its charges. As discussed,  those charges were very low, especially in comparison with the 
pension that was recommended. It seems to me that the adviser should have considered the 
option of transferring the existing pensions to Ms Ns GPPP  and the evidence  does  not 
suggest that he did, apart from dismissing  it because Ms N preferred diversification (which 
she disputes). This would have been likely the best option  considering the apparent desire 
to consolidate  and the low charges. That would have been  in Ms Ns best interests.  
If it was the case that Ms N wished to keep these  pensions  or this pension  value  apart from 
her GPPP for diversification  as is suggested  in the advisers report, then she appears  to 
have made  that decision  without  being  informed what the disadvantages of that were. If she 
had been fully informed then I believe it is more  likely than not that her decision would  have 
been different  and she would have opted for a transfer to her GPPP.  
I therefore currently intend to uphold this complaint  on that basis.
fair compensation
As my view is that Ms N should have been advised  to switch the three pensions to her 
GPPP in 2008,  and she would have opted  for that if fully informed, I will suggest redress that 
compares the value of the AXA pension with that of the GPPP  had the transfers been made 
to it.
This is on the assumption that this GPPP still exists  and Ms N has retained her AXA 
pension. Ms N has said that previously her employer changed the GPPP  provider from 
Standard Life to Aviva and her Standard Life pension  was switched to Aviva. Contributions  
are being  made to Aviva. 
In summary,  Lighthouse  should:
Ref: DRN0966328121.Obtain or calculate the notional transfer value, as at the date of my Final 
Decision, that the three pensions would have been  worth if they had been  
transferred instead to the GPPP in 2008.   
2.Obtain the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Ms Ns AXA pension,  
including any outstanding charges. 
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Ms Ns GPPP so that the transfer  value is 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
Ms N could then  transfer  her AXA pension  to her GPPP if she wishes.
In addition,  Lighthouse should:
4.Pay Ms N £300  for the trouble and upset caused.
Any contributions or withdrawals should  be applied on a like for like basis.
  
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
my provisional decision
I uphold the complaint and currently intend to make  the award detailed above.  
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0966328