K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the amount of compensation paid by Aviva  Insurance  Limited (Aviva) 
for a mis-sold payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy she had associated  with a 
catalogue account.
background
Mrs C had a Very catalogue account  and on 5 January 1999 she took out a PPI policy 
alongside the account. Mrs C has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold. Aviva  has 
accepted responsibility for the PPI complaint and upheld  that the PPI was mis-sold. It 
originally offered and paid £3,186.99,  after tax, in compensation.  
Mrs C wasnt happy that the compensation had been calculated correctly  and brought  her 
complaint to this service.  When  investigating  the complaint Aviva  indicated that Mrs C had 
two store  accounts  and both had PPI associated with them. The mis-sale complaints for 
each of the different accounts  therefore  needed  to be dealt with separately. 
When working out the compensation  for the Very account Aviva  had made a deduction  for a 
claim made on the PPI policy. However  claims had been made  on both policies for each of 
the separate accounts and Aviva  had mistakenly  deducted both the claim amounts for each 
account from the Very account compensation. It apologised and offered to refund a further 
£73.23, which was the claim amount  wrongly deducted, plus 8% simple interest on this extra  
amount.
Our adjudicator said what Aviva had now offered in total was fair compensation for the      
mis-sold PPI on the Very account. Mrs C remained unhappy as she said she had never  
made claims  on either account. So she asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C had two main  issues  with the compensation that was offered for the mis-sold PPI with 
her Very account and was also unhappy  with the way her complaint had been  handled.  One 
of Mrs Cs concerns related to the premiums charged for the PPI on the account,  as in the 
letter explaining  the compensation Aviva had said this amount was zero.
Full statements of the account have been provided and it is clear the total premiums ever 
paid whilst the PPI was active were £27.42. The statements also show  that this amount was 
refunded to the account in 2012,  thus removing  all the premiums from the balance.  So the 
amount now due to be returned for the premiums paid is zero as these have already been  
refunded. 
But interest and charges  to the account  caused by these premiums, plus compensatory  
interest at 8% simple  each year for any time Mrs C was out of pocket for the PPI costs, 
needed to be worked out using the premiums paid. This would then be the compensation 
due to Mrs C to put her as far as possible  back in the position she would have  been  if she 
had not taken out the PPI. 
Ref: DRN07527522Looking at what Aviva has done  in calculating  the account interest and compensatory  
interest seem in line with what I would  expect. So I think the calculation  carried out by Aviva  
to reach  the total compensation amount due is fair.
The second  issue  Mrs C has is in relation to the deduction of the claim amount. She says 
she didnt make any claims on the policy so nothing should have been deducted for any 
claims.
When this deduction  of the claim  was raised with Aviva, it realised it had deducted a total 
amount for claims of £228.02.  But this was the total amount for claims made on the two 
different PPI policies Mrs C had. The claim amount paid out by the PPI policy  on her Very 
account was only £154.79. The additional  amount of £73.23  was for a claim made on her 
other catalogue account which also had a PPI policy. But the policies were on separate  
accounts and therefore only the claim made  on the PPI policy  for the Very account should 
have been deducted from the compensation due for the mis-sold  PPI on the Very account.
When Aviva  realised its error it offered to refund directly to Mrs C the £73.23 plus 8% simple 
interest for the time she had been  out of pocket. 
I have looked  at the account statement records for Mrs Cs accounts and I can see in the 
notes on her catalogue account, not the Very account, it states that Mrs C requested a claim 
form in November 1999 as she had been  made  redundant  on 12 November 1999. On her 
Very account  there is a request for a complaint form noted in January 2000. 
When claims on insurance policies are made, payment is not always made immediately as 
these can take some time to process.  I note that a payment was made into Mrs Cs Very 
account on 10 April 2000 for £154.79  which is indicated  as an Insurance  Claim Payment by 
the reference code. So I am satisfied Mrs C was paid a claim for this amount by her PPI 
policy.
I note Mrs C has submitted evidence to show she had no medical conditions that would have 
caused her to be off work in early  2000 which could have caused  a claim for sickness to be 
made. 
Mrs C also says she has not been  made redundant and has provided evidence about  her 
employment. This evidence indicates that she was employed from 29 November 1999  to the 
end of 2008 by the same  company. This information  about  her employment does not conflict  
with the note on her catalogue account that she was made redundant on 12 November 1999 
and requested a claim form. She clearly did change her employment in November 1999 as 
evidenced by the employment documents that she has provided.
Claims can be made retrospectively so it is quite  reasonable to assume  Mrs C made her 
claim on the policy a little time after November 1999  when she was made redundant. I am 
not assessing any details of the terms and conditions relating to the claim and any deferral 
periods before claims can be submitted and be successful.  It is unclear  from the information  
I have seen how long Mrs C was unemployed and if a claim on the policy  should have been  
successful and the right amount paid. But I am satisfied a claim was made and upheld and 
payment for the claim paid to the account. And the evidence provided by both parties  does 
not conflict or indicate that Mrs C wasnt unemployed for at least a time in November  1999.
Ref: DRN07527523I have also noted  on other  complaints Mrs C has submitted to this service, against different  
businesses, that reference is made to unemployment/voluntary  unemployment claims on 
other policies in the period between  November 1999  and November 2000. 
Taking all the evidence into account, including  Mrs Cs evidence about  her employment, I 
am satisfied  that it is most likely Mrs C was made  redundant in 1999 and her claim on the 
PPI policy  connected  with her Very account related to this. 
Mrs C may have  forgotten about  making the claim but the records  are clear that a claim was 
paid to her account  in April 2000.  If Mrs C hadnt  had the PPI policy she would  not have 
been able to make the claim and so it is fair that Aviva deducts this claim amount of £154.79 
from the total compensation she was due.
I have also noted  Mrs Cs points about  poor service and the length of time it took for her to 
receive her compensation cheque. As has been  explained to Mrs C, this service is not here 
to punish businesses but to ensure that fair compensation is paid where appropriate. Aviva 
offered an additional £50 for the poor service  issues and I think that is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above Im satisfied  that what Aviva Insurance Limited  has 
now offered to settle Mrs Cs complaint about  the mis-sold PPI policy  with her Very account 
is fair. So Im not telling it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0752752