K820x#14Complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC should have  done more to recover  his funds  when he was 
the victim of a scam and that it should  reimburse him his lost money.
Background
On 5 June 2018 Mr M authorised an online payment, via a machine in a Barclays  branch, of 
£1,090 to what he believed was a travel agent for some airline tickets. He contacted  
Barclays on 8 June  2018 to confirm hed been  the victim of a scam after the tickets  didnt  
arrive. 
Barclays contacted  the beneficiary bank (the bank used by the scammer) on 9 June 2018 to 
try and recover Mr Ms funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank advised that no funds 
remained. Barclays informed Mr M that it was unable  to do anything further to recover the 
funds.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr M complained  to us. Our adjudicator  didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think  Barclays  ought to have done  more 
to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances.  And they felt Barclays  
had done enough to try and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the case  was passed to me to review 
afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at laws that a banks  expected  to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And Ive taken that into 
account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN08834882And, as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr M when  he transferred £1,090, or whether it should have done  more than it did. 
Im very sorry to see that Mr M lost this money.  But, having looked  at the circumstances, I do 
think Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in allowing the money  to leave Mr Ms account. 
And I think it took appropriate  steps  to try and recover funds from the beneficiary bank. So, I 
dont believe  it needs to reimburse  Mr M for the money he lost. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms accepted that he authorised the transfer  himself. Because  of this, Barclays  had an 
obligation to follow Mr Ms instruction. But there  are some situations in which  it should  
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  From  what Ive seen, there isnt anything remarkable about 
the payment in terms of either its value or the payment type that ought to have caused 
Barclays to be suspicious.
Ive taken into account that Mr M visited a branch to make the payment. But I cant see that 
he had any direct contact with the staff there  other than to assist  him in using one of its 
machines to make the transfer. So, I dont  think Barclays had any reason to suspect  Mr M 
was being scammed.  
Mr M contacted Barclays on 8 June 2018  when he became aware that hed been  the victim 
of a scam   three days after authorising the payment.  Barclays raised a scam complaint and 
contacted the beneficiary bank the next day to request a return  of the funds. Unfortunately, 
the beneficiary bank  eventually  confirmed  that no funds remained.  I dont  find that surprising 
given how quickly scammers typically withdraw  funds. 
Ref: DRN08834883Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the beneficiary 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays, and it wouldnt have unrestricted access  to 
that information. So, contacting the beneficiary bank to try and retrieve the money was all 
Barclays could do to help Mr M at that stage.
I note Mr M says his friend, who also fell victim to the same scam,  was reimbursed for their 
losses, meaning Mr M should be reimbursed too. But I dont know the circumstances of his 
friends case and so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on it. 
While I appreciate Mr Ms been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Barclays  decision 
not to refund  him in this instance  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this 
because it followed Mr Ms instruction to make  the payment  and I havent  seen  any reason 
why it shouldnt have  done that. And I dont  think hes lost out as a result of Barclays 
attempts to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2020.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0883488