K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y is unhappy with what The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) has offered to pay 
following her complaint about  the commission it got when  it sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 1996, Mrs Y bought a PPI policy alongside her credit card.  The policy  was cancelled in 
2010.
In 2012, Mrs Y complained to RBS that the policy  was mis-sold. RBS wrote to Mrs Y in 
July 2012 explaining that it didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. 
In November 2017 RBS wrote  to Mrs Y explaining  that she could be owed some 
compensation in relation to the level commission and profit share it received on her PPI 
policy. This was because the financial  regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  had 
issued new rules and guidance about  how businesses  should handle PPI complaints 
following a Supreme Court case.
Mrs Y asked RBS to look at the sale of her PPI policy again, and to consider whether she 
was owed any compensation for the level of commission RBS received  and didnt tell her 
about.
On 17 April 2018 RBS wrote to Mrs Y saying that it would undertake  a full investigation into 
how the PPI was sold. 
Two days later, on 19 April 2018  RBS wrote to Mrs Y explaining  that it had finished its review  
of her complaint about the commission it received on her PPI policy.  RBS explained it got a 
high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - that it 
should have told Mrs Y about.  Because it didnt tell Mrs Y, it says that this created an unfair 
relationship. To put things right, RBS offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. 
RBS worked out that it owed Mrs Y £182.42 in compensation.
Unhappy, Mrs Y brought her complaint to our service. Mrs Y said RBS hadnt responded 
about whether  the policy was mis-sold. 
Mrs Y was also unhappy with the amount RBS had offered as compensation for the 
commission it received. Mrs Y explained that someone at RBS had told her that her offer of 
compensation was for 2001 until 2010.  As she had the policy  from 1996,  Mrs Y thought RBS 
had got its offer wrong.
When the complaint  was brought to our service,  RBS explained  it didnt think  we could look 
at the sale of the PPI policy as it wasnt referred to us within  the time limits that apply. Mrs Y 
had complained in 2012 about the sale of the PPI policy and RBS had issued its response.  
Its response set out that Mrs Y had six months  in which  to refer her complaint to our service. 
As she didnt, RBS said it didnt think we should  look at the complaint about the sale of the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN00303582RBS also explained  that it felt its offer of compensation for the commission was fair and 
included the entire policy  duration  from 1996 until 2010. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. They agreed that we couldnt  look at the 
mis-sale aspect of Mrs Ys complaint  as it wasnt brought in time. They also considered 
RBSs offer of compensation  for the commission was fair.
Mrs Y, because  of what she had been  told by RBS, still thought RBSs offer wasnt  right and 
didnt go back to 1996. 
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to clarify what I am able to look at within this decision. 
As RBS investigated Mrs Ys mis-sale  complaint in 2012 and the complaint wasnt  referred to 
us within  six months  the rules under which I operate mean I am unable to consider the sale 
of the PPI policy. 
I would like to add that RBS wrote  to Mrs Y in 2017  explaining that she could  be owed 
compensation in relation to the commission it received from her PPI policy. Mrs Y responded 
asking for that to be looked into. But Mrs Y did also ask for the sale of her PPI policy  to be 
looked at again. 
It wasnt helpful that RBS wrote out to her on 17 April 2018 explaining it would undertake  a 
full investigation  of the sale of the PPI. And then wrote out to her two days  later just about 
the commission. RBS could have explained to Mrs Y at an earlier stage that it couldnt  revisit 
the mis-sale complaint as it had already  looked  at it in 2012.
So I can see why Mrs Y raised that concern  when  she brought  the complaint to our service.
But hopefully, through our adjudicator  and subsequently now through  this decision, Mrs Y 
understands why her mis-sale complaint cant be re-investigated. 
So within this decision I can only look at whether RBSs offer of compensation for the level of 
commission and profit share it received  is fair.
Ref: DRN00303583what has RBS offered?
RBS has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y. And this is because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs Y about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mrs Y, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
This is what  the rules  set by the FCA suggest  RBS should pay in cases  like this  and I think  
this is fair in Mrs Ys case.
Mrs Ys main concerns  here are that she thinks her offer is low given the duration she held 
her policy and she doesnt think RBS calculated her compensation from the start date of the 
PPI  which was 1996.
I agree  that RBSs  letter isnt the clearest   and only tells Mrs Y the amount that it will be 
paying her for the refund of commission over 50% on her premiums.  It doesnt go into much 
more detail, such as to explain the levels of commission  it received  so what percentage 
Mrs Y is getting back that is over 50%.  And it doesnt tell Mrs Y the duration she held the 
policy. So I can see why Mrs Y queried  her offer with RBS. It also seems that Mrs Y was 
given some conflicting information about her offer as she has explained that she was told her 
offer was for the period 2001 to 2010.
But having  now reviewed  what  RBS has offered, I would  like to assure Mrs Y that it has been 
worked out correctly.  Ill explain why.
The cost of the PPI was added to a credit  card.  So I think RBS needed to re-work the credit 
card account  and offer to pay back to Mrs Y the difference between what  she owed and what 
she would  have owed  if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the 
cost of the PPI. And if Mrs Y paid off her credit  card at some point, RBS should  also pay 
Mrs Y simple  interest  (the rate is 8% simple  per year) to compensate  Mrs Y for the time 
shes been out of pocket.
So Ive looked  at what RBS has done.
RBS has confirmed that its calculation for Mrs Ys commission compensation covers  the 
period Mrs Y had the PPI - 1996 to 2010.
And RBS has provided a breakdown to show how it has calculated Mrs Ys compensation.
Having looked  at it I can see that it has full data about Mrs Ys credit card account from June 
2001 onwards.  So for 2001  up until 2010  it knows exactly what Mrs Y was charged  in PPI 
premiums. And because it knows what Mrs Y was charged, and it knows the level of 
commission it received, it can refund to Mrs Y any PPI charges caused  by the commission  
and profit share that was over 50% of the PPI premium. It can also look to see what effect 
Mrs Y being  charged  more had. And it has refunded to her any additional  credit  card interest 
she was charged because of it.
Ref: DRN00303584so what about  compensation for the period 1996  to 2001?
Because RBS has data from 2001,  it has used this to help it work  out compensation for the 
period 1996 to 2001. It has taken the first 12 months statement data that it does hold and it 
has taken an average of that first 12 months to work  out an average balance  that it can use 
as a starting point in 2001. It then has taken  that average balance  and assumes Mrs Ys 
balance increases steadily to this average  from the start of the card. RBS has used this to 
work out compensation for the period where  it doesnt know what  her balance  or spend on 
the card was. 
This wont accurately  reflect how Mrs Y used her card but in the absence of full data, this is a 
fair way to go about ensuring Mrs Y hasnt lost out.
Mrs Ys general concern  that the compensation is low given the duration  she held the policy?
Mrs Y thinks  the compensation is low given how long she had the card.  But looking at how 
Mrs Y used the card, I see she usually owed less than £500 and she often repaid the card in 
full each month. PPI is charged based on the outstanding balance  when RBS produced  the 
statement. So if there isnt a balance to protect  or there is a low balance, the PPI that RBS 
charged would have also been low. And in months where Mrs Y repaid  the balance  in full, 
she wasnt charged any interest.
Because of this, and over the lifetime Mrs Y held this policy, she wasnt ever charged  that 
much for the PPI. And this will of course  be reflected in how much commission 
compensation RBS has to pay. As it only has to pay back  the percentage of the premium  
that is over 50%.
In total RBS has worked out that it charged  Mrs Y £86.05 because of the unfair level of 
commission and profit share. It also charged  an extra  £10.91 in interest on that amount. And 
finally, when Mrs Y paid more to the account than she needed to RBS has added  additional  
interest  the rate is 8% simple a year  to compensate Mrs Y for the time shes been  out of 
pocket. For this RBS has offered £85.46  (net).  Based on what Ive seen, I think thats right.
Altogether, RBS has offered Mrs Y £182.42. In all the circumstances I think  what  RBS has 
offered is fair and is what Id expect RBS to do in cases like this.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has offered fair compensation 
for the commission it got from the PPI.  
I am unsure as to whether this has been paid. If it hasnt, The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc 
should go ahead and pay Mrs Y, ensuring  the compensation is brought  up to date. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0030358