K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complained about a number  of issues relating to his pension  provision and the 
administration as provided by Phoenix  Life Limited.
Background
In June 2018 Mr C contacted this service. He told us he was feeling lost and confused in 
respect of two problems  he was having  with Abbey Life (responsibility  for these problems  
lies with Phoenix Life).
Mr C told us that in May 2018 hed been contacted  by Phoenix Life asking him for 
information and permission to speak to his Doctor. 
As a consequence of this contact Mr C had made enquiries about his state  pension  benefits. 
And he says this is when  he found  out about  how badly his contracting-out of SERPS  (the 
State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme)  in 1987 had impacted on his pension provision; so 
he contacted Phoenix  Life.
Unfortunately because Phoenix Life had contacted  Mr C about his health because it related 
to the annuity  hed previously started; but Mr C now contacted Phoenix Life about  
contracting-out of SERPS, different departments were dealing with the two different issues, 
and this led to some confusion. It also meant  that information wasnt  tied together.
Phoenix Life had asked to speak to Mr C as part of a review  they conducted with customers 
who ought to have received enhanced  annuities  (due to ill-health)  but hadnt.
This wasnt as clear for Mr C as it could have been  and caused him concern. Mr C told us 
how confused  and uncertain  he is.
I am separating the two issues  in this decision as they were  looking at separately by Phoenix 
Life.
SERPS
Mr C told us Phoenix Life had said they wouldnt uphold his complaint about  contracting-out  
of SERPS. But two days later they had contacted him offering additional funds. 
Mr C contacted us as he thought the offer for more funds was conditional on signing a 
document sent with the offer and he was confused. He said he was trying to sort things out 
and he needed  help desperately.
Phoenix Life didnt  conclude it had been wrong for Mr C to have been contracted-out. But as 
part of their investigation they had discovered Mr Cs funds  from contracting-out had been 
moved from an investment based  on a balanced level of risk to some  high risk investments. 
Phoenix Life didnt  think this level of risk had been  right for Mr C. So this was why they had 
gone on to make him an offer.  They  had done  a calculation about what  he would have got if 
he had been invested in the right way.
So they proposed to pay Mr C two additional  amounts of tax-free cash plus interest.  It 
doesnt appear Mr C was told what rate of interest they applied to this sum. 
Ref: DRN00462742The two sums were to represent the money  he ought to have had and the funds he ought  to 
be receiving in the future if his annuity had been set up with the right fund value in the first 
place.
Phoenix Life calculated  the second level of additional money to pay to Mr C, instead  of 
setting up a further annuity. This is because they thought this was more  appropriate, instead 
of setting up an annuity for the small difference between what  he was getting each year and 
what he ought to have been getting. 
ENHANCED ANNUITY
Phoenix Life were also in contact with Mr C asking  for health information and other 
information in May 2018. This was because Phoenix  Life were doing a review of previous  
business. The review  was the result  of work by the regulator and the financial services  
industry and was because there had been a history of annuities  being set up for people that 
failed to take proper account of their health and personal history  where  it was relevant. This 
meant that some people  had ended up with a lower annuity than they ought to have  had.
When Mr C contacted us he was concerned about the review, the information requested and 
what was happening.
It is unfortunate this review was ongoing during the time Mr C had asked questions  and 
complained about contracting  out of SERPS, as this caused Mr C to be confused  and 
concerned about  why Phoenix Life were asking  him questions and making  offers.
In relation to Phoenix Lifes review of the annuity  Mr C had started  in January 2010, they 
looked at the information  provided and concluded  Mr C ought to have received a higher 
annuity based on his history of ill-health. So he ought to have got what is known as an 
enhanced annuity. 
In December 2018 Phoenix Life told Mr C he was due a lump sum payment of £1,270.81,  
which included an interest payment of £271.06.  Because the interest  part had to be taxed  at 
20%, they said the overall lump sum theyd pay him would be £1216.60. And they told Mr C 
a cheque for this lump  sum compensation would  be posted to him within 14 days.
This was to represent  the money  Mr C ought  to have already been paid, but hadnt as his 
annuity had been lower  than it ought to have been.
Phoenix Life also told Mr C they would automatically  increase his annual payments from 
£318.35 to £428.41 (before tax). This was the amount  he ought to have been  receiving  from 
the start.
Our investigator explained to Mr C, why this review had taken place and that it wasnt 
connected to Mr Cs complaint about SERPS. The investigator set out why she said Phoenix 
Life had decided to pay Mr C more  money  in the future and why they thought they owed  him 
money for the extra  annuity he ought to have been  paid already.
Again Mr C explained he was still confused and asked for there to be a further review.
Ref: DRN00462743Phoenix Life reviewed their calculations on this having  received some of our queries and my 
provisional decision. They realised Mr C didnt get enough of an increase as there was an 
oversight in their calculations. They  told us and will also let Mr C know.
In summary:
In December 2018 they told Mr C they would revise his annual annuity from £318.35 to 
£428.41 (gross  before tax) and pay a lump sum of £1,270.81 which included an interest  
payment of £271.06.  The interest part was taxed at 20% so the lump  sum was £1,216.60.
But based  on their revised  calculation, Mr Cs annuity will need  to be revised  from £428.41 a 
year to £443.79 a year.  There is also a revised  lump sum of £1,687.12  which  includes an 
interest payment  of £ 401.41. The interest  taxed at 20% so the lump  sum payable is 
£1,606.84. 
As they have already paid Mr C £1,216.60 the lump  sum due now to Mr C is £390.24 
(£1,606.84 - £1,216.60).
Provisional decision
I did a provisional  decision dated  17 January 2020.  In it I concluded  that Phoenix Life had, in 
general terms, now reached the right conclusions. Mr C ought to have been receiving an 
enhanced annuity and so he was due a payment to represent the money he ought  already to 
have been paid as well as increasing his future  annuity  payments. 
I understood why Phoenix Life thought it wasnt wrong for Mr C to have been contracted-out 
of SERPS. But I thought  they were also right to conclude hed been wrongly invested in a 
high-risk investment for a period  of time.  So Mr C was also due a payment to represent his 
loss in relation  to the investment.
I also thought  Mr C ought to be paid a sum of money to represent the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
In my provisional decision I also asked for more information. This was primarily about the 
interest rates used  when working out the redress  due to Mr C.
Mr C told us he was still having  problems understanding the situation. He said he hadnt  
asked for an enquiry into his health problems  and he still felt hed been  mis-sold the plan 
which contracted him out.
Phoenix Life accepted my provisional  decision in general terms and provided the information 
Id asked for. Although they made certain submissions about interest, to which I have 
responded with further information  on our usual approach.
Phoenix Life told me that when theyd checked their calculations, they discovered an error  in 
their previous calculations. Having  made  further enquiries Phoenix  Life have confirmed this 
means a further  sum is due to be paid to Mr C in relation to this. I am told it is a sum of 
£828.97. Phoenix Life explained  this was an oversight in relation to when payments were  
made, and I accept this.
As set out above, Phoenix Life have  also revised  the enhanced annuity  calculations as they 
relate to Mr C and they provided some information on how they approached this.
Ref: DRN00462744Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not changed from 
the thinking I set out in my provisional  decision.
In general terms Phoenix Life did reach the right conclusions on Mr Cs complaints and 
enquiries. In other words, I dont think they were wrong to conclude  it wasnt wrong (based 
on the circumstances at the time) for Mr C to be contracted-out of SERPS. But it was wrong  
for his funds  to have  been invested in a high-risk investment for any period of time. Its also 
clear Mr C ought to have been  receiving an enhanced annuity.
So Phoenix Life were  right to offer redress to Mr C for what  needed to be put right. But I 
dont think they provided completely accurate information or enough clear information and 
sufficient explanations. Overall I dont think  they did everything as well as they could or 
ought to have done. This has continued to some extent even once the matter  came to this 
service. 
It doesnt appear either of the areas looking into Mr Cs concerns were  in contact with each 
either or aware of the others work. I fully accept and am not surprised Mr C was left 
confused by the whole process and felt like he was still seeking assistance and answers.
I previously set out areas where I wanted  Phoenix Life to either  provide  further information.  
Im grateful  for their assistance  on explaining a little more about the calculations  used  and 
the work  they have done to ensure  Mr C is in the right position.  I accept  their approach  and 
having reviewed  what they have said, it appears the calculations do apply the appropriate 
rates in relation to interest  that I would  expect.
SERPS
I previously provided some information  that I hoped might be of some help to Mr C to 
understand a bit about this services  usual approach and what  we think about  when people 
are concerned that they were  historically  advised  to contract out of SERPS.
Based on this information I hope  he understands that it is unfortunate that performance  
hasnt matched what was considered a reasonable expectation at the time. But that doesnt 
mean what was advised at the time, was wrong. I accept the adviser and advice met the 
requirements that were  in place at the time.  I understand why this might feel unfair to Mr C 
and Ive seen  what he says about the way things were done at the time.  But I have looked 
with real care at the information in relation to Mr Cs circumstances at the time; and it doesnt 
appear it was wrong for him at the time.
But Mr C ought not to have been  invested in a fund involving a raised level of risk at any 
time. It isnt clear  to me how Mr C came to be moved  into this higher risk fund; it appears he 
was receiving ongoing advice.
Ive seen what Phoenix Life offered to do once they discovered Mr Cs investment had been 
moved into a higher  risk investment approach. Phoenix Life were right to address this and 
look at putting  things right and making sure Mr C received a payment for all loss. Having 
looked at what  they have  now confirmed,  I think they have adopted the right approach.
Ref: DRN00462745As I previously explained, I dont  think Phoenix  Life explained matters as well as they ought 
to have done; nor do I think they did all they ought to have  done.
Phoenix Life have  confirmed further  information.  I accept their calculations appears to apply 
the rate Id expect to be used and although I have seen there  has been an adjustment  in one 
of the rates  used, it appears this will be to Mr Cs benefit and is a commercial assessment 
and so I dont  intend to ask anything further  about  this. Phoenix Life are required to ensure 
their calculations are fully revised in line with what they have told this service  and what I 
have said about  interest  and any outstanding sums due to Mr C, need to be paid to him.
The rate adjustment referred  to is of course  a discount rate used to reflect the fact Mr C is 
getting the use of all of his future loss as a lump sum rather  than having  to wait to receive it 
in monthly amounts over the rest of his life. Such a lump sum is usually reduced (as it has 
been here) to ensure  Mr C isnt over- compensated. I consider the adjustment here fairly 
applied.
ENHANCED ANNUITY
Mr C ought to have  been receiving an enhanced annuity from the time he first received  his 
annuity. This was due to his medical history. I understand  Mr C didnt ask for a medical 
enquiry. But Phoenix  Life needed to ask for the information requested, to ensure they could 
assess the right level of enhanced annuity he ought  to have been receiving. And once this 
was done, they needed  to offer to make good on what Mr C had lost out on in relation to past 
payments as well as considering future  payments. Phoenix Life were right to have done the 
review and to have offered to put Mr C in the position he ought to have been in. Here  this 
was an improved financial position due to his medical history.
It is right for Phoenix Life here to pay the additional  amount  Mr C ought to have previously  
received with interest for loss of use. Having  looked at the further information provided I 
accept it appears their calculation applies the relevant interest  rate I would expect to have 
been applied;  as I referred  to in my provisional  decision.
It is also right for Phoenix Life to increase Mr Cs future annuity payments to the rate he 
ought to be receiving.
I have seen the recent communication  about the updated sums  Mr C is now due. And 
understand Phoenix life will contact  Mr C directly  to confirm this.
What Phoenix Life need to do
Phoenix Life have  in general terms reached  the right conclusions on what was or was not 
suitable when  it came to the SERPS  and enhanced  annuity investigations.
They have put the right general steps in place to put Mr C in the position  he ought to be in. 
Phoenix Life need to ensure all sums  now due to Mr C, having now revised their 
calculations, are paid to Mr C. I would expect this to be done within  28 days of having been 
informed of acceptance of this decision. If the outstanding sums arent paid within  this time, I 
would expect Phoenix Life to apply appropriate  interest at 8% simple until the date of 
settlement for all lump  sums due
For completeness I repeat  what I said before, that I expect an interest rate of 8% simple a 
year to have been  applied  and used in all calculations where there  was a historic loss of use. 
Ref: DRN00462746My understanding is the calculations used have  applied  this. Ive seen what  they have  said 
about the past annuity review redress calculations using a tool approved by the regulator; 
my understanding is this tool applies interest in the way I would expect.
I dont think Phoenix Life have made things as clear to Mr C as I would have  thought they 
could have done. In addition if the two departments had communicated better, I think  some  
issues and omissions  would have been resolved  sooner.  There  have been errors in a 
number of areas that caused a loss to Mr C. I accept and understand why this has caused 
him concern and distress. So Phoenix  Life must pay Mr C a sum of £350 to represent this. I 
understand this is agreed.
Final decision
So for the reasons given I uphold Mr Cs complaint about Phoenix Life Limited.  Phoenix Life 
are required  to ensure  they complete all payments due, as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020. 
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0046274