K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) have managed 
his account poorly  and have failed to give enough  consideration  to his circumstances when 
deciding to reject a settlement offer he made.
background
Mr S took receipt of a used car in July 2016. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS.
He was sent to prison in February  2017 and his mother  therefore contacted VWFS  and 
explained he couldnt afford  the repayments.  A decision was made to default the agreement 
and to take the car back. Once the car was sold and the proceeds taken from the 
outstanding balance, there  was about £5,000 left to pay.
When he was released from prison  Mr S made  an offer to settle the debt for £1,822  but 
VWFS refused  it and instead they pursued him for the full outstanding  balance. They issued  
court proceedings through their appointed solicitors, who were  now managing the debt,  but 
when Mr S referred his complaint to this service, they stayed those  proceedings so that he 
could have his complaint  considered by us.
VWFS said that theyd given Mr S ample  opportunity to provide financial information  so they 
could assess affordability but that the information hadnt been  received. Mr S therefore 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that hed expect  the business to be fair and to consider Mr Ss 
situation and how they could help.  He didnt think Mr S had ever responded to them with 
details of his income  and expenditure, despite  several requests, so he thought Mr S could  
have done more to help VWFS explore options and understand his circumstances. He said 
he wasnt able to influence a business decision to take the matter to court  but he could  
review their process and decide if theyd taken reasonable steps. Here, he was persuaded 
that VWFS had been reasonable  and he didnt think they needed to take any further  action.
He noted that Mr S disputed receiving several important letters from VWFS  but he was 
persuaded that the letters had been communicated effectively as he noted  thered been 
subsequent emails in which details in those letters had been referred to i.e. the default  letter.  
He thought it fair to say that communication had been fairly clear  throughout and that 
everybody had understood the amount owed. 
But Mr S disagreed with the investigators  opinion  and he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN06616642Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Its for a financial business to decide  how it pursues a debt thats owed to them. But when a 
customer tells a financial business that hes in financial difficulty  Id expect the business to 
be supportive and to try to understand their customers circumstances. 
I think VWFS have  tried to understand Mr Ss position. Theyve been prepared to stay court 
proceedings to give him an opportunity for this service to review  his complaint for instance.
But the business need a full picture  of Mr Ss financial  situation  so they can understand the 
position hes in and propose  steps that might help him to manage the situation.  That might  
include arranging a repayment plan.
I can see that VWFS have always been prepared to discuss  these  options  but theyve 
wanted to know  about Mr Ss other  financial commitments and income and Ive not seen that 
Mr S has provided this information. I can see that Mr S says he has but other than his 
testimony Ive not seen  any further evidence of this and Im persuaded that its most  likely 
VWFS havent received  the information. I think, if they had, they wouldve considered it and 
made further representations  to Mr S.
VWFS have  explained that they are still prepared  to consider alternative proposals  if Mr S 
can provide them with details about  his income and expenditure  and I think  thats fair. But of 
course its up to Mr S if he wishes to provide that detail. 
In the circumstances I cant see that VWFS have done anything wrong here.  I dont think  it 
would be fair to expect  them to have  been more accommodating of Mr Ss position  without  
being appraised of his financial circumstances. They continue  to be willing to consider 
further action  if Mr S can provide details of his circumstances and I think thats reasonable 
and they neednt take any further action.
I understand that Mr S disputes receiving some letters.  But Im persuaded that 
communication has most  likely  been  satisfactory throughout. Ive reviewed  VWFSs call log 
and can see that Mr Ss mother (his appointed  representative) was clearly  aware  of the 
default as she asks whether it has expired so that she can hand  the car back. I can also see 
that VWFS explained that Mr Ss settlement offer hadnt been accepted as he replied  to an 
email from their solicitors in which this was explained in early 2018. So I think its most  likely 
that communication has been sufficient throughout and that Mr S hasnt been disadvantaged 
by any failed communication.
Overall, I dont  think it would be fair to ask VWFS to take any further action.
Ref: DRN06616643my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0661664