K821x#15complaint
Mr A says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid,  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr A had nine loans (and six top-ups) from QuickQuid between January 2015  and 
December 2016.
Our adjudicator didnt  think QuickQuid was wrong to have  approved the first four loans. But 
she thought that from the fifth loan (approved 19 February  2016)  onwards, QuickQuid ought 
to have realised  from the pattern  of lending  that it was likely Mr A was reliant on the 
lending or was otherwise struggling  financially. And that he was therefore not in a position  to 
maintain the repayments on these loans sustainably.
QuickQuid says it carried out proportionate  checks before lending  and doesnt accept that 
any of the loans were  lent irresponsibly. As no agreement  was reached, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. Ill only be considering loans 5 to 9 as theres been no further 
dispute about loans 1 to 4 since the adjudication.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN04747442I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
As loans  1 to 4 are no longer in dispute,  Ive looked  at the overall pattern of lending and 
I agree  with the adjudicator that by loan 5, QuickQuid should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  would  likely be unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  And so QuickQuid 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans  from this point.
I say this because:
Mr A took out loan 5 on the same  day he repaid loan 4  and there  were  only small 
gaps between loans  2 to 4 - he also borrowed more on loan 5 than he had to date. 
So QuickQuid ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr A was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr As indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed QuickQuid.  Loan  9 was 
taken out 22 months after Mr As first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr A had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to QuickQuid over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr A lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans provided was likely to have had negative implications on Mr As 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
Ive considered the points QuickQuid made in response to the adjudicators view. 
But these  arent  new points  theyre  factors already taken into account in the adjudicators 
assessment, and they dont demonstrate to me that the lending  from loan 5 onwards was 
sustainable. 
For example, QuickQuid says there were gaps of 60 to 94 days  between certain loans. But 
these werent significant in the context of the lending relationship. And QuickQuid also says 
Ref: DRN04747443it lent responsibly from March 2015  and provided  information about its general lending  
process. But, it hasnt explained why this applies specifically  in Mr As case  nor does this 
information show QuickQuid took into account the overall pattern of Mr As lending. So the 
points raised by QuickQuid havent persuaded me that the lending after February  2016  was 
responsible  and Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 to 9.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid from 19 February 2016 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  loans approved on and after 19 February  2016  from Mr As 
credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  QuickQuid  must give 
Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. CashEuroNet UK LLC must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0474744