K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained that a claim under his home insurance policy was unfairly declined by 
Allianz Insurance Plc.
background 
Mr As cellar was flooded by sewage.  He says when  he first contacted  Allianzs claims 
handler, they told him to get the necessary work  done and send in invoices. He says the 
drain subsequently backed up again and he was given  the same  advice.
After having the works done, Mr A made  a claim to Allianz. Allianz  instructed  its drainage  
contractor to validate the claim. Its contractor said the relevant part of the drainage system 
was the responsibility  of Mr As local water company.  It said repairs  to that werent  covered 
by his policy because  it only covered  repairs that he was legally responsible for.
Allianz paid Mr As costs  for unblocking the drain and hiring a dehumidifier.  But it said it 
wouldnt pay £570 to clean the cellar  or £1,200 for drain repairs.
Mr A feels  its Allianzs fault that he incurred the cost of repairing the drain cost because  he 
followed the advice  of its claims handler. He complained to this service. 
After our investigator contacted Allianz, it said it would  consider Mr As costs for cleaning  the 
cellar and asked  him to send in the invoices for this work. I understand that Mr A hasnt 
received any further payment from Allianz.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. 
An extract  from my provisional decision is set out below:
Mr A had home emergency cover  as part of his policy. That service  is offered by a third 
party insurer. He feels that if that insurer had sent out a drainage  contractor at the outset, 
they might  have identified that the problem was in a shared drain  and then he could  have got 
in touch with his local water company without instructing his own drainage  company. I cant  
hold Allianz responsible for any failings on the part of the third party insurer  to help him. If he 
wishes, he should complain to the insurer providing cover under that section  of his policy.
Mr As policy  covers  him for loss or damage to the building caused  by flood. It doesnt  
appear to be in dispute that the blocked drain  caused Mr As cellar to be flooded with foul 
water. Allianz told our investigator  it would  consider  the claim for the cost of cleaning  the 
cellar and removing  debris subject  to him providing  the necessary evidence  to 
substantiate the costs  incurred  and the costs not already having been paid to Mr A. I think 
the time for that consideration to occur has now passed.
I can see that Mr A sent Allianzs claims handler  various invoices on 15 October 2014. The 
expert appointed  by Allianz seems to have suggested a breakdown of the costs claimed by 
Mr A and allocated £570 for cleaning and removal of debris. So I think Allianz has had 
more than enough time to consider these costs.  Mr A has confirmed that he hasnt  received  
this payment. Unless Allianz  can show me that it has already paid Mr A these costs, I 
propose in my final decision to require it to pay £570 plus interest.
Ref: DRN06315032Mr As policy  also covers  him for accidental  damage  to underground services to his home  
for which hes legally responsible. Mr As drainage company reported:
Faults Found: There is a bulge in the new line at 5 metres.
As you leave the boundary at 16 metres,  there is a Syphon  Trap into the main.  This is 
the cause of the frequent blockages, which are causing  the cellar  to flood.
Comments: The issues found with the Syphon Trap in the main  are the responsibility of
[water company] .
This accords  with the findings  of the drainage  contractor instructed by Allianz. He 
reported that there was a defect in a shared section of the drainage  system and so that 
section was the responsibility  of the water company to repair  and maintain.
Mr As drainage company contacted the water  company. The water company came  out 
and carried out various  works over the next year or so. I dont think  it would have done  this 
if it hadnt thought the problem was in a section of drainage for which  it was responsible.  
So I dont  think Allianz treated  Mr A unfairly  in declining to pay for damage  on the ground 
that he wasnt  legally responsible for the relevant section of the drainage.
Mr A has since told us that the water company now thinks  the drain in question  isnt its 
responsibility because  it isnt a shared drain. But based on what  it knew at the time when it 
declined to pay for the drain repairs, I dont  think Allianz treated Mr A unfairly or 
unreasonably. Mr A may wish to provide any further evidence  he has concerning  this to 
Allianz for it to consider  and if hes unhappy  with its response to that, he may wish to make 
a further complaint.
Notwithstanding this, Mr A also thinks Allianz should  pay for the drainage repairs  because  it 
led him to believe it would  pay for the work hed had done if he sent it his receipts. Ive 
listened to the call made by Mr As son on behalf  of Mr A to Allianz before the works were 
carried out. I dont  think in that call Allianz gave any assurance that Mr As repair costs 
would be covered.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but I dont think it would be fair to require Allianz to pay 
his drainage repair costs.
responses to my provisional  findings
Allianz had no comment  on my provisional decision.  In summary Mr A said:
hed been  waiting since October  2014 for his cleaning costs of £570 to be settled.
the repair  carried  out at a cost of £1,200 was within the boundary  of his property but 
recognising how complicated it all was, he accepted  my decision that Allianz  shouldnt  
have to pay the repair cost.
neither his broker  or Allianzs  agent  had told him his home  emergency cover  was 
provided by a separate company.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN06315033I can understand Mr A not appreciating that his home emergency cover was provided by a 
different company because Im sure thats  a common misunderstanding.  But his policy  did 
provide separate phone numbers for making  a claim for 24 hour home emergency 
assistance and for the rest of the policy. Unfortunately  Mr A rang the general number. I think  
it would  have been helpful if the claims handler  had explained to him about  the emergency  
cover being  separate. 
But ultimately I dont  think it prejudiced  Mr A because the home emergency section of the 
policy had a similar exclusion for pipes  which are the responsibility  of the local water 
company. So I think  its likely  there would have been the same confusion  as to who was 
liable for what.
Since the parties appear to have accepted  the rest of my provisional  findings, I see no 
reason to change  them  and they now form part of the findings in this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay Mr A £570 plus simple  
interest* at the rate of 8 per cent from the date of payment  to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If Allianz Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN0631503