K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  to Mr H. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2006.  RBS sold Mr H the policy  
when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr H has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain 
why:
I think RBS made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. I have seen a copy of 
the postal application  form he filled in, and this does set out the PPI as a choice. 
Mr H has marked  and signed the section applying for PPI. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Hs individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted him circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well RBS explained the costs  and benefits and 
restrictions of the PPI  the application form itself didnt do this fully. But I dont think, 
in his circumstances, full information  about  costs and benefits would have affected 
whether he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like hed have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. 
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
Ref: DRN04371942But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  29 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0437194