K822xcomplaint
Mrs N complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with Lex 
Autolease Ltd (Lex) has never been of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mrs N took receipt of a new car in November 2016. She financed the deal through a four 
year hire agreement with Lex. But she says shes had a lot of problems with the car and 
shed like it to be replaced.
Mrs N says shes had to take her car back to the dealership on several  occasions.  Shes  
been told the car is driveable, despite warning lights on the dashboard. Unfortunately, as the 
dealership has changed hands theyve not been able to provide any records of work 
completed on Mrs Ns car. 
Lex said they could  see shed had problems but they noted  that theyd been fixed  under 
warranty and they didnt think the problems  had been excessive. They noted Mrs N had 
complained about the poor service  shed received from the dealership and although there  
was a lack of evidence about any specific issues that had taken place they offered Mrs N 
£50 compensation  for the inconvenience shed experienced.
But Mrs N was still disappointed so she referred  her complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  his view. He didnt think there was enough evidence  to suggest Lex 
should take any further action about  the car reliability problems. But he did think they should 
increase their offer of compensation  and he thought  £200 would  be reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Lex agreed to increase  their offer of compensation but Mrs N was still dissatisfied and she 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs N so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs N acquired  her car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
Ref: DRN07079572The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Lex, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs N. This was a 
brand new car so I wouldnt expect it to have faults although some small issues may be 
acceptable.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Lex to put this right.  
Unfortunately, here we havent got much information  on the problems  that occurred with the 
car. The dealership  has changed and theyve explained that they dont have  any service 
history. They  dont believe theyve seen Mrs N in the last year and that could be because  
Mrs N has chosen to use another  dealership.
Mrs N has not provided any invoices or any detail of the problems shes  experienced so I 
have no evidence of any quality issues with the car other than Mrs Ns testimony  that it has 
been unreliable.
I have seen the warranty return information thats  been provided by the manufacturer. That 
history suggests that a lambda clean  was completed  in June and October 2018 and that 
there were previous  replacements of the oxygen sensor. In July 2017  I can see the pulse 
valve needed calibrating.
I dont think I have  sufficient evidence to suggest that any of these issues were  particularly  
significant and could fairly be seen  as reasons to hand the vehicle back  and terminate the 
finance agreement. That would seem  disproportionate.
But I can see that Mrs N would have  been inconvenienced by these matters and, in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  £50 would be enough  to compensate  her for this inconvenience  
and Im persuaded that £200  is more realistic. I therefore agree with the adjudicators  
suggested settlement.
Lex are responsible for the actions of the dealership before the finance agreement as the 
dealership were acting  as their agents when  establishing the contract. But after that any 
problems with the dealership are for Mrs N to take up with them  and may later be referred to 
the Motor Ombudsman if Mrs N remains dissatisfied.
Ref: DRN07079573my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Lex Autolease  Ltd to 
pay Mrs N £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0707957