K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with data surrounding a mortgage application. They  want  matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs C applied for a buy to let mortgage  with Barclays  unsuccessfully  in 2017.  They  
said that they received a letter from a solicitor  unknown to them about ten months later about 
that application. Mr and Mrs C complained  to Barclays and said that they believed it had 
breached their data protection  rights  and requested all information about  their application to 
provided. Mr and Mrs C said this request  for information wasnt  dealt with and that Barclays 
had also carried out a credit check in September  2018 by mistake.
Barclays said the 2017 application hadnt been  officially closed until September  2018 when 
its staff decided to close  the case. It explained that this triggered the creation of an updated 
decision in principle and a credit check,  as well as the automatic instruction of solicitors to 
deal with the application. Barclays  said it hadnt breached Mr and Mrs Cs privacy by passing 
on their details to the solicitors, but apologised for any upset  caused.  It said that it had asked 
for the credit check of September 2018 to be removed  from Mr and Mrs Cs records,  given 
feedback to those involved and offered £200 compensation. Barclays also said that if the 
application had been successful, the solicitors wouldve got the same  information anyway 
and Mr and Mrs C had agreed to credit checks being carried out. It confirmed that it was still 
dealing with the request for information under the data protection legislation.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to us, and said that the request  for information response was 
delayed and of little relevance  when  received.  The adjudicators  view was that Barclays  was 
at fault. He noted that this service  couldnt  deal with breaches of data protection law, but we 
could consider if thered been  a breach  of confidentiality. The adjudicator said Barclays  
shouldnt have passed Mr and Mrs Cs personal information to the solicitors  in 2018 as the 
application had been declined by this point. He thought Barclays should pay another  £100 
compensation, which would mean Mr and Mrs C should  receive  £300 in total for the trouble 
and upset caused by both the breach of confidentiality and the credit search done in 2018.
Barclays disagreed.  It said that another £100 compensation wasnt  fair or reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt disagree  with the adjudicators view but were worried about Barclays  
handling of data.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Complaints about data protection law are 
matters for the Information Commissioners Office, not this service,  so Im not able to deal 
with the issue  about the request for information; Mr and Mrs C will have to take this issue  
elsewhere if they wish it to be independently  reviewed. I can though look at whether 
Barclays has generally acted fairly  and reasonably,  or breached Mr and Mrs Cs 
confidentiality.
Ref: DRN01188382The solicitors who contacted Mr and Mrs C in 2018 were acting on behalf of Barclays. A 
lender dealing with a mortgage application  will need  a solicitor to act on its behalf,  so 
normally its fair and reasonable for the solicitors to be given the personal  information about 
the borrowers in order to progress the application; this is covered by the consent given by 
the customers when  they first apply. 
But in Mr and Mrs Cs case, the application  had ended  about ten months  before the solicitors 
contacted them; a mistake had been made by Barclays  systems in sending  that information  
to the solicitors in September  2018.  The solicitors werent sent the information in 2017,  and 
the application wasnt successful. While Barclays says this wasnt an unauthorised  breach  of 
privacy, I disagree; Mr and Mrs C didnt consent to their personal details being passed to a 
third party after the application had been declined. This happened because Barclays  system 
incorrectly allowed this to happen; a mistake was made and information was passed  on after 
its use was no longer covered by Mr and Mrs Cs consent and not required for the 
application. While I cant deal with whether  this is a breach of data protection law, it was a 
breach of Mr and Mrs Cs privacy and confidentiality.  Barclays  didnt act fairly  or reasonably  
in sending this information to the solicitors, even though  it was its systems that did so.
And equally, it was unfair and unreasonable for a credit check to be carried out in September  
2018. There was no application in progress,  and Mr and Mrs Cs consent was given for the 
2017 application, not later application generated in error  by Barclays.  Theres  no evidence  
before me that the credit checks are still on Mr and Mrs Cs credit records, but I accept that 
carrying out the credit check was unfair  and unreasonable conduct  by Barclays that caused 
trouble and upset  to Mr and Mrs C.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset. But due to Barclays  unfair  and 
unreasonable failings, Mr and Mrs C have been  upset  and put to the trouble of complaining  
and checking  their credit records.  They are understandably troubled about Barclays  
handling of their personal data. Bearing in mind all the evidence  available to me, and the 
circumstances of this case,  I think £300 compensation for Mr and Mrs Cs trouble  and upset 
is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Barclays Bank  UK Plc should pay 
Mr and Mrs C a total of £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its failings. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0118838