K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has handled a 
claim made on his legal expenses insurance (LEI)  policy. 
All reference to RSA includes its claims handlers.
background
In the summer  of 2016, Mr F sought  to make a claim on his LEI policy to cover the cost of 
legal action against his neighbour for property damage. 
Mr F was initially represented one of RSAs panel law firms (the law firm) to undertake an 
assessment on the prospects of Mr F succeeding in his claim. At the end of October 2016, 
the law firm advised that prospects were below 51%. 
Mr F didnt  agree with this and ultimately obtained  a second opinion  from a barrister who 
advised in October  2017 that prospects of Mr F succeeding in the majority of his claims were 
around 70%.  As a result of this advice, RSA reinstated  funding  and subsequently, in 
December 2017,  appointed a law firm of Mr Fs choice to represent him. 
In July 2018 that law firm notified RSA that it would no longer act for Mr F as its relationship  
with Mr F had broken  down. And thereafter,  Mr F provided RSA of the details of another  law 
firm, and barrister,  he wanted to represent him and RSA agreed to their appointment. 
Mr F is unhappy  about a number of things and overall he doesnt think  RSA has adhered  to 
the principles of treating customers fairly. He says:
 the law firm was incompetent and deceitful  and it caused unnecessary  delays to 
legal action. As a result  of those delays, the cost of the remedial works have 
increased and he is now time barred  by statute from bringing  part of a personal 
injury claim;
 RSA meekly accepted  the law firms  conduct and that it was capable  of assessing 
the merits of his claim without seeking  constant reassurance from lawyers  on the 
prospects of him succeeding  in his claim;  and 
 his original complaint  to RSA wasnt fully responded to.
Our investigator didnt  think RSA had done  anything  wrong so didnt uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. Mr F disagreed and raised  several  points in reply. He requested that an 
ombudsman review his complaint.  So its now been  passed to me to look at everything 
afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I know 
Mr F will be very disappointed  but hopefully, hell understand my reasons when I explain 
why.
Ref: DRN02449052RSA is entitled  to appoint a law firm to assess the merits of Mr F succeeding in his claim 
and, if he had more  chance of succeeding in that claim than not, representing him in that 
action (subject to the remaining policy  terms). 
Its common for LEI policies to include a condition like this and generally we dont think that 
sort of clause is unfair. Thats  because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer  to fund 
a claim that isnt likely  to succeed, or where a privately paying client  wouldnt be advised to 
start, or continue with, legal action.
Mr F is very unhappy with the way his case was conducted by the law firm; he says it was 
deceitful and incompetent.  He would like RSA to be held liable for the law firms actions as 
he says the law firm was acting as RSAs agents  as it had delegated authority to deal with 
his claim.  But this service  cant  consider complaints about the general  legal advice or service 
given by a firm of solicitors; theyre  not under RSAs control. They  are independent 
professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures  and Mr F has already 
exhausted these.
This service can only consider whether RSA did anything wrong in the way it handled the
insurance claim. That includes whether the advice  given  to Mr F by the law firm was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that RSA shouldve reasonably 
questioned it. I dont think thats  the case here. Mr F says his claim isnt complex  and that 
RSAs representatives  were capable of assessing  the merits of the claim.  But Im satisfied 
that when RSA withdrew cover under the policy, it reasonably relied on the advice of the law 
firm when doing so. After all, the law firm are the legal professionals  and had day to day 
conduct of his case.
Further, in light of the advice from the law firm, I think it was reasonable for RSA to inform 
Mr F that if he didnt agree with the advice on prospects, he was free to obtain a second 
opinion from a barrister   at this own expense.  If the barrister confirmed he did have 
reasonable prospects it said it would reimburse the barristers fee and reinstate cover. Thats  
in line with what I wouldve expected. 
suitably qualified representation
RSA is required to appoint a suitably qualified representative to act for Mr F under
the policy. Looking  at the areas in which the law firm practice, Im satisfied that it did have
the required experience to represent Mr F in his claim. 
Although Ive taken  into account what Mr F says about case  being handled by a paralegal  
and the quality of her advice - Im satisfied she wouldve received appropriate supervision. 
The law firms  client care letter  dated September 2016, addressed  to Mr F, confirms the 
identity of the paralegals supervising solicitor  and looking at his experience,  Im persuaded 
that he had the required  expertise.
Mr F says the incompetence of the law firm delayed the legal  action; if it had assessed 
prospects of success correctly, he wouldnt have had to obtain a barristers opinion to 
provide a second opinion  on prospects and other  law firms might not have needed to 
represent him. 
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied RSA reasonably relied upon the advice it received 
from the law firm when initially withdrawing cover in late October / early November 2016.  
And so I dont think it can fairly be held responsible for the delay between cover  being 
Ref: DRN02449053withdrawn and the barrister issuing  a second  opinion concluding that Mr Fs claim did enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success, almost a year later. Upon receipt  of that advice, RSA 
reasonably promptly  reinstated  cover.
Mr F says delays  have prevented him from now bringing legal action for part of his personal  
injury claim on the basis that it is statute  barred. So Ive also considered whether anything 
RSA did (or omitted to do) after cover  was reinstated under the LEI policy (towards the end 
of 2017) unreasonably  caused any delays  to Mr Fs claim. Im satisfied that it didnt. 
Mr F says RSA meekly accepted the law firms conduct. However, I dont  agree.  By the time 
Mr F complained to RSA about the law firms conduct it had already ceased acting for him - 
on the basis that funding had (reasonably) been  withdrawn by RSA. So, in those 
circumstances, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for RSA to refer Mr Fs complaint to the law 
firm to deal with under its own internal complaints procedure - as it was about the way in 
which the law firm had handled  his case and the advice it had given. As Ive already  said, 
RSA didnt have  day to day conduct of Mr Fs legal claim and arent the legal experts.  
Mr F is unhappy  that RSA has required constant reassurance  from lawyers about the merits 
of his claim.  Ive already explained that when first receiving his claim, under the terms of the 
policy, RSA reasonably required an assessment on prospects to be made  by the law firm. 
After receiving the barristers opinion  in October 2017, I can see that when RSA sought to 
appoint another  law firm to represent  Mr F, it requested that law firm to provide certain 
information including an estimate of costs.  I dont think that was unreasonable.
Further, when that law firm notified RSA that due to Mr Fs actions, it could no longer act for 
him, I dont  think RSAs request for the next appointed legal representative to provide an 
updated assessment  on prospects was unreasonable in the circumstances. Its not unusual 
for a LEI provider to request updates on prospects during the lifetime  of a claim to ensure 
that the claim has ongoing  prospects  of success and for prospects to be reconsidered  when 
there is a change in legal representation (even when the claim had been considered to have 
reasonable prospects of success up until then).
Mr F also says RSA didnt fully respond to the original complaint he made  to it. RSA says 
thats because  its letter responding  to his complaint crossed with further  complaint points 
Mr F sent it, and hed agreed to put those further points on hold for the time being.  However,  
complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity our service can look into so I dont have the 
power to decide  this aspect of Mr Fs complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0244905