K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited (AXA) refused to pay the anaesthetists 
contribution towards  the cost of an operation she had under her private  medical health 
insurance policy.
background
On 9 August  2018, Mrs G called AXA to see if itd cover an operation on cataracts in both 
her eyes.  She was told they would be covered for cataract surgery but policy limits  would 
apply and shed  need a GP or opticians referral.
On 13 August 2018, Mrs G called  AXA and discussed various specialists and shortfalls for 
fee-limited specialists. Mrs G agreed  with AXA that shed call back with her chosen  
specialist and procedure  code.
Whether a surgeon  is fee-approved or fee limited is important as this has an impact on 
how much  AXA will pay towards the specialists fee. If a surgeon is fee-approved then it will 
cover the cost of the specialist in full. If the surgeon is fee-limited, then itll only cover  the 
cost of the specialist  up to a specified amount. This means the policy  holder has to cover 
any shortfall.
After this call, Mrs G emailed AXA asking if her chosen specialists are on AXAs preferred 
list and confirmed she was aware  shed have  to pay for any shortfalls.  AXA replied with a list 
of specialists showing which ones  were fee-approved and which  were  fee limited.  
Mrs G called AXA again on 13 August to ask how much AXA would  pay towards a cataract 
procedure with a particular specialist, Mr C. As Mr C was fee-limited, AXA explained that 
itd only cover £280 towards the procedure. It also told Mrs G that itd pay £220 towards the 
anaesthetist. Mrs G said she wasnt happy  with this as the shortfall was going  to be so high 
and so she then discussed specialists where  the fee would be covered  in full by AXA.
On 14 August 2018, Mrs G called  AXA to pre-authorise her cataract  procedure  with Mr C, a 
fee limited specialist. AXA asked  if she was fully aware of the shortfalls that shed 
discussed previously  with it and Mrs G confirmed she was. 
In October  2018, Mrs G called AXA. She confirmed the dates she was going  to have the 
cataract surgery. Again, AXA asked  if she was fully aware of the potential shortfalls as she 
was using a fee-limited  specialist. Mrs G confirmed  she was. 
Mrs G went ahead to have the two operations as planned.
In November 2018, Mrs G called AXA as it hadnt settled the anaesthetic bill or at least the 
amount that you would pay towards  the anaesthetic bill. She explained that Mr C himself did 
the anaesthetic so really  he should receive  the £220  per eye as well as the £280 for surgery.  
AXA explained that it wouldnt pay the anaesthetists contribution to Mr C. 
AXA have paid £560 towards  Mr Cs fee but say theyre  unable  to pay anything more  than 
this to Mr C. 
Mrs G disagreed with this as she feels it was never  explained to her - and is not mentioned 
in any documentation.  So she feels that AXA should  pay, for each eye, the £220 contribution  
Ref: DRN07542602towards the anaesthetic as well as the £280 contribution towards  the surgery.  This would 
mean that AXAs contribution towards  Mr Cs fees would  be £1,000 in total. AXA didnt agree 
and so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into this matter and listened to the calls Mrs G had with AXA. He 
thought that AXA made  Mrs G aware itd only pay £280 towards  the fee of Mr C for the 
surgery and that she might have to make a contribution for her cataract surgery.  He also felt 
there werent  any calls where Mrs G was told that AXA would  pay the anaesthetist  
contribution to Mr C if he didnt use a separate anaesthetist.  He also thought the policy  
booklet is clear on what  cover the policy provides  and referred to a number of terms from it.
Mrs G doesnt agree  with this and she responded to say:
-She told AXA the name of the surgeon  and then later the name of anaesthetist - even 
though these were  the same person - before the operations took place.
-The fact that the surgeon and the anaesthetist must be two different people  was 
never explained to her and isnt mentioned in any documentation. 
-It doesnt matter who administers the anaesthetic, an anaesthetist or the surgeon.  It 
still takes time and the right skills and must be paid for. If Mr C had called on a 
colleague to do this, AXA wouldve paid the contribution towards the anaesthetists 
fee in addition to contributing to Mr Cs fee. Because he chose to do it himself, AXA 
have decided not to pay this. She feels the decision is unfair and illogical, particularly  
as it was never mentioned to her.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs G that I think the investigator has reached  the right 
outcome here. And I think he set out the position  clearly about why he didnt feel AXA 
needed to do anything to put things right. So theres not much I feel I can usefully add to 
what has already been  said. I would just add the following points.
Mrs G discussed the cost implications of the specialists status and the fee implications of 
this with AXA at length. And, in coming  to my decision, I found the phone  calls particularly 
useful. Ive set out below a conversation that took place  before Mrs G decided  to have her 
operation with Mr C.  
Mrs G. Can you give me the shortfall amounts for some  other  surgeons  if I give you 
thoseFirst of all Ive got a Mr C.
AXA We pay £125 toward  initial consultation and £95 towards  a follow  up and 
depending on what  the procedure is depending on what  we pay. 
Mrs G. Right ok I have  a procedure code for you. Apparently  you need  that so you 
can give me that figure  and thats  [code given] 
AXA Right so the amount we will pay towards the procedure is £280  and £220  
towards the anaesthetists fees. 
Mrs G. Sorry could you give me that again.  
Ref: DRN07542603AXA Yes, so £280 towards the specialist for the procedure,  £220 for the 
anaesthetist, and then hospital bill will be paid in full if it takes place at a 
recognised hospital. 
Mrs G. Right, well the operation is over £2,500 so that doesnt seem  to be much that 
youre paying, its only just over £500.  Is that definitely right? 
AXA Yes, so it is £280 for the procedure. This is why theyre a fee limited 
consultant because they can charge whatever they want.
Mrs G. Right, ok, ok, hmmm. Ummm, well thats a no go then really because thats 
covering next to nothing.   
Mrs G then went on to ask about  specialists whose fees are completely 
covered by AXA.
Having listened  to this call, I think AXA had made  it clear that theyd only pay a contribution 
of £280 towards  Mr Cs fee for carrying out the cataract operation  per eye. And I note Mrs G 
comments during this call that AXA would only be paying just over £500  for her to have both 
cataracts done so I think she understood this was the position having obtained this quotation 
for the surgery. 
Further, I havent seen  any evidence that AXA would pay the anaesthetists contribution  to 
Mr C as well as its contribution to his fee for carrying out the procedure. I think  it was made 
clear that AXA would pay a contribution of £220  per cataract operation  if a separate 
specialist was required to administer the anaesthetic, an anaesthetist. An anaesthetists role 
is very different from that of a surgeon during surgery.  And I suspect that, had an 
anaesthetist been required for Mrs Gs cataract  surgery, the cost to Mrs G - and therefore 
the shortfall shed  be liable  for - wouldve  been significantly greater than it was.
As it transpired, Mr C didnt use a separate anaesthetist.  He gave Mrs G local anaesthetic  
himself which  AXA says - and I understand - to be the normal  procedure  for an operation like 
this. So, whilst I acknowledge Mrs Gs points, I dont think its fair to say that Mr Cs fee can 
be broken down into a charge for the operation and a fee for administering the anaesthetic 
so that she can claim a contribution from AXA of £1,000 towards  Mr Cs fee in total. In fact, 
Ive set out below part of the call Mrs G made to AXA in November which  demonstrates this.
I did ring his secretary this morning and she said that they dont bill it  they cant,  I 
dont think, bill you for that because he does it for free actually. He does it because 
he prefers to do it himself.  So they cant invoice you for it. But when I look at my side 
of the whole situation, I was given exactly what you would pay which are the initial 
consultation, the surgery, the anaesthetic  amount £220 for each eye and then follow 
up. So, of course,  I based my decision on whether to go through  the NHS or to go 
privately on the amount that you would  pay and what the shortfall would  be so, of 
course, I made  my decision based  on the fact that youre going to pay £220 for each 
eye for the anaesthetic.  I mean it doesnt matter to me who did the anaesthetic. It 
didnt make any difference to me. The fact is I had it and I was expecting it to be paid 
for. 
This summary seems  right to me  the fee for the local anaesthetic is included in Mr Cs 
overall quotation and subsequent bill and so he cant invoice separately for this. 
Taking into account what Mrs G has said here in particular,  I cant  see that itd be fair or 
reasonable for me to ask AXA to pay an additional contribution  of £440 towards Mr Cs fee. 
Ref: DRN07542604I acknowledge Mrs Gs points about  Mr C being  the same person who also administered the 
anaesthetic and that she phoned  AXA to tell it this. AXA says it doesnt have a record of this 
call and it has sent us all calls Mrs G had with it around the relevant time. I dont think  its 
likely that it wouldve purposely excluded this call form its records.  Even  so, I dont think this 
call, even if it took place, would  change  my overall  outcome in this matter. This is because I 
think AXA had been clear that itd pay a contribution of £280  to Mr C for each cataract  
operation and a contribution of £220 per eye for the fees of an anaesthetist. And I think this 
is what it did. Mrs G didnt have an anaesthetist  assisting  Mr C during the operations and so 
it isnt required to use the money  it wouldve  paid towards one to Mr Cs fee. 
I know Mrs G will be disappointed  with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute  with AXA  can do for her.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint in this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0754260